ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 12 noon onwards, Mrs Vesna Vervega from 11 a.m. to 15 p.m., Mrs Jelka Godec, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Branko Zorman by 13:00 and Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 16:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before moving to today's agenda, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Swiss Confederation, the Federal Councillor, Mr Didier Burkhalter, with a delegation currently in a hurry to make an official visit to the Republic of Slovenia. I wish the delegation a pleasant stay and, above all, successful talks. [[Applause]] We're moving to three and four. It's a day's work. Within the framework of the 3rd and 4th agenda items, the National Assembly will carry out joint introductory presentations on the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and on the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. A proposal for amending the budget and an updated draft budget was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor first to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, to further explain both proposals for acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for state budgets for 2017 and 2018. This important document takes into account the comprehensive macroeconomic circumstances and prospects and the constraints we have to ensure long-term public financial sustainability. The preparation of the 2017 budget took place for the first time this year, taking into account the current Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the sector of the State approved by the National Assembly in April this year. The decree represents an important shift towards improving the quality of public finances, both in terms of predictability and transparency of public financial planning. The ceilings for expenditure on individual cash registers, i.e. for the state budget, are now set. Through this common limit, which we have drawn together for the benefit of all citizens and citizens, we must not at any cost, as it is crucial to the stability of our public finances. We respect the commitments made under the Fiscal Rule Act, which means that we follow our constitutional and legal and European commitments regarding the gradual structural improvement of public finances and the movement of public finances and debt. At the same time, the budget follows the key policies and objectives of economic policy as set out in the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme of April 2016. The key objectives are to promote economic growth and consolidate public finances by gradually reducing the country's debt share. At the beginning of our government's work, we promised citizens and citizens that we would overcome political divisions and work for the good of people to stabilise public finances, listen to the economy and not forget people in distress. The data show that some of the important objectives that we set ourselves in 2014 have already been achieved. The economic situation has stabilised in 2015 and 2016; economic growth is also expected in 2017. Although growth is largely based on exports, it is positive that domestic consumption is also gradually increasing. However, we are also expecting improvements in investment demand, and growth will also be marked by state investments related to the extent of European funding. It is important that the labour market will continue to recover, the number of unemployed dropped below 100,000 this year, and demographic factors will increasingly influence employment trends in addition to economic growth. Inflation could be estimated to increase slightly from the current low levels, but it will remain close to 1.5%. In 2018, broad core economic growth will continue, although it will slow down slightly. Exports will remain an engine of growth, private consumption growth will in particular be relatively favourable under the influence of favourable market conditions, and investment is expected to maintain favourable dynamics. Price movements are not expected to bring more marked inflationary pressures. In the preparation of budgets, we have set ourselves priorities and other guidelines and targets for the next two years. In the case of tax policy, it led to a restructuring towards a decommissioning of work. For public sector wages, we are already abolishing the largest austerity measures under the 2015 agreement in this year and in the coming years. Moreover, we have made it possible for all civil servants to make progress in all previous years when progress has been delayed. We are also releasing the compression of the salary scale, which together will cost over 200 million workers in 2016 and will bring additional 110 million wages to public employees in 2017. We have also already offered the unions a gradual release of all austerity measures by 2019, in line with the extreme capacity of public finances. In order to reduce funding costs, the Government is leading an active debt management policy that will reduce interest costs in 2017. The government is re-energizing public investment with the 2017 budget, while also seeking to promote the development of financial instruments and tools for re-financing. The policy pursued will allow us to earmark resources for key priorities. For them, almost €2.2 billion will be allocated to the 2017 budget and 100 million more will be allocated to the 2018 budget. These priorities include health, infrastructure, security, science and not least employment. I am confident that we will make good use of the relatively favourable macroeconomic situation to consolidate the stabilisation of public finances and to invest in those areas that strengthen the long-term economic and social potential. I also expect to be able to achieve the best possible results by means of the funds, given the public financial constraints that will accompany us in the coming years. This will strengthen the economy and efficiency of public money spending and thus help to improve the quality of life and general social well-being. The budgets for 2017 and 2018 are development-oriented and allow for the continuation of stable economic growth. Budgets provide a basis for an encouraging business environment. We have addressed the biggest gaps in the budgets, where public money is needed, while also taking into account the needs of individual population groups. Therefore, in accordance with all that has been said, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you support the 2017 and 2015 budget8. I am convinced that the draft budgets provide a good basis for the continuation of the ongoing development and reform processes. These budgets are focused on the future of Slovenia and let us therefore strive to build this future together and confidently, because we can and know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	I also give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Magi to further explain both proposals for acts. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I explained in the opening presentation of the budgets on 5 October, both draft budgets and accompanying documents follow our constitutional legal and European obligations and continue the dynamics of the gradual reduction of the public financial deficit. It is the exercise of economic sovereignty that we have regained through the exit from the excessive deficit process. This is a difficult task, namely to maintain and enforce economic sovereignty and requires us in the public financial field not only to reduce the deficit, but also to manage the amount and structure of public finances and reduce debt. Nevertheless, the budgets propose spending by continuing to promote growth and preserve the social situation of the weakest part of the population. The macroeconomic situation and sound public revenue and expenditure policy make it possible to improve movements in Slovenian public finances. We can be satisfied with the data that after the exit from the deep recession, which had a double bottom, our deficit fell from 5% of GDP in 2014 over 2.7% last year and is expected to reach 2.2% of GDP this year. In line with commitments, the country's deficit in 2017 is projected at 1.3% of GDP and in 2018 at 0.8% of GDP according to the ESA methodology. This is lower than set out in the framework for the preparation of the country's budget and allows for the required improvement of the Structural Fund. This also improves the structural deficit, which has to gradually decrease against the medium-term objective in a way that is in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact and thus with the constitutional fiscal rule. At the same time, the planned deficit of the state budget after the cash flow in 2017 is estimated at 1.7 % of GDP and in 2018 at 0.7 % of GDP. The preparation of the State budget takes into account the macroeconomic framework set out in Umar's autumn forecast of September 2016. In the Slovenian economy, we continue to record stable growth from 2014 onwards, which is estimated to continue in 2017 and 2018. Gross domestic product is expected to increase by 2.3% in 2016, 2.9% in 2017 and 2.6% in 2018. The key factor in economic growth is no longer export alone, as private consumption is also increasing and labour market recovery continues. In these circumstances, the national budget revenue for 2017 is projected at EUR 8.8 billion and the maximum expenditure under the medium-term framework is set at EUR 9.5 billion. Revenues from the 2016 realisation assessment increase by 5% and expenditure slightly slower by 3.8%. The updated draft budget for 2018, however, proposes revenue at the same level as originally planned, which is €9.3 billion, and expenditure is also planned in the supplementary draft budget at the same amount as €9.6 billion. On both draft budgets, you have tabled a number of amendments to the Group of Members, although the Government has rejected the proposed amendments on the ground, we have taken due account of the part of the amendments and the debates put forward in the context of fiscal capacity when preparing the 2018 supplementary draft budget. This differs from the original draft budget in the structure of certain expenditure, with an additional EUR 2 million earmarked for part of the implementation of the mass accident project to the Protection and Rescue Board. We also devote EUR 2 million to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for co-financing the renovation and modernisation of sports facilities. We have ensured spending rights from reducing the planned expenditure on foreign interest due to active debt management. Given the significant extension of the duration of the government budget debt portfolio and the favourable structure of the maturity profile reflected in these financial needs over the medium term, the effects of the reduction of government budget interest expenditure are lasting and thus contribute to the improvement of the public finances structure. Let me stress once again the key policies that we have taken into account in the preparation of budgets for both years. We can tear them down into four areas. Tax restructuring is aimed at decommissioning work by introducing a specific tax treatment of part of the salary for business performance, a change in the rate of income and income threshold for additional general relief. This means maintaining and opening new jobs in areas that are most productive and which, as a rule, contribute more to added value. At the same time, an increase in corporate income tax has been adopted for 2017 due to the balance of public finances, partly covering the loss of government income. Wage policy remains an important anchor for the sustainability of public finances. At the same time, it is important that we maintain certain restrictions also in increasing the funds for transfers of individuals and in controlling the costs of the pension fund, even though the planned reconciliation of pensions is planned. The restrictions are therefore being eased gradually in all areas, as the fiscal constraints of the different scenario allow for. I have already mentioned debt management and the limits on strategic objectives, which result in a reduction in interest costs. Slovenia will devote 86 million or 8.2% less than this year to pay interest from the state budget in 2017. The strategic objective of managing the sovereign budget debt under low interest rates is thus to reduce the cost of interest expenditure that has been paid, transfers to individuals and households since 2014 and transfers to the pension fund of the fourth largest item on the expenditure side of the budget. Investment areas are key to growth and development. The most funds are planned in transport and transport infrastructure, followed by environmental protection and infrastructure, agriculture, energy sources, energy efficiency, health care and education, science and sport. The implementation of the financial perspective, the current financial perspective, is in line with plans and is aimed at co-financing content projects with concrete objectives and impacts that increase competitiveness and ensure quality and long-term jobs. The main funding from cohesion and structural funds is for the financing of so-called soft programmes and projects in the fields of research, innovation, technological development, entrepreneurship, the environment, biodiversity, sustainable use, energy production and smart grids. Financing of programmes in the field of employment promotion, social inclusion and lifelong learning and training. The government has also taken into account the broad area of economic policies relating to the policy of the financial system and asset management in the preparation of budgets. Let me remind you once again of the key priorities, for which €2.2 billion will be allocated in the 2017 budget and €2.3 billion in 2018. This is the area of investment in infrastructure, science and employment, the means of strengthening the quality of health services and improving security in the broadest sense. Budgets for 2017 and 2018 have such clear priorities as to focus on content when preparing them, so how can we spend limited budget resources in a way that will strengthen long-term growth and development and thus improve the social well-being of the population. The areas of funding for municipalities, coordination of pensions, health care and investment were most highlighted in the discussions on the working bodies. Allow me a few words about this at this very moment, although we will also discuss this in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. As regards municipalities: the proposed average of EUR 522 for two years in 2015 and 2016 is again higher, for 2017 it is EUR 530 and for 2018 536, with the Government recognising the increase in costs incurred by municipalities by the Constitutional Court decision and higher labour costs. However, no agreement was reached with the municipal associations, as the demands of the municipalities were higher. The average as the basic factor for calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities has been lower in recent years, taking into account two circumstances; the limited framework of public financial expenditure, with a strong reduction in the available income as the primary source of funding for appropriate spending; and, on the other hand, the enforcement of systemic and implementing measures that have enabled municipalities to reduce costs and relieve municipal budgets. In addition to the estimated impact of the measures on cost reduction, factors that have affected their increase have always been taken into account in determining the average only that the assessment of the financial effects of these measures, as calculated by the municipal associations or the Government, vary. At the same time, it should be noted that the congregations carry out not only the tasks outlined in the laws but also other tasks. The municipalities also point to the lack of money for investments, both from the investment transfer and from the European funds of the new financial perspective. The reduction in investment activity is a logical result of the calming of the strong investment cycle, which culminated in the closure of the financial perspective 2007-2013 in 2014 and 2015 and a slower adjustment to the conditions and draw on of the European funds of the new financial perspective, which is under way. In this regard, investment transfers of 2 % of the eligible non-refundable and 3 % of the return will be made available to municipalities in 2017, and 3 % of the non-returnable and 2 % of the eligible recovery spending in 2018. It is also important that we begin to coordinate with municipalities amendments to the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where certain shortcomings can be addressed, for example, by taking into account the more detailed age structure of the population in the formula for calculating appropriate consumption. In the field of investment, I should point out that the direct comparison of the total budgetary resources allocated to investments from the State budget between 2014 and 2015, on the one hand, and 2017 and 2018, on the other hand, without knowledge of the structure between the European and the rest, does not provide a real picture, since 2014 and 2015 were the last years of the implementation of the perspective 2007-2013, which is an investment from the European Funds in view of past years practically doubling. At the same time, local elections were held during this period, which we know will usually reverse the upward trend of investment spending. If we compare only investment spending with the integrated and dedicated items implemented in previous years and plans in the national budgets proposals for 2017 and 2018, we find that there are more investment expenditure planned for 128 million euro in these accounts than was realised in 2014 – I mean, of course, investment expenditure as well as investment transfers. In 2018, however, investments under this heading increased by almost €37 million and planned investments from European funds are growing. I guarantee that according to the share of GDP investments in the period considered, they are returning to the level before the exceptional years 2014 and 2015 when they were moving between 2 and 2,5 % of GDP. In addition to the grants, it is, of course, necessary to take into account the reimbursements available to interested investors. Any additional euro for the transfer to municipalities, additional harmonisation in the area of pension funds, public sector wages, would mean that it should be taken from someone else. Despite favourable economic developments, we must be aware that we are still spending more than taxes and contributions and other public financial revenues. It is therefore the responsibility of the Minister responsible for finance and the Government to release any austerity measures or restrictive measures in such situations gradually, to contain new expectations and to adapt the structure of public financial expenditure to situations where the economic cycle is not so favourable. Dear Members and Members! The stability of public finances and in this context of the State budget, as I mentioned in the introductions, is an essential element of the economic sovereignty of the State and therefore the stability of public finances and the state budget are our key objective. Balancing public finances in the face of increasing funding needs and gaps is a difficult task, requiring us to think seriously about priorities and an argumentated debate and as focused and effective as possible. We have conducted these discussions with you in specific areas in the last month and a half, and I believe that there will be room in the last two days to discuss these issues. Surely we have not been able to satisfy all our desires and desires are growing beyond our ability. In our view, the proposed documents are an appropriate compromise between the wishes and capabilities offered by the fiscal envelope. I suggest you support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	The draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 were considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers and ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 67th emergency meeting on Friday, 11. 11. 2016 as a parent working body was first considered by the Government's updated draft budget for 2018 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee received 26 amendments, which were tabled by SDS, NSI and the United Left to the supplementary draft budget. Representatives of the Government, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and representatives of the Council of Justice participated in the meeting of the Committee. In its opening presentation of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, the Minister of Finance presented the news of the supplementary draft budget in the light of the initial proposal, namely additional funds to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and resolution of mass accident projects amounting to EUR 2 million and additional funds to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for the implementation of projects for the renovation of sports facilities amounting to EUR 2 million and a reduction in public debt servicing resources for the reduction of interest payments of EUR 4 million. Some members of the Committee were critical until the proposed budget for 2018, expressing the view that the document was neither solidarity nor development-oriented and that there were too many funds intended to protect external borders. On the contrary, other members considered the document to be development-oriented and reflective of the commitment and measures taken by the Government to strengthen competitiveness and the development of Slovenia. Some discussers pointed out that Slovenia does not yet have a fiscal council in which the proposed candidates for appointment need a two-thirds majority of all Members. The discussion also highlighted the delay in the adoption of the draft law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures. In this regard, some discussers pointed out that the budget is a stand-alone and independent act and the Minister of Finance has ensured that the Government of Public Sector Trade Unions will try to reach agreement by the deadline needed, otherwise it will take other measures to ensure the level of expected public sector labour costs at a publicly sound level. The Minister also provided clarifications on the other dilemmas raised in the debate. After the discussion had been concluded, the Committee had identified and did not support the amendments of the groups of Members to the supplementary draft budget. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to support the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. At the 68th emergency meeting on Saturday, 12. 11. The Committee also considered the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017, which was also submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The Committee was also informed of the opinions of interested labour bodies, which took note of the draft amending budget for 2017. The Committee also received opinions from the Council of State, the Council of Justice, the Government in the opinion of the Council of State, the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left, the NSI - Christian Democrats, the SDS, the Ambassador of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek, review of amendments and opinions of local communities. Representatives of the Government, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and representatives of the Council of Justice also participated in the meeting. Within the deadline of business, qualified applicants tabled 41 amendments, and three were incorrectly tabled in the Draft amending the 2017 budget. Introductory explanation was given by the Minister, who said that the proposal for amending the budget was prepared taking into account the substantive provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act and the State Budget Framework Decision for the period 2017 to 2019. The rules of the European Semester require Slovenia to gradually balance the structural deficit for 2017, representing 0.76% of GDP. In its opening remarks on the establishment and role of the Fiscal Council, it explained that the Council is not a constitutional category and that no article of the Fiscal Rule Act refers to whether the draft budget is being considered if it is not subject to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. She felt that the Government's absence of a fiscal council did not detract from the responsibility of preparing a draft budget. The Minister presented the key objectives of the draft budget below and presented the budget in full. The representative of the Council of State presented the written opinion of the Council, which does not support the draft 2017 budget changes. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee highlighted the problem of congestion in the adoption of the draft law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other measures in the public sector. They noted that Slovenia does not yet have a fiscal council whose proposed candidates for appointment need a two-thirds majority of all Members. They highlighted the problem of debt and structural deficit movements and pointed out that not all data, such as structural deficits, health resources or data from all four public treasuryes, are not included in the budget memorandum. They raised a question on revenue related to the management of state assets and on the level of guarantees granted in 2017. They also highlighted the problem of the number of employees in the public sector. Some members felt that the draft amending budget was not developmental and investment-oriented and did not reflect the optimism needed, and pointed to the outflow of young people abroad. The following said that the draft amendments to the budget were not sufficiently social and pointed out the state of pensions and health. They mentioned saving in the public sector and the issue of financing municipalities. They considered that the austerity measures that were temporary in the crisis remained constant. The issue of investment in infrastructure, in particular in the second indent, and the issue of high unemployment areas was also mentioned. In the debate, some members said that, on the contrary, they felt that in 2017 there would be more investment from the budget for 128 million, which is large. They said the largest number of new jobs are in the field of health care. They mentioned a generally favourable economic picture with stable economic growth and stable public finances and highlighted four priority areas. The expected establishment of a demographic fund in the coming year to provide future pensions was also mentioned. During the debate and at the end of the debate, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration answered the questions and dilemmas raised in the debate and provided further clarifications. At the end of the discussion, the Committee identified the amendments tabled by qualified applicants tabled in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not support any of the proposed amendments. It adopted the conclusion that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supports the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Fellows and Honourable Fellows! Let me briefly present the position of the Desus Group on the draft budgets for 2017 and 2018. In opening, let me say that in the Desus Group we will both support the proposed or amended budgets. In Desus, we are satisfied with both proposals, conditionally speaking. Why, conditionally, because we do not know how to imagine an ideal budget, a budget that meets the needs of all stakeholders. There has never been such a budget and probably never will be. The two budgets we are talking about today are also not ideal. It would certainly be better, more optimal, close to ideality if there were more funding and fewer fiscal constraints. As I have already said in the debate on the working body, i.e. on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, there is an ever-increasing desire, and there are more limitations than there are real possibilities for financial resources. The budget policy also does not allow us, the coalition Members, too much manoeuvre and derogations. However, the fact is that virtually all direct and also indirect budgetary users are being increased, which is undoubtedly a good signal that the competent ministries will be able to achieve their objectives. We are particularly pleased that they receive more funding from the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Health, which is a clear signal that we will continue to provide public education and public health. We are also pleased to see a greater share of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's resources, as this is the basis for many incentives and the start-up of the economy as a whole. Let me sum up three, I think, key findings that have been made on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Firstly, there is a finding, and this must not overjoy us that there are still too many austerity measures in the area of socially disadvantaged. Secondly, we can positively assess targets, very focused measures to help the most vulnerable target groups; and for the third time, particularly encouraging, progress in employment growth or the reduction of the number of unemployed is evident. In general, in the Desus Group, we do not think, we are convinced that the time has come when the fruits of gradual recovery, gradual economic growth should be felt by all stakeholders, all, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in all areas. We estimate that it would be most urgent to start with those most needed, among those most vulnerable target groups. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is an undeniable fact that the priority area of action of the Desus Group and the party as a whole is the care of the pensioners. Last but not least, we have it written down in our own name. This is a mission that we stand firm, honest and responsible. We are doing our best to make it possible for our elderly population to live a decent life, to ensure that their rights are paid, these are pensions, even though our clearly stated requirements require too many times more patience and more perseverance than we would have expected. At the same time, of course, we also require accessible and free public education, quality healthcare and health care without waiting periods and, last but not least, the possibility of hiring all target groups. Those seeking first employment, those who are older, especially those target groups that are long-term unemployed. As a result of our negotiations and efforts, our efforts will soon be seen. In January, right at the beginning of next year, we will align pensions by 1.15%. Even though the government has only proposed and only 1% of the coordination, we have persisted in Desus, weighed down, bothered if you want, and achieved what we have achieved. Unfortunately, however, we had very little manoeuvre, but despite the limitations of the decree in the framework of the preparation of the budget of the state sector and the famous fiscal rule, we achieved what we wanted. On average, each pensioner will receive more than €7 per month on his pension. Nevertheless, colleagues and colleagues remain oblivious that coordination is increasing significantly every time. I can and must, of course, attach to this, but at the same time it is necessary to say that in 2016 we started to coordinate pensions after long and dry years without coordination, after long and dry years of retirement. By doing so, we have achieved nothing but a real increase or a rise in pensions. But we're not stopping here. We'll continue here because that's not enough for us. We will find such solutions that no full-time pension will be lower than the threshold set for the poverty risk threshold. Decent pensions, ladies and gentlemen, and a decent life for all pensioners must happen and it will happen, otherwise unforeseen and drastic measures will take place. Slovenia is facing a trend in population ageing and, as a result, the poor material position of the ageing population is one of the priority objectives of this coalition, namely the establishment and formation of a demographic fund; the demographic fund as an independent institution that will provide or ensure the smooth payment of long-term pensions. This is our concern, this is our goal, and this is the solution for all the current ones, and especially for those generations that will enter the pension payment system in 10, 15, 20 years. Dear Members, in the implementation of the 2017 and 2018 budgets in the Desus Group, we want and expect such measures to consolidate public finances, which will be designed to have as little negative consequences as possible on the competitiveness and growth of the Slovenian economy; even more so that they will have incentives for this economy to develop smoothly and at the same time that the most vulnerable target groups of the population will not be affected. We also believe in an agreement between government representatives and trade unions to achieve that compromise solution in their negotiating efforts and there will be no need to use unpopular restrictive measures or laws. Colleagues and colleagues, with the desire and expectation of social justice and economic success, we give our vote in our parliamentary group to the 2017 budget changes and to the 2018 supplementary draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	President, thank you very much. Dear Council of Ministers, especially the Minister of Finance! I must say that I am personally in great difficulty, in general, in what way should I present the position of the Group of Members on the budget when I am aware of the situation that the budget act is the most important act accompanied by the coalition and, on the other hand, when we do not have an agreement with the social partners and when, ladies and gentlemen, we have this moment of 300 millionth hole in the budget. I'm afraid that's a fact. So I can't read what the pioneer services are preparing and reading about the ship, how we all have to row together and so on. Sometimes you have to be realistic. We, ladies and gentlemen, before the adoption of the most important documents, which will frame the state of public finances for two years, I have already said that. It would be expected that we were ahead of the most difficult budgetary tasks just in time ago, during a difficult economic and financial crisis that had been cut at all ends and places; when the revenues had been reduced to the point that there had been no room for manoeuvre, ladies and gentlemen, which would also allow anyone to have the smallest negotiating basis to secure a better financial position. But I have to say, it really wasn't expected that after a good two years of economic growth, we would be facing the most difficult budgetary tests when it was more than five past twelve. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that the government negotiators and the public-sector unions have failed to agree and have failed to find an agreement, to what extent, or in what way, the austerity measures they have felt most in the years to come, and I know that this is not the most popular thing to say, exactly the lowest-income public servants. As the government has failed to close these budget lines, we are now facing this budget gap, as I said earlier. We can blind ourselves, we can talk about items, we can talk about boats, how we all have to row together, but we can rotate budget lines, as we want, if we fail to adopt an intervention law on wage measures and other costs in these next days, will be a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything, we are the Social Democrats in the drafting of the budget documents, and we would like to point out that the minimum opportunities for manoeuvre offered by economic growth must be given to the benefit of the people. This can only be done in a way that the budget takes more into account the broader social dialogue so far, that this space of manoeuvre can be filled together with some potential for growth, and consequently we are also generating even more solid foundations for further talks and, if you would like, for the necessary reforms. With such confidence, we can do something good to correct that unilateral commitment or the commitment we have taken away, even if you wish, to the public sector. I am aware that it is not productive for this meeting to be born today in search of an on-call culprit, who is more or less guilty, that the public sector unions and government negotiators have not agreed. I am aware that such an agreement always requires good will, a real assessment and also a responsibility to the country. This is what I mean by both the government and the public sector. However, I also know that the budget framework has been set up for two years. We have the opportunity and the opportunity to further promote the positive indicators that we have gathered ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that unemployment is falling, that we have stable economic growth, that moment the largest in the European group, and that we also have an opportunity to invest more than it has in the past. Although we know that we are all in line together with the so-called fiscal rule, that we have a national reform programme adopted and that we also have other commitments to various European and other systems. However, I hope that today is not the time when these commitments will become only and save us so that we can rely on this document. Once again, it's gonna take a deal, even in those hours, if I say so myself. I know it's going to sound kind of schizophrenic, which I'm going to say in the end right now, but because I've been a positive person over time and I believe in some kind of agreement, we're going to kind of support this budget in the parliamentary group, and hopefully there's going to be an agreement between the government and the union. I am aware that, if it does not come between the Government and the trade unions, it will be necessary to make an agreement, in some way, a bill of sale, an intervention law, if you wish, but then, ladies and gentlemen, we may negotiate some others, and we are aware, at least as mayor, that I know how the budgets are closing, and we will have to shut it down by Members. For the time being, the Group of Social Democrats supports this budget in these frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Joint Left will not support the proposed budgets for a simple reason because they do not provide prosperity and do not provide development. This account, which is before us, is unfair on the income side and is insolvent on the expenditure side. And now I'm going to give you a brief explanation of why that is. If we look at the income side first. This government, on the income side, continues the neoliberal policy of reducing taxes on high incomes, capital and property. It is therefore actively reducing or maintaining a low level of income and, on the other hand, it is saving on behalf of the European Union's fiscal rule and commitment. It also reduces revenue through its failed economic policy, in particular its unwillingness to effectively implement development projects such as the second track. The structure of the budget revenue proves that the government favours a narrow layer, up to 10% of the population. It therefore favours people with sufficiently high incomes, in particular income from financial and real property, which is little taxed in us, and it collects a large majority of income from consumption taxes that disproportionately burden people with low wages and low pensions. For the illustration, the VAT we all pay at the 22% rate, much more affected pensioner with 500 euros of pension than managers with 10,000 euros of salary. The eternal excuse of all governments is that the resources are too small and that they have done everything in their power. That's not true. Governments are those who should raise more income in order to be able to implement active social policy. Cerar's government, however, has decided to reverse and continues to insist on low levels of capital tax. In Slovenia, we are in the last place with Croatia for Estonia after we collect taxes on capital; with us this number is 11.6%, the European average is 22.6, the UK collects about 30% of the taxes in this title. Next up, we're on our tails, as far as property taxes are concerned. On item 703 The property tax is only €270,000 in a 9.3 billion heavy budget, and even if we charge all those taxes that are poured into the municipal treasury, we are still on Europe's tail. So, Slovenia, where there is a much larger problem than income inequality property inequality, maintains an extremely low rate of capital and property tax. And this government has not taken any steps to change that. This continues the policies of previous governments, and I repeat, the under-income is not due to economic growth or any necessity, as a result of conscious government decisions in favour of capital and asset holders. A budget based on such a state's poverty in favour of a narrow circle of privileged layers cannot be supported by the United Left. That's the revenue side. If we look at the expenditure side now, we find that the budget is unfair. While the coalition has provided income reductions to everyone here in this room and 10 percent of the best paid in the country, the tightening of the belts for everyone else continues. The main problem is to continue saving in the socially weak. The budgets for 2017 and 2018 are based on the assumption that the minimum income will continue to remain somewhere with 291 euros today and that the minimum income is the basis for a whole range of social assistance and will not increase. But, look, already in 2009, the Ministry of Labour did a recalculation saying that in Slovenia it is impossible to survive with less than 385 euros per month. But this injustice will not be fixed in the next two years. We have a conversion that says that the statistical threshold for the risk of poverty is €617 per person. However, this government and coalition will insist with this budget and budget implementation law that social benefits will not be aligned with the standard of living, that the child allowance, parental care allowance, disability allowance and unemployment benefits will not be harmonised and that pensions will not be harmonised. With this, we will insist, at a conversion made in 2009, that less than 385 euros will not survive, and with a poverty threshold of €617, on a minimum income of not more than €291, with a minimum unemployment allowance of €270, in the case of parental allowance for which parents who are employed are entitled, it is said that all who work in essays or otherwise do not have the right to a maternity allowance of 252. And for pensions when the guaranteed pension in Slovenia is EUR 444. All of these are categories that fall far below the poverty threshold and about which the Government is not prepared to talk and in this budget does not in any way interfere with or allow for the coordination of these revenues. Of course, the excuse is that there is no money, but as I have shown before, the problem is that the Government has not taken advantage of the gaps in reserves that exist in this budget. Slovenia is on its tail in the taxation of property and in the country we have real estate barons that own 700 properties and more. Slovenia is on the tail in capital taxation and we are on Europe's tail, as far as capital taxation is concerned, but on the other hand, the government and the coalition say there is no money. We cannot support this in the United Left in any way and we do not understand how you can allow us to live in a country where a person after 40 years of work does not receive a guaranteed pension of anything greater than EUR 444. It is said that this country, which is considered to be a social worker after 40 years of work, gives a pension less than € 173 below the poverty threshold, which means that someone who has worked fairly for 40 years is ultimately a social problem. This is the social policy of this government, and once again, the budgetary revenues depend on the government's decisions. They can't be forever an alibi for saving on the weakest. Slovenia will have a surplus of 6.7% in the foreign balance of payments this year, according to Umar. Thus, we have produced 2.7 billion euros more than we spend, and this surplus could, if somehow properly taxed, be used to benefit citizens, but we should, of course, cut into the material interests of capital holders, property and high incomes. However, the coalition is not prepared to do so; on the contrary, it prefers to continue straining its belts to the poorest. In the first part of my position, I focused on the social injustice of the budget. In the second part, I must continue to point out that this budget does not allow for social development. The symptomatic case here is the second track. Minister Gasperšič ensured that the construction of the second track would start in 2017, now in these two budgets we only have EUR 100 million per year for investment in 2TKK, a company that is supposed to raise capital for the public-private partnership for the construction of the second track. The question of when will the construction of the second track begin, the government now answers that somehow after 2019, it is said, has moved the entire construction beyond this mandate, which means that it will be able to miss the European train. Indeed, traffic corridors are now being set up in Europe, in which Slovenia should also be placed, and after 2019 we are seriously threatened by Austria and Italy, with their railway lane. This is also due to the planning of this budget. In fact, this budget does not allow what is being pointed out by a large part of the profession and which we have pointed out in the United Left that if we really want to build a second track in due course, we should not build it with a public-private partnership. In this way, no railway was built in Europe, but it should be built by public means, which would ultimately be half as cheap as a public-private partnership and no privatisation of Porta Koper or Slovenian Railways would be necessary. But the government and the Ministry of Infrastructure have insisted on their own, and now we are where we are. The construction of the second track fell outside the framework of these budgets, which we will gather, but there are some means of further raising funds for the public-private partnership, and the question is whether this track will ever be built. Finally, I will stop at the Ministry of Defence's budget, as this is also an example of the reckless use of our citizens' and citizens' resources, which we are using here in particular in the interest of foreign power centres. We spent about 46 million euros a year on NATO in recent years. The government will now devote 53% more to an item where NATO operations are mainly abroad. In 2018, we will thus spend 62 million euros for this purpose. During these operations, for example, NATO's operation in Latvia, for which we will spend 12 million euros in the coming years. This operation is reckless, according to the estimates of many, including the new US President, it is nothing more than to provoke Russia, which is not only our assessment, but also our assessment of, say, the President of the Social Democrats for Slovenian interests, both economic and political, counterproductive – we will spend or spend as much as 12 million Euros. In the United Left, of course, we are protesting this. In particular, we are protesting in the light that while the expenditure on NATO is increasing as funds for military intervention increase, which are not in any interest to Slovenia or to our citizens, but are in the interest of some foreign power centres, we are dedicating more money. On the other hand, the government is squandering funds for, say, protection and rescue at home. In 2015 we spent 37 million euros for this purpose, for the next year the government planned 5 million less, meaning that we have no domestic firefighters and civil protection in the translation. To conclude, let me repeat once again the position of the United Left. The government and the coalition have had the opportunity to provide sufficient budgetary resources for the functioning of the country and to fairly allocate tax burdens. They didn't do it. But they did not do it because they remain trapped in neoliberal ideology and because they do not want to cut into the interests of capital bearers and high incomes. Although the government boasts that this budget is programmed, it is in fact made accounting, in principle, about as much as we spent last year, to spend this year. This will automatically transfer copy-paste, if you want, the errors of all past governments to the budget for the next two years. The exceptions to this rule are very rare, and they are not yet intended to increase the welfare of the population or to ensure the development of society, but for various unnecessary or even counterproductive things, as I mentioned earlier – for NATO, for the construction of NATO headquarters and so on – so we will vote against. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the discrimination between the 2017 and 2018 budgets, which will have serious social consequences. With the amendments to the 2018 budget, the Joint Left proposed to increase the resources for the work of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue and for investment in sport infrastructure. Although the Government opposed the amendments, it nevertheless took them into account when correcting the budget. For each of these items, it is said, for protection and rescue and for sport infrastructure, it has committed 2 million more for 2018 and not for 2017. For investments in sport infrastructure, last year we spent as much as €34 million – indeed, mostly from European funds – so in 2017 only €800,000 will be available. The Rules of Procedure do not allow the amendment of this sub-programme, so we are once again calling on the Government to provide additional means of redistribution. Even greater problems are the lack of resources for the Protection and Rescue Board. This one spent 37 million euros last year. For 2018, the government has adjusted the funds slightly at our invitation. For 2017, the problem remains, namely a 5-millionth incision compared to last year. I therefore call on the coalition to support the amendment we tabled to provide funds for firefighters and domestic protection and rescue for the following year, because, as I said earlier, priorities need to be chosen in the budget. Here we decide whether we will allocate funds for counterproductive NATO operations in Latvia or whether we will invest in something meaningful, such as firefighters and domestic protection and rescue. Of course, we choose the latter, but these are the minor correctional budgets, overall we cannot support because the government and the coalition have not taken advantage of the opportunity to fairly tax capital, assets and high revenues and have used these funds to patch up the social problems of this society and to develop it. Finally, after two years of economic growth, everyone, the people and the people of this country, would deserve economic growth to reach them too, and thus, with the budget we have, we will continue to cut off the bulk of this population from the achievements of the economy that we are building together. But do it without us, we won't support it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honorable Council of Ministers, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Budget documents are the most important indicators of the political direction of each government and coalition, and therefore require maximum attention. The budget shows what are government priorities, what is important to the Government and what is not important to it. From the budget lines it is possible to identify which areas the Government wants to strengthen and which areas to reduce. In addition, the draft budget also shows the general economic orientation of the Government, which in the 2018 Supplemental Draft Budget and the 2017 Draft amending budget raises a number of concerns about the economic model advocated by the existing government. These budgetary documents also show, in fact, whether they point to the economic policy of this government. I continue with the positive findings. We've all done something together recently in the area of financial stability. We in New Slovenia are of course more interested in resolving the structural deficit, and somehow we do not agree that the government boasts that it reduces the nominal budget deficit. We must all work together to plan a gradual reduction of the so-called structural deficit under the Stability Programme, a budget deficit adapted to the estimated effects of the economic cycle, which under the fiscal rule will amount to a maximum of half a percent of GDP. Allow me here to define the economic cycle; this is the movement of economic activity between the period of growth or expansion and the period of stagnation or contraction. So there are periods in which the economy is growing and there are periods in which it is shrinking. Economists define four stages of the economic cycle: the first phase – expansion, the second – slowdown, the third – recession and the fourth – recovery. So when we talk about structural deficits, we need to look at the whole economic cycle. And if I am already in financial stabilisation, then here I would also like to draw attention to the European Commission's document, which is the 2016 report on Slovenia, and the European Commission, which is also our European body, very clearly reminds us – and this is what the government should do more and more – these warnings are the following. Slovenia faces the highest risk of fiscal sustainability among all Member States. Population in Slovenia is older than in most Member States. These are just two indents, two points at which I would like to draw attention to the Government and the coalition and recommend that we re-examine and read this Report on Slovenia for 2016. The balance of the budget for 2017 and the draft budget for 2018 marks a higher level of budgetary revenue, which is linked to economic growth. In September 2017, Umar forecasted 2.9 % growth and 2.6 % growth for 2018. This is mainly based on exports which will increase by 5,5 % in 2017 and 5 % in 2018. As we can see, with the help of Slovenian entrepreneurs, the budget revenues are increasing. In this place, I want to pay tribute to the Slovenian economy, which we in Novi Slovenija said was the only one in the time of the deep crisis, and the only Slovenian economy is the one that will pull Slovenia out of the crisis. This has actually happened or is happening, but unfortunately, the current ruling policy of the economy does not recognise these merits, which we regret in Novi Slovenija. Compared to 2016, the estimated revenue increased by EUR 420.9 million in 2017. Compared to 2017, the estimated revenue in 2018 is higher than €421.2 million, amounting to €9 billion and €9 thousand 267.1 million. The enlarged revenue side of the budget gives the Government a great deal of manoeuvre in the search for and implementation of a new economic model that would bring about a normalisation of the tax and general business environment. Unfortunately, the government has not decided to do so, as a result of its proposals, maintaining the status quo of the Slovenian economic and financial system. Both in 2017 and 2018, we expect EUR 420 million in more budget revenues that could be cashed for a more radical correction of the budget deficit. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have a good opportunity to more manage our public finances in the consideration of the budget documents for 2017 and 2018; here again I want to point to the removal of the structural deficit. This is not going to happen, unfortunately, because the government is dealing with the tax money planned in the budget documents with a large amount of non-economy. The government wants more €47 million in 2017 and 2018 to spend on salaries and other expenditure on employees, € 184 million more wants the government to spend on goods and services. The government allocates around €120 million more to subsidies. In Novi Slovenija, we prefer to propose a reduction of tax burdens for all as an increase in subsidies to the Government. The Slovenian economy mainly needs oxygen, not charity in the form of selective subsidies. Today, according to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, tax inspectors in about 200 companies are investigating and investigating whether these companies have been entitled to tax reliefs in the field of research and development. In New Slovenia we have supported this relief, but recently this relief has made it so complicated that today companies have a major problem with this. We need a fair tax environment in which fair competition will be possible, this is a marriage for the success of our businesses and the growth of new jobs. New jobs are the best budgetary policy and new jobs are, ladies and gentlemen, also the best social policy. We must give our people the opportunity to create, support themselves and their families by exercising their abilities and paying reasonable taxes. This is one of the main objectives for which we are fighting Christian Democrats. Regrettably, however, the left-centre coalition with budgetary documents from this shift, which we really regret in New Slovenia. It is true that the crisis has strongly cut into the standard of living, the standard of living of Slovenes and Slovenians. In this respect, I have no intention of pointing to this government. Of course, this government has assumed responsibilities and has a mandate to increase the welfare of citizens and citizens through its economic policy. If we look at the seven-year period, 2008, this is the last year before the crisis, and 2015, that is last year, then we find that in these seven years Slovenia's GDP has grown by only 3.39%. Only by 3.39%! Moreover, in 2008 we had 61 000 more employees in Slovenia than last year. A few weeks ago, a coalition in the National Assembly adopted a government proposal, so-called, a mini-tax reform in which the tax rate from corporate income from 17% to 19% will be raised most prominently. The balance of the budget for 2017 reveals that revenue in the state budget from income is estimated at EUR 71 million lower than in 2016. On the other hand, revenue from corporate income tax is estimated at EUR 74 million in 2017. As a quick indication of a simple calculation, the budget deficits due to less income from income are simply filled by an increase in corporate income tax, i.e. by the success of our companies. This is, respectable citizens, the tax mathematics of the government coalition, such are the real consequences of government tax translation. It is not about any tax reform, it is not about measures that have a structural impact, it is about tax translation of tax burdens. However, to be more clear, the government imposes new and new tax burdens on the Slovenian economy and, of course, also to citizens, because companies, corporations are not some kind of entity, especially people. The fact that more than the entire loss of revenue will have to save the economy is unacceptable for New Slovenia. Tax relief is one of the priorities of New Slovenia's policy, so in the past we have already tabled a new Law on Income, with this proposal we wanted to increase the general income relief to €7,000. Why does it have to be 7,000 euros? Because the annual poverty risk threshold for a single-member household in 2015 amounted to €7 000 399. This means that in Slovenia there were around 287,000 people living below the poverty risk threshold in 2015. These are the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. This bill, which is our proposal for an amendment to the Income Law, would also increase the net salaries of employees. At the time of adoption of the bill, we could also consider reducing the wages of public servants, since in this case their net wages would be higher and therefore gross wages could be reduced. Unfortunately, the Government is doing the exact opposite in today's budget documents – it is increasing wage expenditure instead of reducing the tax burden. The increase in the general income relief proposed would, among other things, solve the problem of migrant workers employed mainly in neighbouring Austria, as the increased overall relief eliminates the need to pay high income differentials in Slovenia. Let me remind you, in Austria, the rate of income for the tax base of 11 000 is 0%, or in other words, the general relief in Austria is 11,000 euros per year. In addition, the New Slovenia proposal provides for the abolition of two categories of additional general allowances for lower-income debtors, so-called step-by-step general relief. This allows for absurd situations where a person is punished for only a few euros in salary increases with much less overall relief. Unfortunately, our amendment to the Income Law was rejected. We have tried to implement the same solutions with the amendments in the procedures for dealing with the laws of the so-called mini-tax reform proposed by the Government. Unfortunately, we were rejected again. In this place, if you'll excuse me, I just want to say a few more words to the migrant workers working in neighbouring Austria. They have now somehow sought the assistance of even the President of the Government, the pardon of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we are concerned about the acute problem of the migration of Slovenian families from the periphery abroad. We caution that on average 32 people are displaced on the basis of criminal tax legislation every day. Data from the Statistical Office reveal that in the first four months of this year only 3 000 815 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been evicted from Slovenia. This, my respectable colleagues, must concern us. We must also be concerned that for 21 quarters, this means more than five years in a row, we record an eviction deficit. And we have seen practically 16 years of migration deficit in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije we have also proposed in the past a tax burden on work, prepared and tabled a proposal for a new Law on social security contributions, where we proposed a ceiling for the amount of social security contributions for employers for four gross minimum wages. That's what we called a development cap. This will have to be done sooner or later, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to be competitive. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we firmly believe that the first reform we need to implement for the modernisation of Slovenia and for normal Slovenia is the reform of our opinion, the reform of mentality. In the said Social Security Contributions Act, we also set a lower income limit from which contributions would not be paid, which is what we called a social slipper. This would bring 50 euros more net to workers with a minimum wage per month. The novel also proposed that the payment of the Christmas house in terms of the payment of the contributions be treated in the same way as the regress, which means the exemption from the payment of social security contributions of 70% of the average monthly salary. We also wanted to set a maximum amount for Christmas, which would not be burdened by social security contributions. For our proposals to relieve the burden of work, which is one of the highest in Europe, the coalition has been ignored. When Nova Slovenija proposes tax relief, the coalition always remains deaf. When, on the other hand, the Government proposes an increase in expenditure on salaries, goods, services and subsidies within the budget, the coalition will be happy to listen. This is for us an indicator of the completely flawed financial and economic policy of this government and a sign that this coalition is not expected to implement a modernised economic model in the Republic of Slovenia. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats in accordance with our basic political agenda we advocate a social market economic model because man is the largest capital. This is what Slovenian entrepreneurs say, which we visit on our regular monthly field visits, and we have made them since 2012 almost 40. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a new economic model, and this will not, according to Umar, be without tax burdens, without removing bureaucratic obstacles and delusions and without the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. Do we ever wonder if Slovenia is an attractive destination for investors, is it crowded at our border crossings and at our airport, or is it crowded, if I may say so myself, by foreign investors? Let us answer that question. In the current economic model, the current economic policy, which this government is also implementing, is still overly socialist. That's why we're in some kind of developmental spasm, in developmental distress. That is why our young people are leaving us, going to a relaxed economic environment where we need to work very hard, to have knowledge, and the result is a better standard of living. That's why they're leaving. The government in its budget documents says that one of the priority areas is employment, which is commendable in itself, but in view of such an increase in the expenditure side of the budget, we can say that the Government has gone in the wrong way. Increasing the expenditure side of the budget in the social market economy cannot be a predominant way of ensuring employment. This could previously be the characteristic of the central planning economy, which is typical of some other times. We need a country where employment will not be cared for by the state by increasing its expenditure, but will do so by creating a tax and administrative environment where private employment will be taken care of primarily by citizens themselves. But it is obvious in these two years of government that this government does not actually have enough hearing for a private initiative, in all areas, in school, health and, of course, in economics first. Regarding the influx from privatisation, the Government states, quote: "Sales procedures according to the adopted State Capital Investment Management Strategy and the privatisation package 2013 lead SDH, with no forecasting of inflows as sales depend on several factors." End of quote. For 2017, inflows of purchases from privatisation are estimated under the Property Transformation Act of EUR 2.1 million and EUR 1.9 million for 2018. In all of this, we cannot help but wonder whether the Government has completely lost control of the privatisation procedures, given that the inflows are not foreseen or assessed at all. The suspension of privatisation procedures must not happen to us; in Slovenia we urgently need good, in particular private, responsible, especially responsible, owners. We are tired of the state economy and state banking, ladies and gentlemen. The state must withdraw from the economy, and we are in the process of withdrawing the Slovenian economy from the country. When we adopt budgets for the next two years, we also have 5.3 billion euros of state money in front of us in New Slovenia, which was needed for the recapitalisation of banks. This is the money of Slovenian taxpayers. I am not sure if we are always fully aware of the fact that this is an amount that exceeds half the value of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to ensure the sustainability of the budget in the future, it is essential to improve the legislative framework governing the prosecution of banking crime. That is why in New Slovenia we propose a package of laws to prosecute banking crime to introduce specialised judicial departments to deal with banking crime cases, the Bank Crime Prosecution Department within the specialized state prosecutor's office and its staffing reinforcement. In addition, the amendment of the Banking Act would prevent people who were responsible for the over-average number of bad loans from sitting in the administrations and supervisory boards of Slovenian commercial banks. In order to achieve fiscal stability in the long term, it is essential to prevent the repetition of the criminal stories already seen in our banking system. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we hope that you will follow us in this effort. The budget of the Ministry of Health shows that there will be no reform and therefore there will be waiting types, and the dissatisfaction of patients and doctors will increase. As the government slows down with the preparation of key reforms, Slovenian health care is sinking more and problems in the Slovenian health system will increase in the future. The chances of adopting reform are also declining with this delay, as the effective time to the next regular elections in the National Assembly is only a good year. Of course, from experience, we all know that the possibilities for carrying out a serious and comprehensive reform in the electoral year are extremely small. Otherwise, funds are slightly increasing, but this will not be reflected in our assessment of reducing waiting types, supporting primary health care, strengthening public health. On the contrary, waiting types are increasing, in health institutions there is dissatisfaction, because of untransparent funding, as for decades, lobbying, we are facing systemic corruption in the health system, while at the same time it is running out of money for those who really need health services. Instead of taking systemic measures to resolve the difficulties of the insured, many of them have been left to the good will of fellow citizens. When the collection of plastic stoppers becomes the only solution for systemic health errors and consequently the survival of patients, it is time to ask ourselves how to proceed. It should also be pointed out in this debate that the austerity measures of the Public Finance Balance Act are being abolished too quickly, given that we do not have serious reform proposals on the table. In the event that agreement with the unions is not reached and the law is not adopted, the public spending on this title would increase by around EUR 200 million next year, which is unacceptable for us. An immediate improvement in the business environment and greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is needed, and real reform of the judiciary is needed first. According to the entrepreneurs themselves, i.e. the Slovenian economy, the functioning of the rule of law is the first condition for the functioning of the economy, in particular for the arrival of new investors. The measures taken by the current government in this area are essentially insufficient for certain specific movements, in order to effectively and not merely demonstrate a reduction in judicial proceedings, in particular economic disputes and insolvency proceedings. We still have too many procedures that go on for years and years before they come to a conclusion and data on the longevity of the proceedings, and in particular on the quality and fairness of the trial in our country, go beyond the borders of Slovenia. Until we record in the field of justice the results that will be comparable to the state of the state of law in Austria or, for example, in Germany, we are confident that foreign investors will simply not be there, because the investor, domestic and foreign investors need to be protected. With the amendment, which was unfortunately not adopted, we have proposed to increase the resources of the sub-programmes of the Technical Task and advice in agriculture to the level of implementation in 2016. Although public talk has been about public agricultural advisory services, market advisers have to earn almost 50% of the money. Some institutions are currently carrying out activities to forgive agricultural advisers. In 2001, when a public agricultural advisory service was set up, the number of employees in it halved, as almost 600 agricultural advisers were previously employed in agricultural establishments. In Slovenia, 310 agricultural advisers are currently employed at eight agri-farm institutions and at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. If Slovenia wants to achieve bold agricultural objectives, especially raising the level of self-sustainment, it is essential to have a strong public agricultural advisory service. In Novi Slovenija, we proposed an increase in funds for sport infrastructure with an amendment to the 2018 budget, just as we proposed last year. In our Group of Members, we are pleased that the coalition has listened to the arguments presented, as new building, modernisation and energy rehabilitation of sports facilities and areas intended for all categories of the population are financed under this sub-programme. These facilities and surfaces are of great importance to the Slovenian population as they enable various forms of sports activities for all categories of athletes at all levels. The proposed funding of EUR 800,000 was not sufficient for the maintenance and construction of sport infrastructure. Unfortunately, however, the coalition did not listen to our other proposals, among other things we have proposed an increase in funds under the heading Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. The area of tourism is one of the great development opportunities for the Republic of Slovenia. The natural and cultural gifts offered by Slovenia are unique in many respects. Here we also see some opportunities for the economic boom of the Republic of Slovenia. This will certainly not be achieved by reducing funds to promote tourist attractions and opportunities in Slovenia. Our proposal to keep these funds at 2017 level was unfortunately not adopted in 2018. Nor has our proposal been taken into account in order to keep the level of settlement of municipalities at the level of 2015. Financial compensation is an important source of funding for municipalities, which ensures the implementation by law of certain tasks, provided that an individual municipality with revenues provided by law cannot cover these costs. In particular, the reduction of these funds will affect the municipalities in less developed and peripheral areas, which do not raise enough income to carry out the statutory tasks. This leads to an increasingly uneven regional development. The financial compensatory measures should therefore remain at least at the level that allows all municipalities to carry out their tasks. In Nova Slovenija, we have been very loudly reminded of this country's inconsistent regional development for some time. And now, more than ever, we see a problem, we have a development problem in Slovenia just because we have no established regions. This would almost have worked in 2008 if the left political options had not ruined our project. When the security situation in our wider and narrower environment is exacerbated, it is essential to strengthen the resources for the Slovenian Army. The proposal for the 2018 budget increases the funds allocated to the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but we believe that the proposed incentives are too weak and we have therefore proposed a joint increase of EUR 29 million under the heading of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Of this increase, 50% would target the management, education and supply of Slovenian Armed Forces personnel, 30% operational operations and preparedness, and 20% of infrastructure and equipment. Unfortunately, our proposal for financial reinforcement of the Slovenian Armed Forces has not been taken into account. Finally and lastly, in Nova Slovenija we are bitter, especially personally, because the Government has decided to deliberately violate the Development Support Act of Pomurje with budgetary documents. The government did it in the planning process. In 2015, the National Assembly adopted an extension of the implementation of the Law on Development Support to Pomurje until the end of 2017. Here are the budget documents for 2017 and you can see that the Government is a little concerned about the extreme eastern region, and consciously the government has taken about 3.4 million of this law. Of course, our amendment is not and will not be adopted and we wonder how we will live in this country in the future when the government sets an example of not having to respect laws. This is an eccentric example on the part of the government that laws do not have to be respected! Ladies and gentlemen, in Novi Slovenija we will vote against the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and against the updated draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let us first ask ourselves what we are talking about. Two days, two days of discussion will be devoted to a document that everyone in this Chamber knows is unrealistic. We have not yet adopted such a document in the history of the Republic of Slovenia. So esteemed President of the National Assembly, Party of the Modern Centre, new policy as you like to praise, you introduce the worst parliamentary practice in the history of the country; you who have promised to change Slovenia for the better. And since the budget is so unrealistic, of course we will not support it in our Group of Members. The state budget is a key document of each government. It should show the government's vision and the goal that the government wants to achieve. The only objective reflected in this budget is to survive the coalition until the end of the term of office. We have not yet had a budget as poorly prepared as these two. The budget memorandum is prepared on a superficial basis and does not, in fact, take into account the legal provisions. It is without the necessary data, the so-called deficit of the consolidated public balance, the deficit of the four largest public funds – it is simply not. We can count it ourselves, but it's not there — probably for a purpose. Structural deficit – not a word. Not a word. And so it's the most important category if we're to figure out where the government is taking our country. In short, the budget memorandum is a document that should ensure transparency in the field of public finances, and it is all very, very, very far from that. We accept the budget and we do not know what will happen with the salaries in the public sector, we do not know what will happen with the doctors, together – obviously for the 300 million euro coalition. For EUR 300 million unknowns and you are now allowed to accept the state budget; the state budget for 2017 and 2018. Colleagues and colleagues, ask yourself if this is what you're doing, okay? According to our client's assessment, the Alliance's path that you have drawn is certainly wrong or not right and unfortunately the numbers confirm this concern and I will try to show you this as easily as possible graphically as possible, all compared to 2014. Why? Because this is your reference year. At the end of 2014, you took control of the country. We accept the budget with many strangers: from the salaries in the public sector 300 million euros, that is slightly less than 1% of GDP, and we will bet here today and tomorrow with 10 million here, 40 million there, 2 million there, 3 million and a half for Pomurje – that is not, and we will accept a hopeful budget with a 300 million hole. We don't know where this government is taking us. We don't know what the structural deficit will be. The difference between domestically calculated and what Europe has calculated is a large 1.5% point. But O.K., you believe in home numbers, but Europe believes some other numbers and the credibility of the country is based exactly on the fact that our, European, world numbers somehow belong together, and unfortunately that is not the case. The budget deficit is decreasing both in 2017 and 2018. That's a fact, and that's a good thing. The second fact is that you have reduced this budget deficit at the expense of pensions and investments. The revenues, according to our opinion, are planned rather realistically in terms of economic activity; of course, higher tax revenues are expected. If I can show you graphically; the blue column is 2014, red is your 2017. I think the difference is obvious; 800 million euros in tax revenues alone are more available, compared with 2013, this is only tax revenue for a billion euros – that we are correct, that we do not take into account the ones that happen or do not happen. And what have you been able to do about it? If we look at the expenditure, despite the significantly higher tax revenues, you've reduced quite a few important categories of expenditure, and I'll only mention three. For the first time, the funds necessary for the normal provision of pensions. In the budget, you can spend 300 million euros less on pensions. Investments, for investments that drive domestic economic growth, give 320 million euros less, indeed at the expense of European funds, but you also have a package on the table, roll up your sleeves and start working, and you will be able to invest, as we did in 2014. And since the Prime Minister likes to deceive several times that interest today has to be paid more than in 2014, here I show him that you also give 100 million euros less interest, which is good, but higher revenues are not intended to pay interest because it takes less money to do so. The result of what I said earlier is very, very, very much a quarter lower growth in economic activity than in 2014. So you really managed to reverse the trend, you really did it, only in a negative direction, unfortunately. Compared to the three of our biggest partners in Europe. See the difference between what and where we were in 2014 and where we are today, in 2016. The difference is more than obvious. More than obvious! In 2014, we were really at the top when we are talking about economic activity; in 2016 we are on the European average and that is not right and that is why we are trying to prove you that your path is wrong. You can also see here: four countries, green is Slovenia – look at the difference in economic growth we had in 2014! Second, 2016, is the result and result of your work. Unfortunately. Therefore, according to my assessment and the same as my client, the Alliance, the government should be more forward-looking and more development-oriented. However, it is the only direction that is visible in your budget, survival until the end of the mandate, and that is wrong. Finally, the result of what the President says is "we know and can do": 321 million less for investments, 275 million less for state budget pensions, that is 38 euros per month for every pensioner, that is, we had to give more for pensions and result – a quarter lower growth for the economy than in 2014. These are the numbers. You can interpret them one way or another, but these are numbers and these are facts. Now I am going to touch once again these four biggest categories that are problematic. He's crying. You've had all year to comply with the public sector. No! No! At ten o'clock this evening, a committee is convened to discuss the law governing public sector wages. Twelve hours before this committee, you have no idea what you're going to do on your payroll. In its opening presentation, neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister mentioned this problem. But O.K., 300 million obviously I don't know. [[...]] A little for someone, I think it's huge on the other side. You don't know what you're going to do with doctors, you don't know what you're going to do with the other public sector, you just don't know what you're going to do with the budget. Investments. The second track will be built after 2019, the third development axis will not be then, 320 million euros have been reduced for investments and, as I said, the result is as bad as it is; and this is bad. The municipalities. You impose on the municipalities, we impose always new obligations, no money is provided for this. You take to the local congregations even though you say that honey and milk are drained in our country. The municipality of Ljubljana will be the only government in your mandate to date, which was the government of Janez Janša, now you are the next one to take it, together more than 20 million euros. Retirement. Of course, it is not true that a number of years have not been coordinated, and I will now say this about my colleague Piklo in particular. In 2012, pensions decreased in line with the Public Finance Balance Act. ZUJF accepted, 11. 5. 2012 at 17 hours and 15 minutes. All six members of Desus voted in favour. Mr Hršak, Mr Jurša, Mrs Jenko, Mrs Kotnik Poropat, Mrs Plevčak and Mr Simič. And in 2012, Desusa's votes did not align their pensions. In 2013, pensions were coordinated in accordance with the PIC law. Indeed, pensions were not harmonised in 2014. In 2015, due to the good situation in 2014, they were extremely aligned to the 2014 account. There's no regular alignment. There is also no regular harmonisation in 2016. And in 2017 there will also be no regular harmonisation in accordance with the PIC law because you have reduced it. I hope that you will continue to support our amendment and assure the pensioners of what they are doing and what they have earned through their lives. So these big words and populism, as Desus is the only party that provides some stability to the pensioners, must slowly end. In fact, they have been in government for 15 years; when it went down, they were there when it went up, they're there, so there's not much about it, obviously, Desus. As I have already said, we will not support the proposal for 2018 in our parliamentary group, nor in our proposal for 2017. I also say that in our party, in the Alliance, we feel that the budgets for 2017 and 2018 should be directed towards the future and not to the survival of the coalition. The president says we know and we can do it. Do you really know and can do it? You didn't know how to harmonise the fiscal council in the National Assembly; you couldn't harmonise public sector wages with public sector unions; you couldn't harmonise agreements with municipalities. Who, then, is responsible for all that is happening in our country? I seriously doubt that you know and can do, and the numbers also show something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Dear Mrs Bratušek, I have been asked only to inform your professional services that political logos should not be used in the presentations. Only in the future. Mr. Prikl, you wanted a replica if I'm not mistaken. Procedural? Here you go. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Dear President, of course I do not have the replicas at this time, but I wanted to procedurally supplement what you said to my colleague Bratuškov. I am very pleased, however, that in my implementation, you have taken a minute or two and specifically addressed me as a member of the National Assembly, me as a member of the Desus Group, but the warning goes in this direction that when there are presentations of opinions, opinions, pardons of the positions of the Group of Members, the position of the Group of Members should be focused and presented, but not debated and addressed by other groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you for your attention, Mr. Prickl. We continue with the presentation of the position, namely the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Mr László Göncz. Here you are, Mr. Goncz. Your word is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we estimate that the proposals, i.e. the 2017 Draft amending budget and the 2018 Supplemental Draft Budget, are acceptable in view of the state's public finances and the circumstances with which we have been suffering in the last year. It should be pointed out that some of the positive and justified measures adopted over the past years have helped the country to recover in the field of economy and finance. Without further ado, I think it is necessary to highlight the positive effects of the adopted fiscal rule, which we cannot ignore, despite the fact that the said public financial commitment is still denied from the point of view of certain political and other social actors. Undoubtedly, this rule also prejudges very difficult negotiations between the social partners. Despite the current uncertainty and the unfavourable situation in the negotiations, we hope that at the last minute there will be a surprise. In doing so, the tendency of the most endangered segments of the population and the proper evaluation of those areas and jobs that have been in a difficult situation for a long time should not be ignored. It is also necessary to highlight areas where the effects have not so far made a significant contribution to the financial stability of the country, which is also a problem in terms of state budgeting. In doing so, I think mainly of the complex area of health in the broadest sense of the word, the still under-effective judicial system, where the most pressing cases also occur in connection with the so-called bank hole, which directly or indirectly affects the financial situation and the social situation of the population. A number of open issues are in the area of general evaluation and classification of activities into payment classes in the public sector and in the field of harmonisation of tax legislation or the search for more appropriate solutions in terms of the competitiveness of the economy and the creation of new jobs. In these cases, and probably where the reserves are still, and with better solutions, we could make an even more significant contribution to the more appropriate structure of the proposed budgets. Today, it would be irresponsible to assume that the proposed budgets will also be sustainable. This also applies to the revised budget for 2017 and, in particular, to the updated proposal for 2018. Although it should be pointed out that the circumstances for the preparation of the sustainable budget are more objectively favourable today than they were a few years ago. Certain risks are certainly also a country's security issue, particularly in view of the still rather unpredictable refugee migrant crisis. We can have different opinions about the slightly higher support of the military and the police, but it is our view that the justification of this would be difficult to challenge. While the proposed budgets are still not sufficiently developed in any of the segments, this is certainly a proposed support for investment and research activities. In this area, we are still lagging behind financially more successful countries and also for some comparable ones in our region. From the point of view of indigenous national communities, we cannot say that the proposed budgets are generous, but rather that they are correct. The government is a state of promise and proposes a level of resources to the same extent as or will be realized for 2016. Therefore, the funds have not decreased, and unfortunately they have not increased, except for some materially negligible hundreds. As a result, in some areas the activities of the national communities are becoming worrying; for example, information and culture can be mentioned, as it does not allow for any developmental orientation. This would be necessary in view of the existence of vulnerable groups such as the numerous small Italian and Hungarian national communities. I can only repeat a year ago the highlighted conclusion that, unfortunately, since the start of the economic crisis, money for the needs of the national communities has not changed, except for one exception, sometimes in the area of culture, there has even been a significant reduction in the past years. An important step in a positive direction, this case, which I mention, has already provided support for the economic base of the indigenous national community in the context of regional incentives for the current year. The same amount is planned for the following year, although the initial agreement with the competent ministry provided for a level of support. It is now said that this is planned in 2018 and this is not reflected in the complete proposal. We believe that the question of the development of indigenous national communities in the future will need to be given greater attention in the near future also in terms of financial support, to the extent that the existence of these few communities in areas where they live autonomously. This clearly applies to media activities, in particular RTV programmes, to printed media and to certain segments of cultural activities, and to systematic and substantively appropriate human resources education in all areas. In this last decade, much has been lost, and we particularly welcome the Ministry of Education's efforts to develop appropriate systemic solutions in this area. The inadequate form of concrete provision of national community budgets remains open. The most attractive is the provision of direct funding to the municipal self-government national community. Despite the principled support of the President of the Government and the former Finance Minister, and I hope that the current Minister, too, has not yet settled this issue. Therefore, despite all of the above, in part also critical comments, we can only speak comprehensively about the government's fairly concrete approach to supporting the activities of the national communities for 2017 and 2018, and this is confirmed by both draft budgets. Finally, let me say that we will also support both proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you, Dr. Gonch. The position The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mrs Urška Ban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, once again a good-bye! Today, in the National Assembly, we are actually continuing the 2017 and 2018 budget debate, which we started already in April, and to recall, at that time we took the first step towards responsible and transparent budgetary planning, by considering and adopting a decision on the framework for the preparation of budgets for the period 2017 to 2019 for all four public cash registers; both for the municipal budget, the state budget, the health treasury and the pension allowance, when we set the target balances for each of them and the maximum possible amount of expenditure. The next step we took here in October was the presentation of the budgetary memorandum and the presentation of the Government's priorities, of course taking into account the financial possibilities given by the State and, of course, in accordance with the adopted Fiscal Rule Act. Thus, the budget package has always received the full attention of the competent parental committees and the intense intertwining of the policy rhetoric and the facts of macroeconomics. The consideration of this budget is certainly very important, it is important to draw attention to all concerns, to all the good and maybe even to the worse side, not only in terms of the possibility of endless political debates in front of the viewers' screens. Our message is, of course, positive in relation to both draft budgets. In recent years, macroeconomic circumstances have significantly improved, we have made a number of positive moves and reduced the development backlog. We've achieved higher growth, more employees, higher inflows, lower interest rates. And I have listed only a few positive developments, with good forecasts for further economic growth just confirming our work. The budgets for 2017 and 2018 are based on measures to further promote the economic growth and competitiveness of our country, as I have already said, in line with the fiscal rule and within the framework of the permitted public financial deficit. It is a concrete commitment to our citizens and citizens. Why? Because we provide stable pension payments from the pension fund, we provide social transfers at the legal level to all who are entitled to them, we provide payments to public institutions, both in the field of education, social, health care and we allow for the normal functioning of this part of the public sector, and a stable business environment and low interest rates, both for economic operators and for the state and citizens. But in spite of everything, let's be real to ourselves, to people. The financial and related development challenges of the country continue to be difficult and lead to further follow-up and consolidation of the adopted fiscal rule, stabilisation of public finances and responsible governance mainly with the country's debt. We must not forget that we still have a budget deficit, which we have successfully reduced, and we are still facing a high debt. Nevertheless, our aim is to provide adequate financial support for identifiable programme development content, to promote measures for long-term growth and to foster economic investment potential and competitiveness, to maintain a fair social balance and dialogue, and to maintain responsibility for both the international and the local environment. A demanding work, but feasible at the first condition, which remains – the stabilisation of public finances. That is why this is still the first priority of this budget. We will first take care to maintain macroeconomic balance, economic growth and, above all, to improve the material situation of citizens and citizens. Allow me to introduce you to some of the positive changes in our work together. Promoting economic growth. The data on Slovenia’s rapid economic growth of the euro area average in 2016 to 2018 is, in itself, sufficiently eloquent. We solved the public deficit from red numbers and reduced it to below 3%. The budget deficit planned for 2017 amounts to €681 million, or 1.6% of GDP, and for 2018 it amounts to €305 million and 0.7%. Let me remind you again, in 2013, this deficit was €1.5 billion and more than 4% of GDP. In 2016, for the first time since 2008, the Government had foreseen the creation of a budget surplus without taking into account the costs of interest or primary surplus, amounting to EUR 276 million. This will increase to €280 million in 2017 and €653 million in 2018. Thus, the budget will be balanced without taking into account the interest on debts even in 2017 and 2018, which will gradually reduce the debt of the State sector in the future. At the same time, it is important to establish that the state budget is responsible for a deficit which is lower than investment in the state budget. The aim of our current and future action is, therefore, to achieve a structurally balanced budget that does not spend beyond its capabilities, even more importantly to open up the possibility of phasing out all austerity measures. Gradually. For we all probably agree that exclusively sound public finances allow for greater prosperity for people and generations of our children, and that our grandchildren do not impose heavy burdens on irresponsible political decisions. That is why and only because of the future of both our children, grandchildren in the modern Centre Party Group, we support the further consolidation of public finances in the form I have presented. Indeed, we are aware that only healthy public finances can enable the further economic development of our country, the greater well-being of people, and in a responsible way that will not burden young generations with irresponsible behaviour. Slovenia, in 2016 to 2018, as I have already said briefly, is speeding up the economic growth of the euro area by 2.2% on the basis of the European Commission's November 2016 forecast. In 2017, Slovenia is expected to have the eighth fastest economic growth in the euro area by 2.6%. Umar forecasts 2.3% in 2016 and 2.9% in 2017. Data that's probably gonna tell us something. The policy of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness pursues the objective of maintaining and enhancing economic growth and competitiveness by developing the competences and capacities of businesses and responding to societal challenges. In addition, it aims to accelerate the establishment, growth and development and to improve the international competitiveness of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to create a business environment that will increase the attractiveness of the area for the establishment and operation of enterprises and investment for the development of the economy, to raise entrepreneurial culture and awareness of the importance of creativity, entrepreneurship and innovation, to develop the internal market, to increase external trade, to internationalise, to promote the development of tourism, to link cultural and natural heritage with tourism and to the development of creative industries. If I go forward now with the priorities set out in the budget. First of all, quality public health. The budget ahead of us today, the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, is increasing the budget for changes to our health. Resources to enhance the quality of health services will increase from €77.5 million next year to €97 million, i.e. by around 25%. For healthcare, the budget provides additional resources for the implementation of the activities referred to in the Resolution of the National Health Plan 2016-2025 Joint Knowledge Society. The additional resources are intended to implement action plans for the preparation of a strategy for the control of dementia, a working group for children with special needs, the amendment of the Mental Health Act, the development of professional research tasks for mental health and dementia, forensic psychiatry and so on. As I said, the means to improve the quality of health services will increase from €77.5 million this year, as the evaluation shows, to €97 million next year and € 103 million in 2018. The next priority is the security of citizens and citizens. The budget for the Ministry of Defence is increasing by approximately 16%. In addition, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and the Soviet Union is also increasing as a deliberate investment in ensuring and maintaining security in the changed security challenges of the international dimension. We are facing a global humanitarian challenge, which, of course, we must deal with with with patient and prudentity, is a challenge that is writing the history of our time. Third priority, modernisation of infrastructure – including important investments in this area – and last but not least, and very crucially, the substantive priorities are young people, budgetary documents significantly increase resources for science and education – this contribution is considered an investment in our young people. In order to invest in science and employment, almost €370 million is allocated next year, with the aim of increasing employment and raising the level of employment of the population, and the Government has taken measures in the labour market aimed at increasing employment, with a focus on focusing on long-term unemployment. The latest data from October 2016 show that unemployment is the lowest since October 2009, but the funding for an active employment policy in view of the 2016 budget in force is slightly increasing as the active employment policy in the future is focused primarily on the most vulnerable groups in the labour market, i.e. those who, despite the more favourable economic conditions, need assistance in entering the market. It is also important to mention the area of science and the information society, which is one of the key areas which, in line with international, EU and national strategic documents, allow for a long-term increase in the competitiveness and added value of the economy and the related provision of pre-conditions for increasing general social well-being. The funds for this area are the highest in the last five years of 257 million in 20147 and 289 million in 2018. This is confirmed by the fact that the budget is development-oriented by investing a high level of resources in the field of science and the information society. In 2017 and 2018, budgetary investments in science are significantly increasing and will focus on strengthening research infrastructure, promoting investment by public research organisations and R & D companies. The aim of funding these areas is in particular to improve international competitiveness and excellence in research, to improve the use and development of research infrastructure, to improve research capacities, to effectively integrate into international research programmes and so on. As a result, greater use of research potential, researchers and their international mobility and mobility between the academic and business spheres will be made. There will also be greater recognition of the fields of science, cultural and creative industries and economies. In the policy of education and sport, the Government will pursue the objective of further providing accessible and quality education and education for all in 2017 and 2018. Higher education and scientific research will be strengthened. It will also follow the objective of integrated growth and the development of sport for all. For education and sport policy, more than €1.6 billion has been earmarked for 2017 and 2018 by increasing the funding for sport infrastructure in the 2018 Supplemental Budget by an additional €2 million, and this level of funding is also one of the highest in the last five years. If I round up this substantive review of the priority of this budget, it is only right that there is a few words in the end about the investments themselves. For the next two years, there are plans to increase investment funds, especially from an integrated budget, funds from the EU funds go their way, and then we will explain in detail, but we must not forget that when we compare investments over the past two years with those expected in 2017 and 2018, we must not forget that the years 2014 and 2015 have been intense when the previous financial perspective was concluded, in which we have spent almost 45% of the total resources allocated to us over the entire programming period only in the last two years. Therefore, in our view, it is not right to compare all investment expenditure and transfers in 2014 with the expectations of 2017. We are pleased, however, that the very integral means of investment, the funds we spend on investment, are increasing over the next two years. In 2014, integral funds, according to our investment budget, amounted to EUR 346 million, for 2017 are planned at EUR 475 million and in 2018 EUR 511 million. Therefore, I stress that the integral resources devoted to investments in both integrated budgets are increased and we are talking about an increase of 346 million in 2014 and 511 in 2018. It may be appropriate to say a few more words on this point about the comparison with 2013 and several times the Government's claim that today the government has one billion euros in revenue. The numbers show a concrete situation. In 2013, the state budget ended with a deficit of €1.5 billion, with 7.7 billion in revenue and 9.3 billion in expenditure representing 4.3% of GDP. For 2016, the government adopted a budget which committed itself to reducing the deficit of the state budget to slightly less than €840 million, or 2.1% of GDP, representing a gradual consolidation of public finances and the approximation of the medium-term objective in this structural sense. A deficit of EUR 681 million and EUR 305 million for 2018 is foreseen for 2017. The essence of these figures is that, in order to achieve this objective in 2015 and 2016, the Government had to offer a prudent policy of public financial expenditure, as this deficit did not just go down on its own, and most of these higher revenues were also intended to cover this deficit and the interest costs for which we have to provide additional money for the service of public debt due to the already known measures carried out at the end of 2013. Some more about the new programming period, which aims to co-finance content projects with a clearly defined strategy, specific objectives and impacts that increase competitiveness and ensure quality and long-term jobs. In 2017 and 2018, more than one billion cohesion and structural funds will focus on funding programmes and projects in the following areas: research, innovation and technological development; ensuring dynamic and competitive entrepreneurship; improving the state of the environment and biodiversity; and sustainable use and production of energy and smart grids. The funding of employment promotion, social inclusion and lifelong learning and training programmes, as I said, is also followed by a good billion funding for projects co-financed by cohesion and structural funds. On this basis, our expectations go to the Government or to individual ministers to make even more effective use of, compared to the previous period, 20% lower, but still significant, €3.2 billion large from the European financial perspective, from which the country should draw more than a billion euros in European funding over the next two years. In general, funds from cohesion and structural funds are falling compared to the previous programming period for a billion euros, and it is not entirely comparable to past years' investments. If I finish it slowly. For the first time since 2008, the Republic of Slovenia has public financial sovereignty, the labour market situation is improving, the number of unemployed has fallen below 100,000 this year, economic growth is constant and private consumption and exports are increasing. We have somehow saved Slovenia from numbers that were not favorable, and today we are also creating fuses that will prevent the recurrence of a large minus that was created exclusively at the expense of people. Allow me to also touch on this point the Law on wage measures and other labour costs in 2017, which is still in line with trade unions. We want and appeal to all sides that the process continues with the expected final successful response. We believe that a cooperative approach can lead to the right path on the one hand between inevitable measures and trade union requirements, of course taking into account real public financial frameworks, which are now known to everyone. These facts cannot be changed, but if so, we must seriously ask ourselves which account or whose account. We therefore estimate that the 2017 and 2018 budgets reflect the right direction of the Government's work and the guarantee for sound public finances and stability of the country. From all the above, we believe that the proposal for the budget under consideration for the next two years is an appropriate financial basis for the country's upcoming programming orientations, and that is why we will support it in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ban. We continue with the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, after several months of discussions, we are finalising our debate on the budget for 2017 and 2018 and will decide what is the economic, financial, social, economic policy, including the development policy of this government and will thus become the policies of this country. I must say that I am a little disappointed or rather disappointed at the ambition of the prepared budgets, mainly ambition in terms of what Slovenia can do. I think that Slovenia can do much more, and the budget, which reflects a vision reflecting a strategy that reflects the objectives of this government, should be different or both budgets, for 2017 and 2018, should be different, if not more ambitious. It should also be based on actual government measures, on what some say structural reforms. In fact, it should be based on measures aimed at improving people's well-being. The improvement of people's well-being and the well-being of people must be realized that no government is created. Myth is that the welfare of the people is created by the government, and it is a myth that the welfare of the people is created by the government of Mir Cerar. Governments can create exclusive conditions for the economy, for entrepreneurship and, of course, for greater prosperity. For this reason, it is necessary to look at the conditions created by the Government of Mira Cerar for the economy and what it has been creating for the past two years and which it is expected to create in the future. Given that there are no measures, given that these figures are not followed by measures that are not ready for action, of course these conditions do not change, only to actually improve them. That is why these budgets are also due to a lot of mistakes. Of course, it is not only important how much more this government will provide with budgets for spending, how much more the Ministry of Health will receive, how much more the Ministry of the Economy will receive, but how this money or money will actually be spent; effectively, economically, less efficient, less economically. Here we must recognise what the actual budget means; it means, on the one hand, that most of these revenues are derived by taxes, and on the other hand, by expenditure. As the expenditure is still higher than the revenue, we have a deficit. There are many positive words here, how this deficit has been reduced, but we can doubt it. For the first time, we can be in doubt because there are no legal conditions for adoption of the budget. The legal conditions for the adoption of the budget are not created because all legislative provisions relating to the budget are simply not taken into account. One of these legal provisions is that the fiscal council is preparing an assessment of compliance with fiscal rules on the basis of a proposal for a state budget, a proposal for changes to the state budget, or a rebalancing of the state budget submitted for adoption by the National Assembly. This is provided for in Article 2 of the Fiscal Rule Act, and this law has in fact been disregarded by that Government. It also did not take into account the provision providing that, following the submission of a proposal for a State budget or a change or a rebalancing of the State budget for the adoption of the National Assembly on the basis of the consolidated balance sheets of the State sector to which the Ministry of Finance is sending it, the Fiscal Council shall prepare an assessment of all these documents. We do not have this today, and therefore we can base decisions on these budgets on faith, not on facts, not on facts, but on faith. Here all Members and Members of Parliament can believe that this budget is prepared in accordance with the fiscal rule that it is prepared in accordance with the rest of the legislation and so on. This budget also does not have all the documents accompanying the documents that it should have in accordance with the Public Finance Act, which is referred to in Article 13 of the Public Finance Act, and this is indeed not the case. In fact, not all the balance sheets are available, and this is a 300-million-dollar gap for the public sector. The 300-million-dollar hole is about as much as Slovenia pays less for NATO, the 300-million-dollar hole is, as it should have been, about as much as it would have if it had occurred, in fact the deficit would have increased to the situation that was two years ago. And that's what's unacceptable. This is actually the fact that the balance sheets are simply not completed. Since the balance sheets are not closed and because we do not have an authority of the fiscal world to actually give an independent assessment, we have the right to question. And that is why we are actually doubting this budget. These are already some of the institutional requirements that we have in our country and that we should actually respect. If we're still going into substantive matters. Nor do we have a consolidated balance sheet for the whole public sector. We don't have the balance sheet of the Health Insurance Institute, we don't have the balance sheet of the STIZ, we don't have a balance sheet of municipalities, in short, this is actually a deficit. This also involves the fiscal rule law or the fiscal world. We have a negative opinion of the Council of State on the budget for 2017 and 2018. Like we don't admit him as if he's gone, he doesn't really mention it. However, the budget is therefore insufficient, if you want, it is also vulnerable. Secondly, which is also a mistake, we do not really have a structural deficit and a structural deficit assessment. Some of my colleagues have already talked about this, but it is not, and it should actually be. We should find out how many deficits we have if we take on certain cyclical trends in the economy and society. More. What is the balance sheet of the budget? The Court of Auditors cannot actually assess this balance sheet. And he issued a report on it. In other words, because we don't have a balance sheet, that means we don't know how much property we have in the country, how much is estimated, how much we have. Here I must say that the Court of Auditors has rejected the ruling because there is no evidence, no data on the state's property. This relates to claims, to investments, to fixed assets, to the operations of banks, to the operations of insurance undertakings, that is, to all the equity shares held by the State in the financial sector. And if you don't know what you have – and this government doesn't know what it has, then it's very hard to plan what you're going to do, how you're going to do it, why you're going to do it, and it's very hard to actually invest in anything, including infrastructure, which today was also a little talk, rail infrastructure or whatever, road infrastructure and so on. In short, we don't know what we're talking about. This government does not actually have data. That's what the supervisory institute says, that's the Court of Auditors. If we believe in the government, while there is no structural deficit, then we can say that it is certainly positive that we have a smaller deficit and on the other hand there is an increasing debt. This debt increased by about 22 billion since 2008. So over the last eight years, it's increased by 22 billion. And we don't have the blame, we don't have the blame scheme, because it's actually getting bigger. This also made it very difficult to speak to the Government, the Minister of Finance talked about economic sovereignty, about financial sovereignty. She's not here. We still owe 83% of GDP, we still pay a billion interest for it, even though these interest cuts, but that is indeed the case. As a result, these frameworks we are talking about are unrealistic. We justifiably believe that these frameworks we are talking about are unrealistic. On the one hand, we don't have a covered hole, a 300-million hole in public sector salaries, on the other hand we have an obligation, we have difficulty talking about this kind of economic and financial sovereignty, on the third hand we don't have an assessment of the actual situation, as the Court of Auditors tells us. For this reason, I fear that a lot of things have been done more in mind, at least for those involved. A little less thought has been given to the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. But before we talk about it, we need to talk about these indicators, which show some progress in Slovenia and most of you do so to me. One of the indicators I'm not going to say is that the only one that's saved is economic growth or GDP growth. Here we must say that GDP growth does not create this government, nor is it the previous government, but creates conditions so that the economy can achieve growth. And thus, of course, greater prosperity. Here again the question arises whether we will achieve this prosperity with only GDP growth. As a result, the repetition of data on economic growth is not viable, and above all it is not the result of this government. When we talk about unemployment, yes, statistics show that. However, another 20,000 employees in Austria must be given, and another 10,000 people must be added, who move out of Slovenia every year. In the end, we will have nothing to gain from unemployment, especially if such evictions occur in even greater numbers. And that's dangerous. And that's bad. If we are talking about income and expenditure, then on the other hand, it should also be said that these revenues are based on taxes. But this government has done something to make the conditions worse. She's raised taxes in the last two. First, it increased its income by eliminating the adjustment of the scale and the amounts and classes of liquid inflation. However small inflation may be, it may even be negative, it accumulates over the years, and it saved, so she said, 30 million. Secondly, it has legalized, if you want cemented, of course the National Assembly can fix it, but here I do not think there is any great desire to change the rate of value added tax. The value added tax rate was increased by two percentage points at the time of the biggest crisis. Temporarily. This government has done so for the permanent, and with this, traders, producers and so on, all those in this chain are transferring this tax to the final consumer. This final consumer, however, is a citizen and a citizen and pays more tax when he buys goods or services. That's perfect, and clearly. It's unnecessary. I think it is unnecessary for the value added tax rate to have definitively increased to 22 %. On the one hand, it has made small adjustments to its income, and on the other hand it has increased its corporate income tax from 17% to 19%. Let us leave here perhaps the 10 or 20 or 30 million that will result in more, see what kind of signal this government gives to investors. Here is an important signal for investors, foreign investors and domestic investors. Here's a signal how the government will prepare conditions for these investors, for these economists, for these entrepreneurs. She's going to prepare poor conditions, and that's the problem. Very, very bad conditions will be prepared and this is a bad signal. Slovenia is therefore one of the countries on the tail after foreign direct investment. More. Investors leave Slovenia and go to other countries, go to Croatia, go to the Czech Republic, Slovakia and so on. Cases of large companies leaving are known. If the Minister of Economy wants to create a zone where he will create or where he will not create it, but he will create the conditions for foreign investors to come, while the same minister does not know how to vote or not to vote, but the government in which he sits increases the tax rate by two percentage points from 17% to 19%, it is a bad signal for foreign investors. First, because the tax has increased and secondly, because the tax system is changing and it is not stable. Of course, this may mean a little more money in the short term, but not in the long term, because conditions for management are deteriorating, for entrepreneurship, and as a result, there will be no more money in the final phase. It is unwise to speak now of revenue, including excise policy. Mostly oil excises. Look, I hope that the minister has already decided whether this government has already decided whether we will have fixed prices, guaranteed prices, changing prices, price of oil or price of petrol on one petrol service, the other on the other, depending whether it will be on the highway or on the local road but please go to the website, in Austria the price of petrol is about 20 cents per litre. [[…]] All the time. Regardless of what we are creating here, we are actually creating conditions for two domestic companies, which I can say are at least in a dual position if I do not say that they are in a monopolistic position. That's why we get less excise duty and that's why we actually have excise provisions here. When we talk about revenue, we talk about taxes on the one hand, and if we talk about taxes, then we can find that taxes are increasing, that the tax system is not stable and that the actual conditions for the economy are deteriorating, and that the conditions for entrepreneurs are certainly not improving. So here's the question of what we can actually do. In the short term, given the situation we were in the crisis, we can say the following: that the tax revenues are higher than previously said for 800 million or if we take the rest of the revenue, by a billion euros. But here is now the question, not only how money is redistributed for human well-being, but it is also a question of how effective and how cost-effective and how well we are here in fact a social state. If we put €7 billion of this money on an average pension per month, given that these pensions have been seriously lagging behind, then I think it is necessary to ask here the question of social policy, what social policy this government is leading. Pension is not a social instrument, pension is based on earned work. If this government, this coalition, including the party they say repeatedly, the pensioner, although they also say it is not, is satisfied with such a ransom, then I can say that they are very modest to their pensioners, to say the least. Very modest. They can calculate what this actually means, and I can tell them that there is a $300 million item in the budget that is not known where it will go. These 300 million are different recapitalisations. It is unclear to whom the State will recapitalise in this budget. But this 300 million is in the air. Will it be banks again, whether it's insurance companies, whether it's energy companies and so on - there's 300 million here. On the one hand, 300 million for the recapitalisation of state property, which, by the way, is considered to be the largest in terms of gross social product and 7 euros per month for average pension, is a huge difference. I think we should make some adjustments here. But if this coalition thinks so, then the opposition, except that the amendment, is difficult to do more, and that is actually voted on. These measures, currently in force in the field of pensions, were also taken in 2012, 2013 in part in 2014, when the biggest financial crisis was. But Cerar's government says that this financial crisis is gone. And in fact it is not, and in fact this budget could also show in the investment area that Slovenia can do more. I could do more if it were better to manage state property. I could have done better if the government hadn't actually given up the revenue from the DUTB. DUTB was set up to repay the recapitalisation money the taxpayers gave to the bank in the wake of the crisis. And to come back. But the government here, and so I understood the Minister, canceled the cash flow from DTUB's sale. The second is also SDH, of course, and how many dividends it receives from the Slovenian State Holding Company, which manages the assets. I think that too little, even in the light of the plans that SDH has in its documents, capital returns should actually be higher. As this asset is managed less, the return is lower, as the return is lower, the deficit needs to be covered. And the deficit is most easily covered by a tax hike. It's the easiest thing to do. I can also tell you which tax makes it easier to generate more revenue. With a value added tax, and with a wage tax. These are the most stable categories in the country so far and it is easier to sit on wages or on consumers. However, a few more efforts to be made by the Government of Mir Cerar require management and requires leadership and also requires that the government, as a congregation of these companies, be easily engaged. However, it does not leave one company without all the members of the Supervisory Board, another company simply without the Chairman of the Management Board, or it is now in resignation or not in resignation, however. But here the government doesn't do enough or do too little or almost do nothing. And simply leave 12 billion assets or 10 billion assets, whatever you value, to imperfect management authorities and imperfect management bodies. That's not good, and that's why there's less revenue. When we are talking about wages and what the government will also spend more money on, health has been mentioned several times. Some of my predecessors also talked about how much 10, 100 million more will go to the Ministry of Health. How many 10 million more will go to the other ministry? You haven't done anything about it yet. You didn't do anything by signing a check or a check from the Ministry of Finance. As a result, there will be no greater prosperity, so there will be no higher quality of the services that citizens and citizens rightly expect. They're expecting them justifiably. This will not shorten the waiting line, so there will be no better health services, so there will be no better equipment. There are also very large supplies in the area of purchase of equipment, as this equipment is easily overpaid, as has already been found in this National Assembly. In other words, by having a billion more money and distributing it through ministries, you will do nothing because this money will go for non-productive purposes, and citizens and citizens will have none of it and will get nothing. How do you see that? Yes, given that there are no measures in fact, there are no measures in the field of health. You can convince me that this is not the Ministry of Health, but it is the Department of Health Insurance and so on, which is responsible for waiting periods, as said on one of the committees. Wait, the Ministry of Finance sets up the Board of the Health Insurance Institute, and the Ministry gives its consent to the Director and so on. From this point of view, I've made a lot of money and I've made money without programs or, some say, without structural reforms, it doesn't mean anything. Since it does not mean anything, nothing will happen in itself, but something has to be done here and it is actually necessary to do something about it that citizens and citizens will actually have something out of it. Then we have the European funds drawn up here. This liquid pumping, let us leave the past, then we made mistakes, but thank God we fixed these mistakes in 2014 and 2015. However, we are again making the same mistakes in drawing on European funds. The question is whether we will have so much happiness as in 2014 and 2015 that we will actually be able to fix it. But we are late here, we are not late for community projects, the government is late, because it does not actually comply with the European Commission because it does not prepare the relevant documentation because it does not prepare the relevant papers. And here, I apologize, is a very big problem. What should be very good in the view of government representatives are investments. We're going to make $2.2 billion for investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a little separation of maintenance, ongoing investment. And I would like to draw attention to something else that this government is wrong, and I can say unprofessionally, is planning investments. This is also pointed out by the Court of Auditors. This has also happened in the past, but it is also here that investments are planned first, and then budget lines change and this money goes into current consumption. This has already happened, and this has already been warned. And once again, these investments, which are actually determined, are unreal. You figured it out yourself. Now you have a company that's going to be running a second track, you're going to be giving money to do the analysis. All these analyses were already made in 2007 and in 2008. Look at the documents. It's all been done. The international institutions have identified and identified the economy, the financial performance of the second track. I wouldn't talk about it now, because it's not an object, but this investment, as it's now set up, is unrealistic. Of these investments, there will be little, and this also shows that we have very little foreign investment and even domestic investment. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another matter, namely that the Court of Auditors is constantly reminding us that the Government is making repeated mistakes in showing revenue and expenditure. The Court of Auditors also points out that there has been a breach of the rules in the implementation of budgets and therefore calls on the Government to remedy the errors identified and to effectively implement the long-awaited system rules, such as the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act. The Court of Auditors shall do so every year and shall issue the same report or similar report each year. As he issues a similar report, it actually means that the government doesn't do anything here. But it's been ten years. Five years, ten years. The government simply doesn't take that into account. Now I am saying this backwards, and look, I believe that this is the same in this budget, and that it will actually be done in the same way. And that the promised rules, such as the Public Finances Act and the Accounting Act, will in fact be gone for a while. As a result, there will also be no better implementation of budgets in this area. We are also far from what used to be a speech, this is from the programme budget. We are far from that and far from following all the expenditure on the programme budget. We will not support such a budget in the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor will we vote in favour. This budget has too many mistakes. This budget is not prepared for development and is not prepared so that people actually have conditions for greater prosperity. He's too ambitious, too much money is about running things, too little money is about investments, too little money is about creating better conditions. Regardless of the averages that have been discussed here, there is a real backlog behind the average in the European Union, and I want to say that we are ahead of the countries that we have been far ahead of in the past. And these countries are catching up and running ahead of us in development, in prosperity and also in openness to investment, in ambition. From this point of view, conditions for better management, for better creation, for better life are also changing. That's sad. This budget is indeed sad in this sense of non-ambitiousness, and we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much, mag. Spread out. We have concluded with a joint introductory presentation and a presentation of the views of the groups on the draft amending the budget and on the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a debate on each proposal for an act separately. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. We are moving on to a debate on the draft budget changes. We will discuss individual parts of the draft amending budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the development programme plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the general part of the draft amending budget. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mag. Matthew Tonin is the first discusser, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Good afternoon. Dear Members and Members, welcome! When we talk about budget documents, we always talk about the government's vision of what the government wants to do in the future. It is in the budget that this is most pronounced and cannot be blinded and these traces cannot be erased. Unfortunately, the truth is that this budget for 2017, and even the one later for 2018, does not tell us much, does not say that the government will undertake any serious reform, but speaks only of trying this mandate within the given options without any serious adjustment to bring it to an end. In this part it is necessary to agree with those who said that this budget is not ambitious. So that no one will say that I only touch the general winged if we really try to focus on the essentials, on such things as at least a tenth of the budget in the budget. So let's not deal with brats, if I may say very hard, but to focus on the essentials, the things that have billions of consequences. I'll put the transfer into the pension fund and the interest we're paying. If this country spends or spends almost €10 billion, the transfer to the pension fund is large in 2017 1.3 billion. It's a huge amount. If anyone else can say from here on out that our pension fund is sustainable, it's easy to lie. If our pension fund were sustainable, these EUR 1.3 billion from the budget would not have to be allocated to the pension fund. So we could definitely complete the second track out of this 1.3 billion, that's for sure, even if you're still counting, we don't know how much corruption is in there, we could do the second track every year. So it's an extraordinary number. If anything, then I would expect this government to be one of the fundamental issues that would have been addressed in this mandate when it had the opportunity, including pension reform. Successful and exemplary European prime ministers have embarked on the adjustment of social systems, which certainly include pension reform, in the time of good cows. To avoid pointing out any conservative, I will touch Mr Schröder, who was a socialist in Germany and has adapted at the time of economic growth a number of the German social system because Germany expected this crisis to be more ready. Your government, which, while citing that we are at a time of economic growth, is simply not working. And what's gonna happen? When the next crisis comes, Slovenia will be where it was before the crisis. Last week, I was in Brussels, and I talked to a Irish colleague from the Fine Gael party, i.e. a conservative, a leader of a parliamentary group, and we had a little shakedown of this economic situation in Slovenia and Ireland. We have found that economic growth across the thumb is approximately the same in both countries. With this difference, when we look at how we came to this, that the Irish went through the crisis for cheap money to the troika, with cheap money they went through serious reforms and changes, adjusted their systems, and today they are already showing results and have economic growth. But we said, we are ourselves the master, we don't want the money of the troika, and we have gone to the market for expensive money, which we will pay for a long time, but we have not made serious adjustments and changes. Now I'm back with the expensive money. Interest, for example, will be paid in the budget in 2017 988 million. In this House, we've had many discussions, I'd rather say, talk about our external debt, and who's more responsible for it, and who's more responsible for it, in quotes, but statistics and numbers are inexcusable. By 2008, this country's debt was at 22.5% of GDP, representing around €8 billion. Today, however, over 80% of GDP is around €30 billion. These debts, which are at least high in trend, are practically costing us a tenth of the budget. And once again, we can ask ourselves what we could do with this tithe and do it. Probably a lot of hospitals, schools, maybe we could invest in the health system so we don't get what's happening to us right now. We'd have great opportunities and opportunities. Only Slovenia or all of our history has always been such that we have always chosen an easier way. And that's gonna get a lot of revenge someday. We've always chosen the easiest way, go for money, buy social peace and solve the problem for two years, maybe three years. But in the long run, we don't solve our problems. Bratuškov's e-mail was in the graphs earlier, she worked hard, she showed up a lot. One of the things that she has shown is how now slightly better economic growth has also increased in the budget. Also with this title, it would be expected that when we already have a slightly higher inflow into the budget, in order to really try to reduce indebtedness and, above all, adapt those social systems, here again I am exposing the pension system, which we are about to be devoured by, in the notes, a large part of our budget. I could now go into all the details again, who is responsible for this, that we still have no pension reform, and here we could say a lot about colleagues from Desus. And I think it's a shame to lose words because statistics here also speak for themselves. Since Desus has been in coalitions, pensions, unfortunately, have been falling for real. I didn't make that up, but it's statistics. The answer of the Desus colleagues is, of course, "what if it weren't for us would have fallen even further." What if, but look, I also have two parents at home who are just before retirement, and whenever we open this topic at Sunday lunch, we can finish it very quickly, because for those who are just before retirement, it is a rather unpleasant topic. [[…]] But I keep telling them that pension reform is the most in the interest of people who are just before retirement or current pensioners, because if pension reform does not happen, then pensions will continue to fall realistically. They are already miserable, and if we do nothing about pension reform, then these pensions will be even lower and those who are just before retirement, if this pension system is not more sustainable, means that pensions will be even lower. This has now been resolved through payments from the state budget by lowering the dose rate, but this will not work forever. I, who open this subject today and who speak of these things, am very unpopular and unpopular. Even one of my clients is wrong, they say that pension reform is not the best thing to talk about, you can't get a lot of political points here, there's more of Desus' tactics that say that pension reform is not necessary, because people under pension reform always imagine that it is necessary to work longer. But unfortunately, we came with the country in a situation where it will be necessary to start telling the truth, even if that truth will be unpleasant. Now this coalition seems to have completed its mandate, perhaps just before the elections, that some coalition partner will jump out of the coalition early due to a potential good result and we will have a minority government, that's your thing, I'm not going to run into these things, but I'm going to say that these two budgets for 2017 and 2018, which we're going to deal with, indicate that the government coalition will maintain the status quo. Then 2018 will come and God help the one who will take over the government in 2018. That's gonna be a lot of trouble. I think these good times, like now, will give way a little bit, but the first days will begin or, if you like, the first years of our great demographic crisis. This is also one of the issues that no one is concerned with for the next ten years, whether it is a threat or a promise of major changes in the field of demographics. And I didn't make that up again. That's the statistics again. Fortunately, statistics are quite exact science, but from the next ten years, the number of people aged over 60 in Slovenia will increase by 100,000. And this is going to be a tremendous pressure on the pension and medical bills. That is why I say that whoever takes office or joins the government in 2018 will be one of the great poor. Because you now have everything right and everything seems to be great, you are not making any serious changes to our systems, but you will bring the matter forward until 2018. However, if I was talking about pension reform and also about the high interest costs, another matter needs to be highlighted. This is the drawback of European funds. Practically European funds are the only serious source of investment in this country. In recent days, we have received a report on our bench on how to draw on European money in the perspective of 2014-2020. Do you know how much we've drawn so far? Nothing. 2014; 2015; 2016; Three years of this existing perspective and nothing. Why am I telling you this? Because I think that drawing on European funds is a big or important source of economic growth. Let us remember what happened when the financial perspective was concluded 2007-2013. The projects were being fully prepared, even more than the available money. Under the rules in force, the projects had to be completed by 2015. And in those years 2013, 2014, 2015 or today, if you are looking at my home congregation Kamnik, there are still open construction sites where we are building certain infrastructure from this European money. And all of this has helped to launch the construction sector, has helped turn our business wheels around, and one would expect that with the enthusiasm, as we have concluded the previous financial perspective, we will continue with a new one. But when you go to see the details, you know what's sad? That we have EUR 3 billion of European money at our disposal, you say that it is not in the budget, but this money is 3 billion, that is EUR 3 000 million, we are not starting to draw. We do not draw them because the government has not prepared technical and administrative grounds for this pumping. I stress, not because we wouldn't have projects, but because bureaucracy in the background hasn't prepared all the bases for pumping. Not to mention that the priorities and current operational programmes may not be the best, many mayors point out that priorities may need to be turned in another direction. My colleague back there reminds me that time is running relentlessly, yes, that's how I'm going to have to end up at this point. I'd say just the following. You've had much more or you still have a much better time than our government has had. If we really want to do something big for Slovenia, then this time should be used to start adapting our social systems to tomorrow. I am sure that the people would probably not be grateful to you, as they were not grateful to Schröder.I would probably not repeat another mandate, but they would have done something great for this country. But that's how you decided to go the easy way, and we'll see how this all ends.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Also welcomed are colleagues and colleagues. I'll say it again, even though we've heard it multiple times today, but I think it's good to have this in our ears, what is the current statistics. The Slovenian economy has recorded stable growth since 2014, which is estimated to continue there in 2017, 2018. The economic growth in 2015 was estimated to have reached 2.3%, mainly based on exports, which increased by 5.6%, while investments increased by 1%. In 2015 we can also see a gradual recovery in the labour market, where employment increased by 1.1% after a multi-annual decline period. This trend continues also in 2016 when employment growth is estimated at 1.9 in GDP growth estimated at 2.3%. The preparation of the state budget for 2017, 2018, had to take into account all macroeconomic frameworks mainly from the autumn forecast of Umar since September 2016. Let me list some other statistics which, as Mrs Bratušek has repeatedly pointed out, are a fact. Investments as an important factor in domestic demand will account for 6 % in 2017 and a 5% annual increase in 2018. As a result of improving the general economic climate and consumer confidence, more favourable movements are also expected on the private side. Thus, this economic climate, an indicator that reveals the mood in businesses and households, improved in Slovenia in October compared to September. Not only that, the value of this indicator reached 7% in October and thus returned to the level that was last measured in Slovenian statistics in August 2008. What does that mean? I'm the opposite of a colleague in front of me. I believe that the political stability represented by the new policy with the government of Dr. Mir Cerar has made a major change in Slovenia, not only political stability, but the consolidation of public finances means a more peaceful environment for the more normal functioning of both the economy and citizens. And that seems crucial to me, even though you will never attribute it to us. It also seems important to me that developments in public finances are gradually improving. The country's deficit by ESA in 2010 decreased from 5% of GDP in 2014 to 2.9% in 2015 and 2.2% of GDP deficit is planned in 2016. Under the Stability Programme, the sector balance is planned in 2017 at 1.6% and in 2018 at 1%. These are the numbers that tell us where all this money is, these additional revenues are going – to reduce the deficit of the state sector. And let me read what happened when the former Prime Minister came to power. When it came to power with optimism on 20 March 2013, the statement of 20 March, when it was elected prime minister in the National Assembly, announced the end of the savings and thus will once again turn Slovenia into a country recognised by the financial markets as extremely risky. On the first day following Mrs Bratuška's speech on the end of the savings, a report of the influential investment bank Nomura to financial investors was published in Bloomberg on 21 March to reject the fiscal policy of Bratuška's public financial consolidation, increase government debt and encourage further reduction of the Slovenian state's credit rating. This means, however, when a politician declares something that can have a significant impact on financial markets, which means that it affects interest rates themselves and has an automatic impact on the country's budget. If I can just take it one more time. Slovenia received a strong earring at the Eurogroup meeting in Brussels on Tuesday that it must move faster to address the excessive public deficit. Since the Bratuška government is greatly increasing the gap in the state treasury in the rebalancing of this year's budget, the question arises as to what is the prodigal policy of the Bratuška. Do we want this, maybe we want to increase the gap in the budget and re-energize the financial markets, make the ratings worse? You know, a good credit rating doesn't just come along. A good rating of international institutions comes with smart, calculating and well-planned budgetary policy and financial consolidation. That means recovery. This does not mean that in one year when indicators improve, we can go back to wasteful budgetary policies. Please also allow me to respond to some of the allegations that were made earlier this morning or to the Finance Committee itself, which we had on Friday and Saturday. One of the findings was that we have 1 billion more revenue than the previous government had in 2013. Again with the data. In 2013, the state budget ended with a deficit of €1.5 billion, representing 4.3% of GDP. Let me repeat, 4.3%. In 2016, the government adopted a budget which committed itself to reducing the government budget deficit by almost €900 million or 2.1 GDP. This is more than half less, which represents almost €700 million lower deficit than in 2013. This is what this government does compared to the previous government. Let me mention that due to high indebtedness in 2013, expenditure on domestic and foreign payments increased by 232 million. Despite the fact that more revenue from tax revenues will indeed flow into the state budget in 2016, this picture is not so favourable in other types of revenue compared to 2013. We estimate that compared to 2013 tax revenues will be lower by 22 million, capital revenues by 1.2 million, received by 22 million, and EU revenue will be lower by 306 million euros, which means that together compared to 2013 they will be lower by 350 million. It follows that the total revenue of the state budget will be higher by €712 million, not even a billion, but at the additional expenditure on interest compared to 2013 and the government's commitment to reduce the deficit to 2.2% of GDP, the government does not allow much manoeuvre. Of course, if you want, you can only represent one part of the story, just one interpretation of the number, and leave everything else alone. We also point out that in 2015 Slovenia came out of a surplus deficit procedure, many times heard, but this is what I think it is necessary to keep repeating that someone will finally be heard. It is said that the deficit in the state sector has decreased to 2.9 GDP and thus turned into a preventive part, which means that we will be assessed under even more difficult criteria. Thus, we are even more rigorously assessed in 2017, 2018. Furthermore, investments in health care. Expenditure on health in the period 2013-2016 is increasing and does not fall, as some in this Chamber claim. This applies both to expenditure from the State budget and to expenditure from the cash insurance undertaking. Compared to 2013, ZZS expenditure in 2015 was up almost 140 million and in the 2016 plan it will increase by 260 million. And you're saying that Dr. Mira Cerar's government doesn't invest, and he doesn't care about health care. The public health budget expenditure also increased and was higher in all years than in 2013, by as much as 32.5m euros in 2015. It is true, however, that investment in health is provided only from the state budget. For investments, more expenditure was realised in each of three years than in 2013, and in 2015 more than 24.5 million were realised for this purpose than in 2013. Also at the expense of European funds. These have increased and the integral have decreased. Let me mention a few medical projects. UKC Maribor, oncology, radiotherapy – 6.9 million; UKC Ljubljana, Neurological Clinic – 1.3 million; Oncological Institute Ljubljana – 2 million. In 2014, 2015, project construction of 10 emergency centres was financed from EU funds. Investments. In the morning hours it was possible to see through the graph a comparison of the budget resources allocated to investments. Only budget resources have been given to us, which is, of course, inappropriate or very poorly presented. We all know well here in the Chamber and many others before the screen that in 2014, the last year of the implementation of the EU perspective 2007–13, investments or investments made by the EU in relation to past years have doubled. We also know that there were then local elections, which further turned the trend of investment spending upwards. The same trend continued in 2015 as this trend subsided in 2016. If we compare only investment spending from the integral and dedicated items realised in 2014 and the plan for amending the national budget for 2017, we find that we have 128 million more investment expenditure on these items than was realised in 2014. Investments under this heading continue to increase by EUR 37 million in 2018 as well. And there's something else about pensions, where we've heard that the previous government has given more money. Although we have already said this, I think colleagues and colleagues from Desus will also explain it again. Once again, I think that one thing may have to be repeated here in the Chamber 20 times, but the 21st time maybe someone will understand or hear. The claim that EUR 300 million was given to pensioners in 2014 rather than to this government is absolutely not true. In 2014, the government gave the pensioners 50 million euros less. Once again, 50 million euros less in 2014 than will be given to pensioners by this government in this year and 156 million euros less by the government in 2014 than this government will give in 2017. I repeat, 50 million and 156 million. This year, this government harmonised pensions in January at 0.7% and in October at 0.4%, which has an annual financial impact of an additional approximately 35 million. Another additional explanation for pensions. In 2015, 2016, 2017, we are recording the trend of increasing paid contributions to the pension fund and consequently the trend towards a lower transfer of the state budget to the pension fund. The income structure of the pension fund shall not affect the amount of pension funds. The amount of the pension is affected by the number of pensioners, economic growth, the effects of pension reform and the legal provisions on the conditions of retirement. I therefore once again inform the former Prime Minister that the amount of pensions and pension funds are not affected by the level of the transfer of the state budget to the pension fund. However, it is true that this number is correct, but it is not the right claim that the pensioners have less. That's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you, too. I ask colleagues and colleagues whether anyone else wants to discuss this item on the agenda. I can see that. That's why I'm asking you to apply. Mr. Bell Lah, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. I would also add something to this budget for 2017. Above all, I would like to turn to the page where we are supposed to fill the budget register. This is said to be more done in the field of economy, especially attracting foreign investors. I am somehow following this situation because I am coming from a municipality that has a large economic zone in preparation and also a lot of foreign investors have already come forward, and they have an interest in transferring production to Slovenia. These are mainly countries near Slovenia, neighbouring countries Italy, Switzerland, Germany. The neighbouring Austria, however, is more likely to invite Slovenian entrepreneurs into its fields because they are more competitive. I feel that the government has also slowly begun to realize that there will be something to be done to make more money, to generate added value, and that even more money will flow into the budget, without dealing with just how we will spend, to spend what is being spent in the budget from taxpayers, from the economy, from those who create added value. But we have a bunch of obstacles. The obstacles are mainly that we are not competitive with neighbouring countries. The analysis made by the Ministry of Economy shows that neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria, Hungary, Croatia are significantly more competitive in this area. The main sources are the high price of municipally equipped building land, then high taxes on work, the cost of work is too high, especially labour benefits, and incentives for new jobs. All countries provide incentives for new jobs created by foreign investors. For example, Hungary is neighbouring from 4 to 8 000 euros. With us, however, the government only boasts that we have up to €7,000 domestic incentives there. For foreign investors and, above all, for the training of foreign investors. I asked the Member's question to the competent minister, who then answered me that there is no money in the budget for public workers, let alone foreign investors for new jobs. If we're going to act like this, we're going to need more money for public works and for the unemployed. We are already spending 170 million on the unemployed, over a billion for social services. We do not do enough to promote creativity in Slovenia, in order to ensure competitive conditions for our economy as well as for foreign investors. We are at a time when foreigners are returning production from remote countries where they have moved because of cheap labour, for various reasons they are returning to the European Union. Well, not just that. The company also wants to open its production facilities in Europe from remote countries because it is important that a particular product is manufactured in the European Union area due to different conditions and regulations. And here's our chance. We don't know her. First of all, the government doesn't do anything. Legislation in the area of construction and land management has been delayed for a long time. If you look at this government's normative work programme at the beginning of the mandate, when should this be? It's nothing. I will closely monitor how the government will succeed in six months in Styria, near Maribor to provide foreign investors with all the adopted acts and land purchases in half a year, which is a condition. Because we have the practice of doing so for at least five years. Under the current legislation, it is almost impossible. The environmental permit has been valid for a year and a half to two years. How this will now be adopted in six months is of great interest to me. It is not just the law of how to dissipate owners for a specific investor. It's already a problem for me, but it's not much done yet. The problem is mainly regulations, spatial acts, how to bring the matter to a building permit, all conditions. I'm not talking about building an infrastructure, who's going to fund it. The government has provided 10 million in the 2017 budget for this purpose, but this will probably not be enough to buy land, let alone build infrastructure. However, I am glad that the government has received some challenge, some interest, and many others have been published in all the media. And it'll be interesting how the government will handle this. Will it forget all the legislation in this area that we have in force and overtake this legislation? As one of the Members of Parliament said on the Committee: "No matter what legislation is in force, we must do so." You probably have to do this because otherwise the hall will be very large. However, I hope that sobriety will come here, that something fundamental in this area needs to be done. As economists have said, they find that all governments are 15 years behind the economy in the last ten, fifteen years that time has overtaken them. I totally agree with that. Now is the time when we have to cut when we have to jump from snail speed to supersonic, if we want to have no more strikes and I don't know what social arrangements that are going to last, I don't know how long, but without success, because it's just not going to be money. Money doesn't come from itself. Money has to be earned. If now, due to the exports and successes they record, the government boasts that we have economic growth, let us ask ourselves what the government has done for it. Nothing. Or less than nothing. I'd like to stress that, well, we'll see that now in a few months. I'm guessing we'll have a law on the table next month for exactly one investor, for one investor. I'll try, because I have one location, and I'll make a copy of the paste for another location, and we'll see if it goes through. With regard to cohesion funds and drawbacks. If there were not 10 cohesion projects that were prepared in the previous financial perspective, after major hardships, contracts have been signed and are already being implemented, they have started in the previous year, the drawdown would be significantly worse. And we've had a lot of effort to get them into this financial perspective and also into the drive.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the distinguished representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The budgets for 2017 and 2018 are the most important documents governing the conditions of operation of the State in accordance with their content. The old human river, which speaks of the end of money, is, of course, still quite up to date. The discussions on the coordination and parental committees show this. Desire is much more than financial possibilities. I am pleased, however, that in the budgets, there is a sense of developmental orientation and a reflection of the government's commitment to measures that strengthen competitiveness and the state deficit is declining. It should be noted that financial resources are increasing in all ministries, which means that the curve is turning upwards. Let me just mention a few of them for a little while. At the Ministry of Health, money is primarily available to reduce waiting lines. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Many Areas, including Training for Education in the Labour Market, Money Refunds, Grants, Nutrition of Students, Students and Students, for Long-term Care and for Many Social Transfers. At the Ministry of Education for Primary Schools, for kindergartens in particular investments in this case and for the nutrition of pupils, students and students. Let me also mention the Ministry of Culture, a major part for culture and civil society, for the media, cultural monuments and cultural heritage, for social rights in the field of culture. Of course, we will never be completely satisfied. Due to our prior high indebtedness, we have committed ourselves to a financial balance between income and expenditure. We're bound by the fiscal rule law, and that's not what this is about. In Desus, we are working hard to make wages worthy of regular work and pensions, not charity, but the right to a decent survival of healthy ageing. We are trying to adopt a demographic fund so that young people can also have the hope of a well-deserved pension once. We must be aware that a great deal of effort has been made and negotiations have reached a compromise agreement on the harmonisation of pensions of 1.15%, which is greater than the initial proposal of the Ministry. But it's still in fiscal frameworks. Due to the fiscal rule and other budgetary commitments, this proposal is the only one most realistic in the current situation. This means that we do not go beyond the target balance of pension fund expenditure, as decided in the framework of the preparation of state sector budgets. Slovenia is facing a trend of increasing poverty among the elderly, so several more euros per month after harmonisation will at least ease the social situation of the vulnerable group. However, we will also try to achieve, one day, that all pensioners will be regressed. Now let me turn to the above. Mr Tonin, the pension box office is not sustainable, since it has been emptied in the past to build roads and I do not know what else. Someone in the position today mentioned that we are modest in our demands. We did, or we wouldn't have survived from month to month. And we're patient. It was also said that day at that hour. I don't know about that. But I am very grateful to Mrs Potočnikov that this matter has been clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Urska Ban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I will repeat a few things and also give a few responses to the debate or my views. I am pleased that the macroeconomic situation has improved in recent years. We have more employees, fewer unemployed, higher growth, lower interest rates, if I just count some of them. But on the other hand, if we look at and ask ourselves in this context why we cannot just immediately relax completely all austerity measures, why we cannot just immediately spend the average that has been said today or even proposed to the government. Looking at the revenue from 2008 to the budget for 2018. From this data it is possible to understand that the amount of revenue that has stopped at €8.5 billion in 2008 will be achieved during the high-conjuncturing and growth period in 2017 and exceeded in 2018. And a more detailed view of this revenue. As I said, revenues in 2008 amounted to 8.5 billion, a forecast for 2017 included in this budget, 8 billion 846 million, slightly lower. And then the forecast for 2018 is 9 billion 200. But these revenues are not increasing at the expense of tax revenues compared to 2008. If you look at tax revenues in 2008, they amounted to 7 billion 685, and in 2017 7 billion 374, that is less than in 2017. Tax revenues are also lower in 2018 than they were in 2008. On what does income rise? In 2008, the funds received from the EU amounted to 363 million, the budget for 2017 provides for 900 million and more in 2018. So if we compare 2008 to the year we are talking today – 2017 and 2018, the revenues will not reach the level of 2008 until 2017. The increase in these revenues then goes beyond tax revenues in 2017 and 2018, compared to 2008, but on the basis of higher EU revenues. When I compared these revenues to 2008, there is a markedly lower realisation of corporate income taxes; in 2008, we realised from this title one billion 257 million, which is 571 million euro less than anticipated for 2017. So much for income. On the other hand, we still have a deficit, which is falling successfully.In 2013, it was already said, billions and a half. The forecast for 2017 is 681 million and then for 2018 305 million. So, we are still facing a deficit, and we do not yet have a balanced budget. We still have the debt of the country sector, which reached 82% of GDP in 2015. These are the data to be used for real operations when we are talking about the budget for the next two years. After years of financial, economic crisis, even now, the budget, even for these reasons that I have said, cannot take into account the decommissioning of all austerity measures. The budget must be moderate and must take into account the long-term and, above all, must take into account the potential for negative trends in economic and financial image globally in the future. For this reason, the stabilisation of public finances must still be a key and basic objective of this budget, a prerequisite for then discussing all other substantive burdens also on the budget expenditure side. How will this financial consolidation take place definitively, as foreseen in the budget, and is in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act? We're not talking about saving any more. We're releasing austerity measures. However, because I have stated that we still have a deficit both in 2017 and in 2018, the increase in expenditure must be lower than the increase in revenue. This way we can reduce deficits and in line with the fiscal rule, this means about 240 million euros a year. In this way, we will also reduce the burden of current consumption, because as long as we have higher expenditure than revenue, we still have to be in charge of this part. When we are expected to reach a balanced budget in 2020, we will then open up an opportunity for more public expenditure on the one hand or to remove those restrictions that we still have in force today, again because of the reasons I have already said. In this way, we will also reduce the need for additional debt. So much may be involved in clarifying why the budget is as it is and still includes some elements that have already been adopted in the past to limit public expenditure. What, though, does this budget bring to us? The stable payment of pensions, all social transfers to all beneficiaries provided by the laws in force, provides payments to public institutions, schools, kindergartens, social institutions, enables a stable business environment, low interest rates for all of us, economic operators, citizens and the country, to finance projects supported by the EU. And there's not enough of these projects. If we follow the fiscal rule, then, as I have already said, it is not possible, even though on the one hand we have economic growth, immediately and immediately release all restrictive measures, but they can be released gradually, slowly, as foreseen in the budget for all those major, most cost categories of the budget, both public sector salaries, both pensions and social transfers. If I move on to the means of a new financial perspective. Today it was said that nothing had ever been done. The government is 10. 11. 2016 addressed the report on the use of European funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020. And what does this report say? That up to now, EUR 715 million of projects, programmes and calls for proposals and 24% of the EU's available resources have been confirmed. Of this, some more than 591 million and 20% of the contracts already signed were paid out from the state budget and more than 37 million euros were paid out, representing 1.2 % of the available funds. I don't know. It's nothing to me. It should be known, however, that in this financial perspective, when we compare one and the other financial perspective, there are billions less resources in the global than we had in the past financial perspective. But we're still talking about 3.2 billion euros. And really, once again, it's not fair, it's not right to say that nothing was done, because the data, what I said, is really something to me, not anything. So much for this drawdown of European funds. As far as investment is concerned. Again, my thinking, my view, today has been compared to anything that can be compared or uncomparable. If I go back to the specific numbers that show a picture of how much we spend on investment. Yeah, generally, if I call it that, the funds for investments go down. Also because, as I said, investments are linked to the use of European funds, one billion less from the new financial perspective is allocated to the global. If we look again at the realisation of investments in 2014, then 346 million were earmarked for investments, and 474 million for investment in the draft budget, which we are considering for 2017, and 511 million euros for 2018. A fraction of that billion more revenue goes here, somewhere else, and we'll say that. However, something has already been said that even at the expense of deficit reduction. By saying that investments are declining, I am not convinced or told by specific information. But it is true, as I said, that EU funds are falling. If there is so much less in the global, of course every year will be so much less. Total investments in 2014 amounted to 1.1 billion, in the draft budget of 843 million in 2017 and in the draft budget of 2018 900 million euro. Of course, there will be a difference every year, for there is less in the globality of these funds. However, from the budget integral, given the limits I have said, we are allocating more resources for 2017 and 2018. So much for that. Retirement. I don't know, it's been said a few times, but I'm going to say things again. Mrs Bratušek said at the Committee on Finance's first reading of the budget that pensions are a huge category, a transfer to the pension fund for EUR 300 million. In 2014, 300 million euros were given to more pensioners than this government, 38 euros per month per pensioner. That's what she said. If the Member is of the opinion that the transfer from the budget affects the amount of the pension, this does not apply to my knowledge of the pension financing system. The transfer from the State budget for additional liabilities to the Treasury PPIZ is not the only source of funding for pensions and both categories are not directly dependent on each other. The amount of the transfer from the State budget for additional liabilities to the Treasury PPIZ depends on the difference between the revenue of the Institute by contributions and from other resources and the expenditure of the institution. This difference then covers the budget. In 2014, a total of EUR 4 billion 199 million was allocated to pensions, 4 billion 197 million in 2015, 4 billion 250 million for 2016 and 4 billion 356 million for 2017. This calculation shows that €156.6 million will be paid in 2017 for pensions more than was paid in 2014. So talking about how this transfer affects the amount of the pension, that's not true. Once again, in 2014, the government gave the pensioners 50 million euros less than it will give the pensioners the government in this year, and 156 million less than the government will give them in 2017. What, though, affects the amount of pensions? The number of pensioners, economic growth, the effects of pension reform and so on. This also reflects the effects of the pension reform in the PPIZ cash register, and consequently other positive indicators, the macro-economic indicators I have already mentioned affect the higher cash transfer PPIZ and consequently the lower transfer from the budget. However, this does not affect the amount of the pension, this transfer from the budget. So much for that. The summary balance sheet has also been mentioned today and we have discussed it in detail at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. Yes, I can agree that the Court of Auditors has for several years identified certain shortcomings, irregularities, but last year the Ministry of Finance has prepared a response report to this Court's opinion, where it has clearly identified how this situation will be rectified or how it will take into account the guidance given by the Court of Auditors. The timeline was, not that everything will be resolved in one year, but I think that in about three years, if I recall correctly, these guidelines and proposals of the Court of Auditors should actually be fully implemented. Last year, the Court of Auditors assessed this measure proposed by the Ministry of Finance as satisfactory. At this session of the Commission this year, the representative of the Court of Auditors confirmed this and said that progress was being seen in line with this timetable and that these matters were being resolved. But, as I say, last year, these were not mistakes since last year, but last year the Ministry of Finance specifically addressed these things, prepared a timeline, prepared measures, and this was considered a satisfactory measure by the Court of Auditors. Now it may even be about salaries in the public sector. I am sorry that this union agreement has not been reached, but I will point out here that the government has so far kept all agreed commitments. Savings measures have been released for 300 million and 200 for this year and 110 for next year. Of course, until all the austerity measures have been released, about 200 million or something has been said on the committees, so this arrangement would be urgently needed, or the government will probably have to unilaterally cut it down. But I still believe that this agreement will be adequately resolved for both sides and that the expenditure foreseen in the budget for this will remain the same as it is. Then we stayed in the fiscal world. Yeah, we don't even have a fiscal world, that's a fact. For us, a personal fiscal rule is very important to me in planning public spending and monitoring public spending. Therefore, the Constitution has also been amended in the previous term and the Fiscal Rule Act has been adopted in this mandate. The law was adopted by a two-thirds majority in this House. 7. Article 7 of the Fiscal Rule Act also refers to the fiscal world, mentioning all its tasks. The task of the Fiscal Council is also to give an opinion on the budget, to which the Government will then respond and to which it will be addressed in the National Assembly. Since the fiscal world is not, of course, we have not been faced with this opinion, we have not had it, we have only had an explanation of how the budget is in line with the fiscal rule by the Government, which was the drafter of the budget. There have been three attempts to form a fiscal council by the Ministry of Finance, if I am not mistaken, and then the Ministry representatives will be able to correct me. One of these proposals came to Parliament, we voted on it, we did not get support, I wish because we listened to the obvious that we did not participate well by the coalition or we did not cooperate at all, I wish we would. It is my opinion that we need this fiscal council, if we are to adopt budgets in a transparent way, also in the future, and that, if it has not been good now, the coalition will make this effort and that we will reach this fiscal council before the first budget report or the next budget reading. That's what I'd do for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister, the Secretary of State and the others here! I'd like to ask myself how we do the budget at home. Whether we have a fiscal rule, whether we have public sustainability and some stability, whether we have some debt and how we behave. Home, normal, careful. But when it comes to the country, it's a little easier here, so we can go a little bit to the left, a little bit to the right. However, if I sum up everything in real debate, I believe that the state budget, as it is, is considered a compromise between different desires and abilities. Whether that is correct or not, we can debate. It is clear that for the opposition it will certainly not be good, for us who are in the coalition is in some other way. Another issue in the discussion of this budget is developmental orientation, ambition. This is also worth discussing. We have two different approaches again. The opposition's approach, which is more or less critical, and ours, which we are in a coalition that is somehow consistent with what the government is offering. The next thing that is very interesting when we talk about this in our budget is economic growth. Of course, thank God, we're doing better. When we're doing better everywhere, and I'm applying again to how we behave at home, our appetites grow. So please us individuals as well as the appetites of the unions when we talk about the current situation. But it is true to say again that this government, whatever it is and whatever we already have on it, somehow weakens gradually in accordance with this and weakens these austerity measures, which are also for the public sector. Here we come again to this word moderation. Unions and all together fall down all these things and growth very quickly and should be shared immediately. And I think it's all about some moderation and calmness that we need to take matters. If we are talking about individual elements of this budget, I may turn a little bit more to the defence because I am in this committee, in any way criticising this government, but in the next two years 2017 and 2018, an additional 18.2 million and 39 million 2018 were earmarked for the Ministry of Defence, if we are looking at 2016. Whether it's too much or too little, it's a debate again, but the fact is that this is where it started to heal what was somehow neglected since 2009. Also, at the Ministry of the Interior, this has been managed by substantial resources since 2015 and 2016, but it must be clear to all of us that this is not working at once. We all want both the military and the police to have enough resources, but what they took from previous years is very difficult to catch up on quickly. If I go back to the budget, we also have additional resources at the Ministry of the Interior, it is almost 13 million for 2017 and a little more then 2018. And another of these ministries, which I kind of like, is the Ministry of Economics and Development. Here there was a lot of money available for tourism and to promote investments in Slovenia, so we came somewhere to 41 million in 2017 and to plus 51 million in 2018. Of course, we all want more here, we want the resources that are needed, but because of such and other matters they have somehow been taken away. Then it is difficult to talk about a virtual or meaningless budget, as we have had the opportunity to hear on the Committee on Finance and before. I think some moderation is always necessary. If I finish. It can be said that this budget is what it is. Some would say, Ma, there is not enough, in Primorsk, as usual, but others would say that it is actually in line with the current possibilities and resources we have. However, the government's task is to create better conditions for everyone, it is said that the budget is also raised, better conditions for the economy to work better, for the public sector to prosper and for investment to take place. In all of this, it is important that we be aware of the circumstances in which we live and that we cannot go beyond everything. Let me repeat once again, fiscal rule, some public sustainability and some stability, and this debt of the country, which is 32 million and somehow holds us down, but it has to start to come back concretely. This government is doing so within the framework of all this budget. So we have return and some investment and some intention to make it better. If you'll allow me to be a little rude and squeamish, it seems to me that I've been slightly punished in this budget, perhaps because of my badness, the Koper police station has somehow fallen out of budget. Why is that, we're not going to debate it. Even so, this unfortunate second track is still more in the air than it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much, chairman. Once again, welcome to all those who share in this discussion and also to those who are watching or listening to us! It is difficult after the marathon meetings of the committees, it is difficult to say something new after a relatively long debate today, except that we can all agree that the ideal solutions, the ideal rules, are not the most important thing to draw up budgets. Finally, the Pentagon and the ex-Red Army in the former Soviet Union did not have a completely unlimited budget, but these two budgets were very rich. Thus, the country of Slovenia does not have unlimited possibilities. However, as I hear from the debate, it has practically unlimited needs. Of course, we are limited mainly by the fiscal rule and the decree on the framework for the budget expenditure of the state sector, and within these limited documents we had to draw up the budget we have prepared. In the coalition, we are defending this budget, assuming that we understand it as such, that it will have no negative effects on the economy with all its limitations and that it will not, at the same time, forget the most vulnerable target groups. There were a few words on the subject of reform. When I hear about the reforms, I start to get honest with my hair. The reform itself, by definition, brings nothing positive. There are always some additional restrictive measures. Last but not least, these former reforms, such or otherwise, successful or unsuccessful, have also shown. Speaking of changes, I prefer to talk about changes, some evolutionary, some gradual changes, and it is true that we will have to take them into account both in the field of health care and in the field of pension and disability insurance. But I must warn you here, dear colleagues, that in circulation or light we have a so-called white book on pensions, where certain guidelines are written or presented, how legislation in this area should function in the coming years after 2020. We have an excellent, ideal opportunity to, I won't say we're having fun, but to start dealing with solutions that might be good here, some, I'll tell you right now, when I read this white book, they're not good, and they'll need to be modified. But now we have the opportunity to think about it slowly and to come to those conclusions that, for the first time, will have long-term sustainability, especially financial sustainability, and more importantly, will have positive effects for people, for those who will enjoy the fruits of the past work. And now it's time for that. Finally, the latest changes in the field of so-called PIZ-2 also have effects. As a result of this, more money has to be spent on the pension allowance, resulting in fewer funds being transferred from the budget to the pension fund. For this reason, they are nothing less than a pension. On this occasion, when we talk about the budget, I would like to see that hole of 200, 280, I don't know how many millions, which are somehow sounding as a result of the union and government, have not yet reached an agreement to fill it as soon as possible. A good journey to the adoption of this budget and, as a result, a restrictive law will not be, so I want things settled here and that we are also patient here, as patient as Desus was with regard to his demands and wishes for at least a little pension adjustment. We're glad they're getting a little better, but we're not gonna end up here. I'd like to make one more point. I would also like to point out in some way the unheard - of wishes of local communities, municipalities. I'm not going to let go of too many or too many. Such a question is always readily raised in such discussions. We all come from a local community, we are all citizens of a congregation, and I would also like to see the state and the local community more listen to each other and reach some compromise. It is impossible to expect that the wishes of the municipalities could be fully taken into account and that they could be integrated into the budget, while it is justified by the municipalities to expect that the state would listen in certain areas and not burden them excessively with some of the stateless administrative obstacles and some new tasks, but that it would leave them with what is actually the basic point of the local community, the municipalities, their autonomy to manage the tasks and not least with the assets. Let me finish. These are, of course, not documents directly linked to the budget. In the coming years, I also expect two key laws that will reflect the needs of all of us, some at this very moment, and many in the next few years. This is certainly the law on the demographic fund that we plan to establish, or the law must be brought to life in the following year. The demographic fund must become an independent financial institution and, at the same time, the most important, a guarantee for the sustainability of long-term pensions and, in particular, we want the law on long-term care to be brought to life and that, at the end of the day, both competent ministries in the integrated concept of social and health care are harmonised and people are given such a law. And for the end, I believe in this budget, I believe that those with 9 billion and several billion resources will have or believe the executive branches of power, that is, the ministries, ministers and ministers, that these funds will be used, used, as it does, so that there will be no limited economic sporadicity of the country, but that in all their walking or pursuits with as much rationality as possible, economy and other economic terms will not be affected by people, those who cannot take care of themselves from such or any other point of view, and that the country must then step up and help with all its efforts. I believe that this budget will be socially fair and economically successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, President, nice greeting to everyone in the hall. Dear colleagues, especially those from the opposition you have already discussed today, I must say that I would still like to believe you or believe your debates, but believe me, if I have learned anything in these two years in this national assembly, it is quite impossible to believe all of this. Already in the debate, I think I started Monday's debate at the meeting of the National Assembly and we will also start it today with the same sentence. We live in a country where the government, which does not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, knows what case we are dealing with. It does not respect the decisions of the courts, and we also know what case it is where the ministries do not respect the legislation, here I will focus mainly on the Ministry of Finance and essentially, and the one who warns about some irregularity is punished, not the one who did it. Once again, this government does not respect the laws that are a fact. I must say, this morning, when I listened to the Prime Minister in presenting his position, I was a little surprised when he said, "We followed the legal and constitutional commitments." What's the matter, respectable! All those members of the Committee on Finance, which we have been to at least Friday and Saturday's meetings of the parent committee, we know this is not true that the adoption of this budget violates the legal obligations. That's a nice thing to say. I must say that sometimes after such 12 hours of a committee meeting I am very tired, but given what happened on Saturday on the Home Finance Committee, I must say that it was very interesting and no tiredness, no boredom was present. On this parental committee, our colleagues in the coalition have taught us a lot more when we, what legislation, we are now doing in accordance with the parliamentary practice introduced by this coalition. So now, dear colleagues, we are now working in accordance with parliamentary practice. More than in the Slovenian Democratic Party or in the opposition, we argued that in no way did all the conditions for the consideration of the draft budget on the Home Committee, except today at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Coalition heard us less. Why? In particular, for those who have not been on this parental committee, I would like to say that because this procedure essentially violates the Public Finance Act and, consequently, the Fiscal Rule Act. Little has been said about the Fiscal Rule Act, see the Fiscal Rule Act in Article 7 accurately defines the tasks of this fiscal world. The Fiscal Council is preparing an assessment of compliance with fiscal rules on the basis of a proposal for a state budget submitted for adoption by the National Assembly. Furthermore, in the second paragraph of Article 7, or in the third paragraph, it further states that the Fiscal Board shall prepare and forward the assessments referred to in the preceding paragraph to the National Assembly after submitting a proposal for a State budget or a balance for adoption by the National Assembly. I'm asking if maybe any of you have that grade. We're sorry we don't have any. It is clear as a white day that this fiscal law is being violated. And if I go on — why isn’t this assessment, which, of course, should be? Of course it's because there's no fiscal world. The Fiscal Council should also be established under the Fiscal Rule Act in accordance with Article 16, which states that the Government should issue an application for the application of candidates for members of the Fiscal Council in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia within 15 days of the entry into force of this Act. It's called the Fiscal Rule Act. This was published on 10 June 2015. So this is Article 16 of the Fiscal Rule Act. I must tell you, my fellow Members, we are the only EU Member State not yet appointed to the Fiscal Council. It was also interesting to hear an apology from the Minister of Finance why there is not yet a Fiscal Council. I'll read it. I quote. "As regards the appointment of the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Rule Act provides for the period within which the appointment procedure is to be initiated. The law provides that members of the Fiscal Council should be registered by means of a call for tender. However, I checked to see if the candidates who were registered at the last public tender could receive support. I have estimated that this will not be possible, so I have also proposed to the Government that people who have applied for public tender should not be exposed to public treatment because they will not be able to receive support. And by doing so, I think I have fulfilled my obligation in a responsible manner." And where is this now? The fiscal world. I don't have a chance to ask the Minister if she thinks she's fulfilling her obligations. I think he is still well aware that this will still have to be fulfilled. Given the process of adopting a motion for a decision on this parental committee and working in accordance with parliamentary practice and so on, I must say that at the end of this meeting, and also today's meeting, I will not be surprised if the coalition does not confirm any amendments to the opposition. Once again, today's draft budget is not in line with the legislation, I hope that we are all alone, the budget is not in accordance with the agreement of the municipalities, or the municipalities and the ministry are still diversging. Although the congregations are mainly rural development generators, somehow this government has no obedience to the congregations. Dear colleagues, I appeal to you when we talk about the average, each of us comes from a congregation, and I hope we are aware of what the congregation is doing and what all the congregations do for the benefit of all of us. Next. We also have no agreement with the public sector unions, because there are as many as ten million in this budget, but we have a statement of doctors and so on. Although the government claims that we are successful in recording economic growth, I must say that, except on paper, I think that, above all, our citizens, for whom it would be very good to feel it, do not feel these economic growth at all, but they hear in the media. If we have such good growth, then I ask the coalition and the ministry, why are our young people going mainly abroad? Eight thousand people leave each year. In particular, they are young people of education. Do you know how much the state spends on their education? If we have such economic growth, I wonder why we have statements from public sector unions, why we have a statement from doctors. I have to get to this area, too, that's for sure. I'll tell you, even though you'll smile at me again on the other side, on the side of the coalition, the only thing we recognize here in the opposition is what you do well, but it's the manpower. No doubt, that's what we're congratulating you on. I would really like to stress here once again, the budget is not just numbers, behind these figures in the budget are the content and beyond these contents are our citizens and our people. We can't take this number carelessly. And indeed, half the mandate is already behind us and how many speeches were in your coalition contract, how many speeches were at the beginning of the mandate, what reform changes await us for the benefit or for a better standard of our citizens – and what do we have here today? Nothing. If we have anything, we have union statements and doctor statements. I'm a little sad when we need 20, 30 million in some area, this ministry is so hard to build together, but when we need it, for example, I'll say at home, to set up a Jewish company, it's some kind of economic enterprise, but we'll find 20 million and 20 million more for guarantees, or if we go on to set up other companies like 2TKK and so on. But when it comes to finding 10 million, 12 million for our citizens, for those living below the poverty line, we know that there are more than 290 000 of them when we need to find a few million to eliminate too long waiting lines, which will undoubtedly increase with this statement of doctors when we need to reconcile wages, including pensions, and somehow run out of this money. I don't know if I'd say we're running out of money or maybe even the will of this government. Last year, I said that I was very interested, given that this is how you like to do the analysis, especially at the Ministry of Health, it would be good to see how much additional burden there is for the economy and for the individual and how much burden there is for the economy and for the individual, how much we feel in our pockets. I think they're fighting a little bit. If I go to the 2017 budget, we have read what the priorities of this government are, namely, health, science, infrastructure and security. This is all nice and right, although I would add at least a few more areas here, if not, but I would have arranged everything differently, or maybe a little more for these priorities than the government. Look at why I'm saying this. Health, the government has recorded, in its view, that the priority of this government is health in 2017. Bravo, I'll sign right away. But when we look at the budget, we can see that it has devoted only a good 13 million more to it than it did in 2016. Whether this should be one government priority for 13 million, I ask you. On the other hand, if we look at it, see, the priority of the Ministry of Public Administration is nowhere mentioned in the Government's priorities. But if we compare the budget of the Ministry of Health, which is roughly the same, real health has 94 million in 2017 and the Ministry of Public Administration has 95 million. But the Ministry of Public Administration got plus 22 million, and it's not the government's priority. The priority of this government is health, which has received 13 million. I may get some answers, at least I want someone to tell me that I'm wrong in this debate, but the fact is in this budget. Look, so many areas within health care should be regulated. I know, the ministry in some areas of work, and also here in this government's position, there are measures in the field of health care, preventive checks, harmful drinking, treatment of children with special needs, support for programmes for different forms of addiction. But, look, you need to be aware – what about long-term care, palliatives? But what I miss the most is not saying that I resent the Ministry not to include the area anywhere, I'm going to say a little funny now, suicides. Thus, we are aware of the number of traffic accidents on the road each year, and below 200 deaths are in these traffic accidents. None should have happened. But every year, almost 500 people take their lives in Slovenia. Do you know what that is? I think there will be a lot of work to be done in this area, change programmes in the health institutions or even some programmes can be prepared for these people and offered appropriate professional assistance, or we will still be the first or the first three in the European average in this area. I think this area really calls for extra funds and after doing this. Finally, I will only say that reforms that are not in this budget are needed. Unfortunately, this government is somehow merely prolonging the measures that have been taken and increasing taxes. Once again, every government should have a clear objective, a clear strategy for these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are still in the general part of the draft amending budget. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Ms Marija Janc, State Secretary, representative of the Government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Dear Members, honourable Members! Let me start with the introduction of what we have heard today at the beginning that budgets 2017 and 2018 are not legal. The Government has submitted two legal draft budgets to the National Assembly. Why? Because they're prepared in accordance with the Fiscal Rules Act. Since they are prepared in accordance with the documents sent in spring to the European Commission's Institute, the Stability and Growth Pact. And because they are prepared in accordance with the Decision on the maximum amount of expenditure for the state budget, municipal budgets and both treasury public funding. It is therefore impossible to say that the proposed budgets are not legal. It is true that the proposed budget has not been approved by the Fiscal Council. As early as Saturday and Friday, we heard a debate on the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance about the whole history of the appointment of the Fiscal Council. Some of this has also been presented today by one of the Members, so I would not repeat it. The budget really isn't just numbers. The budget is also content. And where do we find this content? This content is found in the third part of the budget, the so-called Development Programme Plan. And that's where you find all the content. If I continue to look at the use of European funds. When this government began its mandate in 2014, it had the following situation. Slovenia was among the worst in drawing on European funds. 19th among 28 countries. Slovenia did not have prepared programming documents, a partnership agreement and an operational programme. Slovenia had no drawdown system set for the period 2014-2020 and did not have the regulatory framework necessary to draw on the funds of the new financial perspective. And where are we today? After two years of working for this government, Slovenia has risen from 19th to 4th since the success of European cohesion policy funds. Slovenia is among the eight Member States that have been able to fully absorb all possible financial resources from European cohesion policy from the old perspective. In 2014, Slovenia reached a budget surplus of 633 million in European funds. Although the budget surplus was lower in 2015, 446 million, 5 % of the so-called retained funds to be received in 2018 should be added. Taking this into account, European funding is €651 million, which is the largest since we are in the EU. Slovenia paid EUR 834 million from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2014 and 916 million from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015. Both results have been the best results since Slovenia received European cohesion policy funds. A partnership agreement was agreed with the European Commission in November 2014. In December 2014, an operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy was agreed between 2014 and 2020. A regulatory framework for the implementation of European cohesion policy was set up in 2015. Guidelines for the implementation of this policy have been prepared and the implementation plan of the operational programme has been adopted by decree in 2015 and has been supplemented several times. To date, 141 decisions have been taken to support individual projects amounting to EUR 776 million, and these funds are available for project implementation. If I can sum it up. As far as European funds are concerned, 45 % of the funds from the old financial perspective have been drawn up in the last two years, in 2014 and in 2015. From a new financial perspective, 776 million projects and just over 500 million signed contracts have already been confirmed. As far as interest is concerned. The fact is, as long as we have a deficit in Slovenia, we will also have so much debt. If we spend more than we create, the difference is nowhere else than in debt. One of the Members compared how we do this at home. Exactly the same. If we need more, we have to make a deal. However, it has to be said that despite the amount of EUR 988 million foreseen for interest in the coming year, this amount has fallen sharply, with a billion of 59 million in 2016, this is an estimated realization, but it is reduced by more than EUR 60 million. As far as pensions and medical bills are concerned. There have been some discussions on this subject. The fact is that from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, although there is still a planned transfer of EUR 300 billion, this transfer has fallen significantly compared to the previous years, about EUR 300 million, which does not mean that pensioners have received less, but, as has been said several times, they have received about 50 million more compared to 2014. Investments. Investments are increasing. If we compare investment consumption from integral and dedicated items, this amount has indeed decreased compared to 2014, because we need to know that this increase is the result of the completion of the old financial perspective in 2014 and 2015. This year, it is estimated that €835 million will be earmarked for this purpose and €843 million for the 2017 draft budget and €56 million more for 2018. This means that investments are increasing and investments are also co-financed from the state budget. There was something about freeing up all the austerity measures. Everyone would want them, but we need to know that the financial capacity of the country, as required by the Fiscal Rule Act on the one hand and, on the other hand, to adopt a decree on the maximum possible expenditure of the State budget, is such that the larger manoeuvre space does not allow us to reduce austerity measures. The austerity measures are being phased out, an additional 200 million have already been paid in the public sector this year, with what has already been agreed on increasing by an additional 110 million in 2017. Similarly, pensions are increasing, or not as much as they would like to, and as much as is envisaged in the area law, but they will be harmonised by 1.15% in the coming year. It was also said that investments in health have declined and that there are not so many investments in this segment. Resources to enhance the quality of health services, one of the priorities of this government, will increase by 25% from the state budget in 2017. This will also increase health-care expenditure, which will exceed €2.6 billion. The largest investments in health care include the Diagnostic and Therapy Strip North with Ljubljana urgent, the establishment of a health dispatch service, the fire rehabilitation of the Oncology Institute and UKC Maribor, the equipment of the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, the implementation of an investment in the Disabled Youth Department Stara Gora and the acquisition of expensive medical equipment for several public health institutions. And for what else? An increase of €20 million for the MJU is being implemented as a centralisation of the real estate and IT system within the Ministry of Public Administration. This will improve real estate management on the one hand and, on the other hand, allow greater digitisation of public administrations. The funds have only been transferred from individual state authorities to the Ministry of Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. If I make it a little easier. In the previous budget, so one year ago, Mrs Janc, Mrs Vraničar, Secretary of State, was sitting where she was now sitting, and she represented the budget and not the Minister. Mrs Janc is now sitting and she represents the budget, not the Minister anymore. When Mrs Vraničarova goes, Mrs Janc will be Minister, and, I don't know, the lady next to her will now represent the budget. Is that how it works in this government? On Saturday, we heard on the Committee on Finance about how great the situation in public finances is. You have drawn an ideal state of how you drink honey and milk and so on and how everything is okay with this budget. But it is the length of the debate that has drawn almost to evening that testifies to the fact that this budget is not as good as the government wanted to present in its work. Mrs Janc talked about how bad things were in 2014 and how you have now completely recovered public finances in two years and how everything is fine. But who was the Secretary of State until 2014? Mrs. Vranitzer. Then she was the secretary of state, and now she's the secretary of state. In some ways, the Secretary of State criticised the work of her predecessor, the secretary of state, who is now Minister. Now, to return to the opening presentations by Prime Minister Cerar, who said that the preparation of the budget for 2017 is prepared on the basis of a budget framework decision and represents an important shift towards improving the quality of public finances, both in terms of predictability and transparency of public funding planning. Look, if something's not right, then there's a lack of transparency. We have an open budget without a law that has consequences there for up to 300 million euros, and we have a budget that is not prepared in accordance with the implementing law on fiscal rules. The President of the Government has concluded with a sentence, these budgets, for 2017 and 2018, are focused on the future of Slovenia and therefore we strive to build this future together and confidently. Once again, I ask how many amendments the opposition has approved on the Committee on Finance if we are preparing this budget together. I can't say you won't be met with intelligence, and you won't be able to confirm that at the National Assembly. But so far, I ask if the President of the Government gives clear instructions that you are preparing these budgets together, so it is for me, if we are talking about the National Assembly, the National Assembly of the Opposition and the position together, how many amendments the opposition should therefore support. Mrs Banova, President of the Finance Committee, spoke about what all this budget provides. It provides social transfers, pension payments, provides a stable business environment, funding projects from European funds, provides funds for social transfers and so on and so on. This is the basic function of the budget. Every budget must ensure this, and therefore, in the opposition, we also always say that this is a pillar of guidance and a key financial document that defines the next two years. This is not a success if it ensures the payment of pensions. That's not a success. It's self-involved. That's why it's the budget that doesn't go out. The budget should therefore be adopted. Talking about it is about as much as talking about wearing a suit. That's why it's a dress to wear. All too often, it seems that this government boasts of pure technology, with technical matters, and this represents some kind of great success. Look, Comrade Ferlug said, "This budget for the opposition will not be good, but it is in some way for us." Once again, I draw attention to the words of Mr Han, the leader of the Coalition Group of SD. I quote: "I must say that I am personally in great difficulty, in any way, to present the position of the Group of Members on the budget when we do not have an agreement with the social partners and when ladies and gentlemen have this moment a 300 millionth hole in the budget." Are these now completely diametric positions, otherwise Mr Han then announced that he would support the budget, but this is because perhaps without a budget, the coalition is doomed to a rapid decline. But in any case, the coalition Members also find that this budget is not all right. And if I continue to quote Mr Han: "But I must say that it was not expected that after a good two years of economic growth we would be able to grow before the most difficult budgetary tests when it is more than five past twelve." So it's almost as big as in the crisis phase. But what's the difference? The difference is that some other government, which, despite economic growth, reduces unemployment, faces major difficulties in preparing a fiscal framework. Probably if there was another government, we wouldn't have these problems. And perhaps, Your Honor, this government has no real negotiators. Not with the public sector or public servants, not with doctors. We have already warned that there is no real negotiator with doctors, since we have had an interpretation of this subject or against this person, but the coalition has come together and supported its minister because she has apparently feared for her positions. But look, it may sometimes make sense to think about changing a negotiator, but dilemmas and disputes resolve themselves, especially if, as you say, the situation is as good as you are trying to convince us. Mr Ferruga also said that with this budget we will go a little left and a little right. I want to know, with the 200 million Euros for consultant 2TKK Dragonjo – where are you going, to your left or to your right? But this dilemma is great. 200 million. In the same breath, Mr. Ferruga said, "The second track is still in the air." Look, you're putting 200 million, 200 million in the budget for a project that's still in the air. 200 million. However, you can deny 4 million euros or how much is missing for those least paid public servants in group J. You are not in the air. They are very tightly pressed to the ground and are imprisoned under the weight of the financial burdens they are pressing in everyday life, while some Dragonja, who here in her previous post achieves the maximum negative assessment, is then employed as a consultant in a phantom company that is otherwise state-owned, and a total of two people, i.e. two persons, the director and his advisor, receive 200 million euros with this budget. Well, let me know if that's transparent. In this respect, I think that this budget is very selective, and not with the main priorities that the Prime Minister of the Government wanted to present in the introduction, but with regard to the capital wishes of individual lobbyists, which have already grown considerably in this government. I apologize to the president of the Committee on Finance, who is well-managed by the Committee on Finance, but I have to say about one statement when she said, "My opinion is that we need this fiscal council." See, this is not an opinion that we may or may not have, or the fiscal council is a matter that is set out in the implementing law that has received two-thirds of it has been voted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly on the basis of Article 148, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. So it's not something that a coalition could make up because it fits or doesn't fit. With full awareness, Members have confirmed this provision and this provision must be implemented. So we all know we have to have a fiscal world. In the meantime, what happened? 22. 9. 2016, while it was not yet outside the Memorandum, the Minister of Finance prepared a proposal for a government, which was subsequently confirmed, which states, published on the Ministry of Finance's website, "the search procedure for members of the Fiscal Council has been halted". So the government knowingly stopped the appointment of the fiscal world. She knowingly stopped looking for members of the fiscal council and, therefore, knowingly decided to violate the spirit of the constitutional amendment of May 2013, when a new Article 148 was introduced and then the implementing law on the fiscal rule that defined it. And don't cheat. Mrs Jancheva said earlier that two laws are legal because they are prepared in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act. 7. Article 7 of the Fiscal Rule Act refers to the fiscal world and the positions and tasks of the fiscal world. And if you look at the second paragraph and the third paragraph, which says that it must prepare a fiscal council for the Government and for the National Assembly to assess the sustainability and consistency of the public financial policy and to assess compliance with fiscal rules on the basis of the draft state budget. So two documents, even before this budget is even in the National Assembly, and just before this document is in the budget, the Government must draw up a written reasoned position on the basis of an assessment by the Fiscal Council. These two budgets are in the National Assembly without three documents, two documents of the Fiscal Council and a government document based on the documents of the Fiscal Council. And you shudder for the fiscal world and say that it is not appointed, because the law is really just a task to start the appointment process, but you know what it's like, if it starts, it probably has to end. Because otherwise we will have you, Mrs Janc, next year as Minister, and you will say again that you have already started the process of appointing the fiscal council for the third time or for the fourth or seventh time, but because you have not found the majority, you have not appointed it and you will find it next time in the next budget. In short, without three documents, these two budgets, you say that everything is fine with this budget. The chief of one of the coalition parties says he's having trouble with this, but he's going to back him up because he believes you'll agree. Ministers, one and the other, negotiate unsuccessfully, negotiations fail or end without success, there is a 200 million-million-dollar gap in the budget, which I do not know what we will support, in other words, this budget is one big problem, not as the Prime Minister wanted to present in the introduction that it is predictable and transparent as no one has ever done before. If anything, this budget is a big step back, it is not well-founded and completely ignores the will of a large part of the electorate. This, however, does not take into account any proposal by the opposition's amendments. And sorry, such a budget is not prepared in the spirit of cooperation as you would like to present it in the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much for the president's words. Dear Members, Members, distinguished representative of the Government, welcome! Today we have heard the position on the budget balance 2017 and on the draft budget 2018. At present, the proposal for a rebalancing for 2017 is under consideration. But I have to say, this morning it kind of freaked me out, there was a whole government team sitting here, and 90% of them were dressed in black clothes. And I got a little cold, whether it's just an accident now or because of the topic that we're dealing with, that's the budget balance and the budget for 2018. But given what we heard on Friday and all day on Saturday and not finally here today, maybe there's something on it. A little joke, but in general I don't remember the case that the budget would be adopted on the basis that we accept today. Really. It's a chaotic condition. You have open fronts with doctors, you haven't aligned with the public sector's salaries, your coalition members have highlighted this, they're obviously worried about 200, some say 300 million euros, and last but not least, the fiscal world has not confirmed them as it should. The government has not given an opinion on the basis of the documents of the fiscal world, and here we can really ask ourselves what we are doing here today, and whether we could actually accept these two budgets. Not anymore than it's obvious. Tonight, there will be a committee sitting down that will or will not confirm some law, which is also the basis for what we are adopting here today. Why? Because you simply do not know or find a suitable way to find a dialogue with the social partners. And if you haven't made it today, I don't know what the difference will be today or tomorrow. Let me remind you, it was very similar on the employers' side there before summer. You function in a way that you present your already assigned proposal and expect the opposite party to accept it. You are not acting in a way that is actually looking for some social dialogue to find the best solution together. That's exactly what's causing the problems you're having. Given that you have considered for more than two years the Government of Mira Cerar and that no so-called reform has been adopted in more than two years, although almost all ministers have been promised at the beginning, it has certainly been said that health is our priority. Yeah, it's been more than two years since this, there's no health reform. There is no pension reform. We know that the one that was adopted in 2012 is sustainable somewhere until 2020, which is fast approaching, and something in this area should start to work. It was said, I don't know, public sector reform, justice reform, the education system. None of this was done at the time. And if ever, the government can do something, it can do something at the beginning of the term when it has the greatest support of the public. If you have not done so in the first year or at least in the second year, you probably do not intend to do so in the future, as is evident also from the documents we have here before us. None of this is evident from the documents. The Secretary of State said that, thanks to this government, drawing on European funds was so good. That 45 % of the old financial perspective was drawn up in 2014-2015. Yes, I agree. But why didn't you tell me how much you've drawn from the new financial perspective? And that's where you were talking about contracts. Yeah, well, then tell me how many contracts have been concluded before. Do not pass the apples and pears together. Compare the same data. And not the last time it's everywhere. Over the last two years, the financial perspectives have been concentrated the most. Everything else is being prepared, but it is being prepared earlier, the contracts are being concluded earlier, all procedures must be done earlier. But, yes, this number has really fallen into this mandate of yours. Probably, however, it is also due to some other government before this government. Of course, we are all very happy that these funds have been exhausted to such an extent. But don't brag about the past. Please tell us what happened in 2016. How much was pumped? Last but not least, the new financial perspective from 2014 to 2020. It's been almost two years. You said, yes, because they were documents, the operational programme was adopted in December 2014. How did you take it? It's totally self-involved again. Did you take into account what the world of the regions said? You noted at the time that the requirements were to have two separate operational programmes. No, you chose one. And today, of course, what is happening is added. Therefore, we cannot talk about coherent regional development. Certainly not in Slovenia. As far as the priorities you've highlighted are concerned. One of these priorities is investment in health care. The Secretary of State has done a very good job with all the projects in this area that will be made through this budget. You know, what I'm really worried about, and what I've asked a lot of times, or somehow got a satisfactory answer -- yeah, where's the emergency center Ptuj? Why isn't that among the priority investments? The question raised was the question sent, and the answer was that the funds were provided in a special account. Why can't they be visible from the budget? Why not? But if we have the Ptuj Emergency Center item. If we are doing a rebalancing, then transfer these funds from 2016 to 2017, in a way that they will be visible. That everyone will see them and that indeed those who live in that area can be convinced that building the emergency centre Ptuj will actually do something. Finally, it is about 120 000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who live in an area that is not privileged in any way, but I think we all deserve the same quality services. I'm so worried, why can't I just hear it? As far as the finances are concerned, I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has maintained so much sanity that they have retained the research and development and investment facilities at the level set out in the last Janša government in 2012, and that you have also found, together with economists, that this means some progress and that it actually facilitates business. I am pleased, but I am not pleased, on the other hand, that you have raised the tax on the income of legal persons. Of course, in the budget rebalancing for the budget itself, this is very good to see, which means that in some ways you are expecting revenue of EUR 107 million from this very title, which is encouraging for the budget and not for the economy. On the one hand, you like to talk about economic growth, you talk about how everything is cool and nice, you like to encourage, you say, exports are growing. Hold, great, encouraging; but you cannot in the end strike just after those who are most deserving. By raising the corporate income tax, you did just that. At the time of our adoption of this law, the minister said that this tax would not affect everyone. Yes, it won't touch everyone, touching those who make profits; those who do well touch. And you're hitting your head. Whatever you think, this could also have consequences for job cuts and also that Slovenia will be even less interesting to foreign investors. We are already on the tail of countries in the European Union and we are outnumbered by almost all comparable countries. On the other hand, we are still witnessing that, despite the fact that there are some benefits that we can see from the budget, there is no, the state does not intend to withdraw from the economy. This is an absolute problem, state-owned companies, otherwise some act positively, but they act significantly worse than other companies that are competitive with them. We should be doing a lot better, but no. Why not – because they exist exclusively for the purpose of concluding individual advisory contracts, legal contracts, pyarial contracts for media financing and the like. That's in your interest. It is also in your interest that any other company is more supported, even though there are no state-owned enterprises in other countries within the European area, and this is slightly different for us. If we look at the composition of revenue in the 2017 budget balance – what do we see? In order to generate €8.8 billion in total in the budget. Around 100 million more than originally foreseen, most precisely from this tax increase on the income of legal persons. If we look at another such larger contribution to the budget, there is a value added tax. Here you have overestimated yourself in the adoption of the 2017 budget, because now you are correcting it down. But let me remind you: last year, you took this tax, the value added tax, at 22%. You have adopted a measure that hurts all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You've promised more than that. More. More than obvious, because you are now reducing this figure by 40 million euros. Where are the reasons? The consumption, you say, is increasing; yes, exports are increasing, something is definitely at the expense of exports. I agree with that, but I don't know, you may have promised yourself a little bit more than the introduction of tax boxes or where the reasons are. However, I absolutely believe that this is absolutely unnecessary and that it was a false measure because it was considered a temporary measure at the start and you have knocked it down and in some way imposed a new tax. If we look at the structure of the expenditure. Together, we have €9.5 billion of expenditure in the balance sheet for 2017; €104 million more than originally planned. Almost a billion, a little less than a billion, we're paying interest. Everyone can imagine what they could do with this billion euros, how much investment in the country could do with this money. It's probably a lot better spent money than it is to pay interest. More than a billion euros are paid by public servants, current transfers are worth more than €5 billion, of which 1.2 billion euros to individuals and households, and 1.4 billion goes to social security funds for pensions. 1.4 billion euros! And you still don't think it's necessary to start talking about a new pension reform! Yes, more than likely, you will have to bite into this sour apple in a very short time. As far as investment is concerned, we can't talk about billions anymore. Investment expenditure is EUR 0.5 billion and transfers slightly over EUR 300 million. I'm sorry. Which suggests that this budget is all about development. These projects that have been exposed – yes, there is nothing developmental for the country here and not least all these praises, as long as we get less in the budget than we spend, we cannot say that we are doing well. Sorry, we can't. I personally believe that the budget, this 2017 balance, is more about saving at the expense of investments, because there is no investment, probably more or less due to the preservation of social peace, so that it does not necessarily involve the necessary reforms. We will be able to say very similarly for 2018, you have obviously decided in this government that you will do nothing in this area, and that it actually shows additional burden on the economy. What you've done. For that small payload of one small part, you have put an additional burden on the economy and I believe that you will invent something new in this area during your term of office or at least, I don't know, complete this real estate tax that you are already predicting. However, it must be realized that as long as we have a well-functioning economy, we can also have a developing country, because the most resources come from the private sector. However, the public sector, which has also been told that there will be some reforms, should be as good a service as possible for citizens and citizens and, last but not least, for businesses. We hear a lot of times in the field what kind of country this is: on the one hand we have people who are not employed, one who are looking very hard for employment, and unfortunately they don't get it, some are also fit for the situation, because not least through social benefits they get as much as someone who works for a minimum wage. If we compare these groups, I don't know, it's hard to talk about a fair system. I believe we agree on these things, but unfortunately, through this balance and in this direction, there seems to be no movement at all. I estimate that it is not going in the right direction, so of course I do not intend to support it. As far as the amendments are concerned, I truly regret that no amendment of the opposition has been confirmed on the boards. It's a similar story that happened last year, so we're kind of used to it. But I hope that you may change the tactics a little bit, if not the tactics, and that at least now you may accept some of our amendments at the plenary session, which, last but not least, follow those objectives that the Minister has listed as priorities. It concerns investments in health care, investments in infrastructure, and I estimate that they are still developmental.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! As a matter of fact, when I was not in politics in the past accompanying the National Assembly when it adopted budgets, I never realized that 90 Members would vote in favour of the budget. He was always supported by the coalition, and the opposition was against or abstained. So I tell you, I don't know, I don't remember, you're gonna fix me, because you've been here for a long time, and I'm happy to get this information. This time, too, I do not expect you to do this because you will never admit that the budget is development-oriented and that this budget or budget 2017 and 2018 is actually good. Mr Logar also said that a simple budget is something in itself conditional, like putting on a dress, but I say that it doesn't matter what kind of dress we wear, even a dress makes a man and a budget – I think that for this budget we can say that it is development-oriented; that it follows the objectives of infrastructure, science, research, health services, safety in a broader sense; supports investment in human resources, digitisation of the short, Slovenian finance and the stabilisation of public finances have also been reflected in budgeting, improvement of the quality of public finances also show credit ratings of agencies. [[…]] Negative 2013 ratings are now positive estimates, and gradual structural adjustments are also visible. Last but not least, we have stable growth in the economy, private consumption is getting stronger, consumer confidence is getting stronger. In short, all indicators of statistics, however, and also of the autumn forecast of Umar are encouraging and positive. I would also like to stress the recovery of the labour market because, for the first time, all employment agencies have seen a reduction in unemployment, including in Zasavje. All three units, all three congregations in Zasavje, reduced unemployment; and for the first time, 300. This seems extremely important to me because this suggests that economic growth continues. Of course, exports are also growing, investments in hardware are increasing, a 6% increase is foreseen. When you somehow stated that there was no money for investments, it was too little. Of course, we would all like more money for investments in the integrated budget, but in combination with European funds, this investment cycle will certainly increase. As regards European funds, I also need to give some information, because there have been a lot of delays in drawing on European funds. It is true that the use of European funds for the 2007-2013 perspective was as high as 45% in 2014, 2015, and when our government took place, in fact, this pumping accelerated and so we moved from 19th to 4th place. However, I would also like to point out that this period ahead of us is 2014-2020, that the full implementation of this programming period, that already 776 million projects have been approved, which is more than 20%, and that 141 projects and programmes or public calls have been supported in early November 2016, including a project to build a highway section of Gruškov – Dražans amounting to 63,5 million, 9 environmental projects in the field of waste and drinking water, a number of programmes affecting work with the unemployed, trainees and young people. In short, Slovenia is also finalising the accreditation process for the European Cohesion Policy 2014-2020 and the funds set out by the national budget will be reimbursed for these projects. In the process of accreditation, it must be said that all neighbouring countries are also, and we also expect this accreditation to be easily confirmed by the end of the year. All programmes in the field of cross-border cooperation of Slovenia with neighbouring countries Austria, Croatia, Hungary, Italy were also confirmed and the first tenders were also published at the end of 2015 and 2016. In short, we cannot say that European funds are not being used up and that everything is not going according to the programme. What I would also like to stress is that these projects, which will be in the field of European funds in 2014-2020, will be priority investments, targeting investments in human resources, research and development and innovation. As a result, these are softer content, as a result, projects need to be negotiated; not just one municipality, more municipalities, more areas. I was recently also in Austria, and there 22 municipalities presented themselves as having agreed on a project. I think that we also need to learn something about partnership and cooperation in Slovenia, and I think we should follow such examples. As a result, even as these funds are channelled into these content, there is consequently less funding for infrastructure projects. We must not forget this, nor should we deceive people, that there is therefore no successful pumping, because there is less funding for infrastructure, but there is more for other projects, including social and community-based projects and softer content. What I would also like to point out is that there is no kind of multiplier effect on infrastructure as well. Here I would like to point out that there is a multiple effect, especially in the field of energy renovation of buildings, because here the Eco Fund now has calls all year round and all construction companies for this renovation or individuals, natural persons, as well as public institutions can also appear. This energy transformation is also expanding to partnerships where they can also participate, and this multiplier effect is evident from this title, as there is an increase in employment in construction as well, there are more employees, and construction is indeed being revived as well as areas of manufacturing, technologically more demanding industries and also public services. In the processing industry, more than 5,000 800 people are employed, in market services 6 000 300 and in public services 3 000, but this does not mean that it is a closer state administration, but it is a service in education, health care. In short, the number of unemployed fell below 95,000. So far, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Franz Ly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! We've been discussing for a few hours now, and I'm going to try to focus on the part that may have been least mentioned. We are most likely aware that this is a fundamental financial document of the Government, and not least of all of us. I cannot agree with those statements that this is just a matter of coalition. Yeah, because eventually they're gonna have to take responsibility and the government. This is clear to me, you can ignore us, not a problem, but then not expect cooperation and support in those laws that may be even more important than the budget. That is why we do not yet have a fiscal world, and that is why I am absolutely convinced that this budget is based on extremely fragmented foundations. Many things are open, negotiations with the social partners are open – this has already been mentioned by the coalition – a 300-million-dollar hole hangs Fine. [[…]] How do we fill it? Yes, only at the expense of reducing the investment capacity of the budget, which, last but not later, will clearly have a negative impact on economic growth and the future inflows into the budget in the coming period. Of course, as a result, the dynamics of European funds will also be reduced. If that's what we want, I think we're on a very bad path. And if these horses don't slow down, so do these appetites by public finances, and if there's no order and there's no improvement in the management of public funds, these horses are likely to escape and this wagon will stay here in the swamp. But is that what we want? I don't think so. It is therefore necessary that you treat us as an equal partner throughout the process of adopting this document. I think it's the right way and the right way of democracy, not just looking for the most open. You know that. You know that. That's the kind of action that I'll never agree to. To return specifically to the 2017 budget. The Secretary of State said that all laws and legal requirements were respected and constitutional requirements were not. At least one marriage I know it is, and marriage vows are broken. This is the Development Support Act of the Pomurski region. Why are we hiding the truth? The law and the law of rights guaranteed are violated. Will we accept such a document here, in the National Assembly, with which we will break the law for the entire region? I don't think that's right, and it's awfully double-crossing because some are governed by laws, but others aren't. How will citizens accept this? I don't know. But let me tell you, for a very small amount of money, about 3.5 million, extra. But let me warn you, on the other hand, we're just throwing money in the mud with a shovel. In particular, European funds for the rehabilitation or decommissioning of the Ormož sugar plant, the state of Slovenia will have to return 8.7 million euros – nothing! I cannot agree with such matters. On the other hand, we cannot at least have the legal rights that are already so self - imposed and should respect them, but not because there is no money. It's not like that. But I think it's very important that we finally start to realize our opportunities and abilities. Your Honor! The budget is running out, so the projection is ready, 8.8 billion. Consumption is higher – 9.5. O.K., but we need to be aware that any increase in expenditure is a very big problem and any promise made in the negotiations that they will relax and in what way these measures will be released, austerity, I think that this is terribly unrealistic and irresponsible because we know that there is no reserve here. What can happen is that if these people live in one false hope, it will be a revenge. I'm sure that's not right. We must be aware that our country is too expensive for the extent of the national economy that it is, and we must start living with what we have at our disposal. Let me point this out: indeed, the deficit of the state budget is shrinking. Here. Now €681 million is planned. That's fine, but if we look at any more, what's going on with the public debt? However, public debt is around 83,5 % of GDP and is not nominally decreasing. Once again, nominal, which, of course, is not good. On the other hand, we see that the Government will receive an additional debt of EUR 3.46 billion. Of what's right, it's about refinance the outstanding liabilities of 2.7 billion, but 1.7 billion is a lot of other things. To conclude, I might add this: we appreciate what we have. We appreciate this and be socially responsible and those funds that we can also spend on investments, should indeed be invested in those projects that will be beneficial, which will bring added value and which will also be socially beneficial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Please sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. In this debate, I would like to take as a starting point the words of my colleague Shergan, who, among other things, said that progressive structural adjustment was perceived in this government — among all that she listed. I don't know exactly what she meant by that, but I'm gonna tell you what it really is. Today, when I spoke in the position of the Group of Members, I have already said that there are no measures that are insufficient if we have increased revenues and we also have money reserved to increase expenditure if there are no measures to do so. How, for the first time, this money is better used, how it is more cost-effective, more cost-effective and how it can also result in a better result. It is also evident, or from the budget documents, that you are increasing money for health care — for health of 13 million. What are the results of this? For me, because it's very real, it's a smaller kind of waiting room. But that's not the result. There is neither written nor any way to achieve this result, which means, in other words, that it is simply a question of how this money will be spent effectively. Another case — which I have here, and because the Minister of Education is present — is supposed to give 85 million more for education. 85 million are supposed to get more money from the Ministry of Education. What are we gonna do about it? So it's a billion 500, 600 or so, plus 85. Anyway, big, plus 85 million. So I'm going to ask if that's why students are going to graduate from better colleges. By the way, a while ago, I looked at where Slovenian universities were on one of the good college scales, and one of the colleges was there between 500th and 600th, which was better, and the other was between 600th and 800th. That's what's going on in the world. You can say that the scale is not real, but also on some other scale you will probably not find Slovenian colleges among the first 300 or the first 100. Will they have better testimony to say that they will have more knowledge and will simply ensure better life, greater prosperity? What's the result? Will even coming to Slovenian colleges be foreign students? But I'm going to say, because they're going to want to live here because they're going to want to study and because it's actually going to happen? No, no, no. Now you can tell me that there are quite a few foreign students coming in under different programs, but look, these are exchanges and so on. And we know that students want to go to good colleges and have, of course, good schools. But now these schools are somehow measured, I don't know if it's real or not real, I wouldn't even go into it, but that's, that's what we have. If I give these two cases, it is therefore a simple question of what we will have out of this money and where are these structural measures, which Mrs Shergan has been talking about, that this will actually happen. I am afraid that these structural measures are not actually there. Here I must say that the only structural measure that may have had some effect, but perhaps not as large as it was in the public eye, is the structural measure for the introduction of tax registers in this government. The promised changes in the area of health – they are not there, so I do not know how this money will be spent effectively. In the field of education, I am also afraid that something will not happen much here, perhaps in the field of primary education something and so on. I would like it to change once that students, students, students have free literature, that absolutely, not only books, but also work volumes and so on, but this probably won't happen here. And that's what he's worried about, because this government is going on with this budget essentially without any action, of course, with good economic growth, with a favourable external environment, without any action. It has also been said that we are negotiating with the social partners, we are talking to everyone else, and so on, I think that you need to be very clear here, without an agreement on salaries is actually this budget, I will not say invalid because it is valid, but it is without any content. [[…]] Why? Yes, because it actually hangs 300 million and the budget has to be real and we can't start by increasing the debt by 300 million, that's almost 1% of the gross social product, and then we don't have the deficit as much as you say, but we have 300 million more. We can't do this through reassignment and so on, it's not good, it's not good, it's not professional, it's not professional, then you're going to put something on your salary and so on or you're going to put it into this government or ministry. The fact that you do not have an agreement with the social partners is particularly surprising because two years ago you, this coalition, especially the largest SMC party, talked about how you will take the public into account, how you will take into account the professional public, the social partners, everything will take place on some agreement and so on. Now we have the sentences of the statement, the forecast of the demonstrations, and so on and so on, and this is not the case with the budget. I don't know, we've got doctors now, maybe we'll have teachers in May and June; in short, it's usually time to study before graduation. Now, of course, this is the question of who did you actually agree with? The municipalities are making their amendments and local self-government is actually in a situation where at least some municipalities are barely paying their obligations and also reducing the services provided to citizens and citizens. Look at this agreement, too, and you have not fully reached it. While you have proposed a higher average of €s for a few, there is no real agreement. I would not like to see a budget rebalancing in one month or two months from now; that is to say, in 2017, one month or two months from now, the budget rebalancing for 2018. I certainly wouldn't want that. The extent to which this budget is development-oriented. Here we have, I mean, completely different watts or different criteria as to what actually development is. I've already said that some in this room are mistaken myths that the government will increase prosperity. No government increases prosperity. The government can create conditions for entrepreneurs, the economy, to increase the welfare of people and to have excellent conditions for their work, these conditions relate from taxes to administrative permits, to the work of bureaucracy and so on. The government has received 8.7 or 8.8 billion from taxes and other revenues and now has to redistribute them among the social groups; it has redistributed them more than it has received taxes, so it has a little debt, and that is essentially how this cake will be cut. But with this only prosperity or prosperity itself will not increase anything. It was actually creating an economy, it was actually created by people. As a result, this budget is not enough to create conditions for better management and for new investments and so on. A typical example or proof of this is that there are simply no direct new investments, but very few of them and we are here on Europe's tail. Moreover, foreign investors go to other countries because they have better conditions there, and we accompany them with an awkward situation when the Minister of Economy plans a new economic zone in Styria, already gets a major investor, and on the other hand, the Minister of Finance or then the Secretary of State increases the corporate income tax by 2% and the Government does so. That's the wrong signal. It's a bad signal to a foreign investor, it's also a bad signal to a domestic investor. That's why they're not coming, and that's why we're here on the tail, and that's why we don't have any investments. See, today we talk about investing in the second track – by the way, this has been discussed since 2006. I do not agree that if we do not invest very quickly in the second track, and then we will be late, we will miss the train which will lead north and towards Munich and Austria and so on and towards Hungary. This train's already been delayed. The same was said in 2006 when we negotiated, the then government with Deutsche Bahn and then Mr Möderndorfer was here and so on. The same story and this story, the train has already gone, Trieste has developed this time, the river has developed and it is gone. It is totally irrelevant for the global economy and for the European economy in this regard. And don't do anything big now, because this big one is really gone. All options have been lost more or less. But this second track, we have as many problems with these 20 kilometers along the line as some other countries with 2,000 kilometers or 20,000 kilometers, when the trans-Siberian railway between China and Russia is being built this time before we are 20 kilometers away. Not to mention this investment as some I don't know what kind of investment. It's like the roads. Our administration, our bureaucracy is too slow to build a 10-mile highway within two years. That's impossible! We take 30 years for every road. But these are the conditions and we have created such conditions if you want, and this budget only makes these conditions worse. As a result, it is not now a matter of support or support that we are against the budget at all, we are against this budget because it is too ambitious, because it is not development-oriented, too development-oriented and because there will be more money for education, more for health, and so on, for whatever else, for all ministries, except for two, because there will be no action on what will actually happen with this money. And not only what will happen – what will be the effect? Better universities, shorter waiting periods, what's gonna happen to that? What will happen in the area of social policy? We don't know that either. While there may be higher social benefits for some, at the time of the recipient's death, it is likely that he will lose his property, which we discussed a few months ago in the National Assembly and which the Minister of Labour actually supports the family. As a result, so many and so many people have lost or given up a protective allowance, and this budget does not end. See, because of such things that directly apply to people, I am against such a budget because it is also not transparent and because it is not ambitious and because it is underdeveloped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, secretaries of state, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings! I feel that with each day of the rule of this government we have a less healthy atmosphere here in the National Assembly. How would some like to defend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, or the budget rebalancing for 2017, when we already have problems at the beginning? The final report of the Court of Auditors for 2015 cannot be completed at all because they do not even know what you dreamed in 2015 and how you have scattered the numbers within the state budget a little bit here, a little bit there, and for the first time in history the Court of Auditors cannot do its work. At this starting point, you dream about how the 2017 budget rebalancing is top-notch. You dream even more about what we will talk about later, the 2018 budget. So, the Court of Auditors is the first problem. Second problem. The fiscal rule we have in the constitution is an implementing law and the budget should be discussed by the fiscal council. But this coalition that's kicking in here and there with constitutional changes, on the other hand, is in violation of constitutional order, it doesn't do that. In short, we do not have a fiscal council which is a prerequisite for, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law, the adoption of the budget. After the coalition, in particular certain Members, tries to claim on every whim how fine and fine it is, we receive on the parliamentary bench the seizure of craftsmen, economists, if you also want roof organisations and local communities. And yes, the greatest losers of this period until 2018 will be craftsmen, economists, congregations, for what you have given them as an incentive – about what you keep saying. With each other's law you choose one of two options: either higher taxes or more red tape for these people. And then you dream about this successful economy, and on the other hand, all the data shows that economists are moving out of Slovenia, and foreigners are still avoiding the Republic of Slovenia, because when they see what red tape is waiting for them and what taxes there are, they prefer to go to those countries that you have – for example, at least members of Desus and SD, I know, there in 2008 – laughing when we talked about a single tax rate and compared us with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, you laughed at us. Now, ask those who go abroad, the Czechs and Slovaks are some notion of development. Slovenia is becoming that ugly duck, not from the center of Europe, but there from the rear at various meetings. In addition to the economy and crafts, other losers of this municipality budget are. Otherwise, we have heard in the introduction that municipalities receive more averages, but I have obtained quite a few concrete information that this rise in average is not enough for what you have given to the congregations this year. However, wages have risen in the public sector and different things have risen and we have more work to do; in short, you are boasting about how you have given municipalities more in the field of average, but that was not enough to ensure the normal functioning of the municipalities. And if we know how the government is on the one hand and the congregations on the other, when the state boasts 530 euros of average, then the calculation that is in the law speaks of 636 euros of average. But this government is a pianist government over what you've been providing, a social dialogue – with your left hand you blow away the congregations, but you have so much courage to brag about how good you are for the congregations. When we talk about municipalities, we also talk about investments and investments. Just today, Umar said again that the key problem in Slovenia is the lack of investment and investment. And we have here not an absurd moment when state secretaries and ministers often say that there are no European calls, but today we are listening to another story about how we are most successful at European calls. How can we be successful in European calls if we listen at other board meetings, how there are no European calls and how there is no investment? The municipalities are going crazy every time they look back into the Official Journal and at the websites of the ministries, whether there will be a call by the state, but they are waiting and sometimes they say, at least every year, they were exactly, on time, certain calls in almost all areas, and now there are no such calls. And then the state brags about how energy recovery calls are. Just a little brat. In those to you infamous governments of Janez Janša, we had two calls for energy rehabilitation of buildings owned by local communities. At that time, the European Union gave 85% of the funds, and now you are bragging about the country giving 30%. In short, when the congregation pays taxes, it will have none of your energy rehabilitation buildings. On the other hand, in the area of local self-government, you adopt a strategy for the development of local self-government, where you gradually destroy local communities and force them into certain tasks, certain powers that they do not want to exercise and are not their legal material. Of course, some of the losers in this budget are farmers. Fortunately, Minister Židan also has European means to appease the Slovenian farmer, but on the other hand he destroys him: tax collectors, carriers, or under a new charter of accounting, higher penalties, more red tape, set up his state company in the field of forests, wants to play a role in the Fund of Agricultural Lands before borders, renters and neighbours in the purchase of agricultural land; in short, nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside and criminalisation of farmers. It is not surprising, therefore, that the government that said how it will coordinate with everyone today has open fronts in all areas: with the Chamber of Commerce, with the Chamber of Commerce, today you will fail to conclude the public sector consultation and, if we look, almost every minister has at least five, six open fronts. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think about how you will close this front budget in 2017, take a look at the Government's work plan for 2017. None of the reforms, because the deadlines for more important laws that would affect the well-being that you, of course, want – are moving towards the end of the mandate. However, laws shall be adopted in accordance with the position expressed in the SMC Group’s position — higher privileges. Yes, certain groups will have higher privileges! But who do these higher privileges know — exactly you! They are not congregations, they are not agriculture, they are not crafts and they are not an economy. For example, this government boasts enormously about how it will accelerate investment with the budget. And we have some dream about the so-called construction of the third development axis, which ignited when the Minister of Infrastructure was on the ground during the interpretation. But I am sure that at least the next two, three years or at least two years will certainly, as far as this government is concerned, only talk about the third development axis, and maybe there will be a few kilometres of analysis and some more caves will start to take concrete action. He's also dreaming about the second track. A company shall be set up, a deposit shall be made and analyses awaited. On the other hand, we have the largest investment project in Posav in this mandate – the completion of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava. And for this project, there is no euro in the budget balance for 2017 or in the budget for 2018 for the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. And then the Environment Minister, who is in charge of this project, has to say to the Posav people, "You have to wait for the environmental consensus." And that's what the Minister for the Environment says! When I spoke earlier about who has higher privileges, we all know, at least the 3,000 new employees in the public sector and the state administration, who have mostly received jobs because of, as they say, ties and acquaintances with members of the largest or all of the three coalition parliamentary groups. Earlier, it had been said about cooperation with the opposition. At least something has always been given to the opposition at the time of each rebalancing or adoption of the budget. In the last ten years, there have been quite a few cases where in the SDS Group we have supported the budget of the so-called left governments or the opposite has happened because we have received something. But more stubborn governments and coalitions than the one in the coalition contract have not yet been written. Nothing that the coalition suggests can happen. Nothing. See the 2017 budget rebalancing. What amendments will you be in the style of today's President of the Government, "all of us will accept", which amendment will you support? I have not yet heard the word of support for the amendment, and everyone is urgently needed. But this is exactly the problem of this government, every other day a new priority. When Minister Gasperšič is intertwined, transport infrastructure is a priority for two days. When the Minister of Education is on the ground, the education system is a priority for the Prime Minister of the Government. When we have a doctor's statement, priority is the health system and waiting types. But only two days of pianic atmosphere, which you completely forget in two days, because you have other priorities because of the problems you're having yourself. In short, I mean, not only is this 2017 budget rebalancing some scientific fiction, without the basic parameters, such as what would happen in 2015 and 2016, because the Court of Auditors does not even know how you decipher this budget. Also because you do not have a fiscal rule, the de facto balance of the budget for 2017 is scientific fiction. For tonight, you have called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, where you will, in fact, overrun those who have elected you – the public sector – in addition to all interested organisations. And here Mr Han was already the one who predicted what would happen – soon early elections, because you obviously do not know, not only what one party is doing, and what the other party is doing, obviously not even individual ministers know what they are doing. What will continue? Those dreams of how the next budgets will be even better will be even worse, because not only do economists go abroad, but young people go abroad too. And how you will fill the budget if, with each departure or economic operator or young person who would deserve to have a job here in the Republic of Slovenia, you lose that little mileage that is called income, which is the key source of every budget. And if we know that you are waiting for European funds out there somewhere in the corner, we know that this story, called the 2017 budget rebalancing, is going to end very, very badly. Not only unfortunately this coalition, but also unfortunately citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. The meeting has been held for about 6 hours and, in view of all that has been heard at today's meeting of the National Assembly, as well as the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members and the responses of the professional public and the media, the conclusion of this debate is whether we will conclude this debate now or in a few hours, only this award question for what, but the prize question is: how many rebalancings will be needed. The fact is, despite the high level of ethics and morals that have been heard about social dialogue during the pre-election campaign, the respect of both the opposition and other partners, I think that you have literally overturned all your commitments and promises over the past two years, and it is no wonder that somehow people's confidence in some institution of parliamentary democracy is falling strongly. The policy led by this government, and unfortunately for the last few governments, has led to an intergenerational conflict. Unfortunately, we're not in the mood to change that. The abolition of volunteer traineeships, that is, the exploitation of young workers and young people, is said to be much; nothing is done. On the other hand, we have less than €300 million in the budget for pensions, which amounts to €60 per pensioner. Here is also the question of one of the coalition parties: What did she do for the pensioners? I cannot agree, however, that Slovenian politics has literally been hitting the whole of the Slovenian economy and of those who create added value for several years. Let us recall when, in the time of Minister Cuffer and Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek in the National Assembly, we discussed the increase in value added tax. At that time it was said that this was only a temporary measure. But what happened to this temporary measure when we unfairly and unjustly take any more? Such a temporary measure in Slovenia always becomes a permanent measure. I don't want to touch you, but I have to do a higher profit tax. In Slovenia, we are on the tail after the tax on profits between the Member States of the European Union and literally national sport has become that this tax on profits is being hidden. Bureaucratic obstacles, such as valuations, tax rebates, bureaucratic barriers to agriculture, this is already kind of a traditional folklore and a traditional proposal from a government, I will say, coming mostly from the public sector. We have to ask ourselves who will open up new jobs if not the economy. Maybe we can open 30 new jobs in Parliament to change the constitution and say we will have 120 Members, but I don't know where you see any measures to improve the employment area. With these bureaucratic obstacles and new taxes, which you are introducing in essence from month to month and what new proposals are coming, the conclusion of the story is that we punish or punish those who work. People aren't even motivated to work anymore. Because on the other hand, we have a so-called social state and people who work and who don't work come in the same month. During the migration crisis, we also discussed a lot about the issue of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In the international community, many ridicule us, not just because of the situation in the military, but when it comes to talking about it – we committed ourselves. So, it wasn't a requirement of a relationship, then, to increase the defence budget, but this commitment was made by Prime Minister Miro Cerar. And what happened? The resources for the defence budget will not be increased. We have soldiers taking leave to go to Austria to work to earn some money to survive. The defence system and the Slovenian Army are dying on meals. And it seems to me that this is even the desire and determination of some members of our government. My predecessor also said something about coherent regional development. As a citizen of Slovenia, I agree that our capital, our capital must be developed, modern, beautiful – I will sign right away. However, we must not forget the Law on Harmonised Regional Development, which states that when investing in local communities, strategic projects are also taken into account that those municipalities and regions that are less developed receive more resources. That is why I do not agree with the fact that, overnight, the President of the Government in Ljubljana remembers that he will sign 300 million euro of new funds and, on the other hand, we have a mural statistical note, a saviour statistical note, a natural statistical note, and he could also list, where he literally stagnates everything. Jobs in the regions are not because infrastructure is poor and could still be listed. So, unfortunately, it won't go any further. Not to mention the Slovenian countryside and agriculture, which, due to some trends and support of only elites in agriculture, has already collapsed, the number of farms has collapsed catastrophically. But as long as this agricultural elite, of course in Slovenia, is supporting such a policy, also implemented by Miro Cerar, I see no change for the better. On Twitter, I read that the job wrote or in a presentation of views that there are more resources for privileges in the state budget for the next two years. I was just wondering if that was true, which I'm reading if it was a mistake. But it wasn't a mistake. In fact, this was presented. Look, in my opinion, and when I'm talking to citizens on Ptuj or somewhere else, I hear we're all thieves here. Maybe there's more money for the elite, and the fact is the middle class is disappearing, and more and more people are the same. But the same in poverty. I don't think that's what some people fought for in the war for Slovenia. Earlier, if I am going somehow towards the conclusion of the debate, I think that one coalition member has said that this budget is not left or left, it is a little left, but it is a little right, but it seems to me that people and the left and right and these debates already have a full case – but it is entirely justified. This budget is for me, to be honest, nothing. Zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. In the introduction, the Prime Minister of the Government expressed his expectations that this budget would receive broad support, coalition in one way or another, and he also relied on the opposition's support. However, it must be said here in the introduction that this budget is very difficult to support, because it does not have any specific objectives. No matter what we focus on, no matter what will drag this car forward, but it is a budget where everyone gets something, probably because of economic growth all the more what will happen in the end, otherwise we will see, because the budget is one, the realization is another, but that is how it is. Given that we have experienced poor growth so far, not the very best among those with whom we want to compare and compete, let's take, I don't know the Baltic States or these countries of Visegrad, we should probably put together in budgets a goal to make the country have higher economic growth, faster development than those countries that represent the main competition for us to release all obstacles, bureaucratic and others that keep the country inflexible. The main problem, some have already mentioned, is that state administration, state bureaucracy sets the pace of development of the country and these people are not responsible for anything. The minister has an interpolation, he's defending himself, usually very bad or not, but in the end, he's the winner of this duel administration. I must also say here that I am also disappointed that they do not adhere to the fundamental demands of the coalition treaty. There you have written a broad agreement with partners, such as the Economic and Social Council, and in fact a key coordinating institution in the area of not saying budget, let it be pay, let it be taxes, let it be public financial policies and so on. One group left the Economic and Social Council a long time ago, it's about employers. This is said, for the economy and the Chamber of Commerce or Crafts and the economy, the other part or most of the other part is being prepared for strike, but they are trade unions of the public sector. So, the system's not working. As soon as the Government submitted the budget to the National Assembly, we said, also at the College of the President of the National Assembly, that this budget was fictitious. tabled solely in order to meet the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the Public Finance Act. The budget was not covered. He's not locked up, and he's not even closed today. I think that under such conditions it is extremely difficult to work and convince the opposition, which by nature is somehow more critical, but for God's sake this budget should only be supported, which is not known how good. He's not good; he doesn't have politics and he's not locked up. Respect for the rule of law is on the dog in this mandate. The President of the Government does not respect the commitments he has made, does not respect the commitments under the coalition agreement, do not respect the constitutional principles and solutions and laws, do not respect the constitutional decision. The main violators, however, are ministers with their departments. How will you convince someone that the budget is good if it is made on the basis of a violation? The fiscal world is only one of those things that is not taken into account when accepting this procedure. That there is something wrong with this budget also shows that the government here boasts about reducing the unemployed. At the same time, you say, the government also says that 3,000 additional people have been employed in the public sector and every job in the public sector is at least 30 000 euros, which means that for the country the additional cost is about 100 million or one sixth of the deficit. Only to finance an additional 3,000 jobs in the public sector. I'm asking if that's normal. We need such a dispersed state apparatus that produces a bunch of forms. Some of these were listed, which have been further introduced – this is what this country needs, this is a programming objective, this is a substantive objective, is that I do not know what the goal is? Only cases such as overemployment in the public sector require an increase in taxes. Otherwise, you can't finance this, let's say it's excise, let's say it's transaction taxes, let's say it's VAT law, let's say it's all the other things you've adopted in this mandate and you're still planning. This, in my view, is not the right approach. In the budget – I will stumble at only two items – you have an estimated €300 million in financial claims and investments to increase capital shares while you have 200 million planned from dividends. If we have more than €10 billion over all these institutions, two of them are newly established, SDH and the Company for Claims Management, Bad Bank Claims and so on, we need to give, recapitalise state-owned companies for 300 million euros, but we get back, or we plan 200 million Euros of profits, and then there is something very bad about this governance in this country. We have a negative management of state property. Negative management. All those here who advocate how we need to have a state environment, how we need to have state property, make sure that we get something out of it, not just to get a recapitalisation bill. What is the objective reason that after the recapitalisation of banks, when we put 5 billion into the system, there is something left of this banking system that is still a negative management? And these companies still need the budget money to survive. Managers in these institutions have salaries about three times higher than that of the President of the Government – in these institutions, such as those to be recapitalised. Because they are constantly repeating and creating some new companies that need only budget money: 2TKK, State Forests, everything works only by getting government money to operate at all, but they are engaged in commercial activities. And nobody asks themselves in this government whether we do things right, do things right, do things right, do things right, do things right, do things right, do things right, do we have the right set of personnel on these institutions or don't have them. For 2018, to make no mistake, you are also planning, if I am not mistaken, a negative matter. 112 million is expected to be dividends and 200 million will be a state contribution to state-owned enterprises. What's the point of losing 80 million euros again in 2018, because some state-owned companies do not work. And this year or 2017, 150 or 200 million. We make a deficit, one third of the deficit is created in this country to cover the losses of the state sector, state-owned enterprises that should function commercially or generate profits. If this is a good budget and if this is good governance and good control over the management of state property, then drop down to those who advocate it. I say that this is extremely bad, and let all those who are unable to survive in the long run ask for health. Any manager set up by the State should probably first make a mortgage on his assets in case he does not do as the legislation foresees. But nothing happens to us. If anyone gets anywhere, there are some quasi procedures that never end or are filtered by institutions; after six months, he is in a new position, perhaps even better paid than he has done so far. That, I must say, is extremely bad. As regards the definition of the amendments we have tabled in the SDS. At one of the Committee's meetings, I think that was on October 19th, the Minister of Finance said that these amendments were not to be supported in any way because they were taken from items that should not be taken. She said that at a meeting of the Committee on Finance. There Pogačnik asked her – first of all he told her that not one of our amendments, which we tabled 14 or 15, was taken from the items she listed. He asked her for an answer, and the secretary didn't say anything. This same flat-rate response also meets us today at a meeting of the National Assembly — the Government of Amendments does not support us. At best, it writes that the amendment is technically feasible but does not support it, even if it does not take it from items with which it cannot be taken under PS. And no one is responsible for that claim. The secretary just said that, and that's it. You know, when we defend the budget or the solutions we put into the legislative process, we just can't behave that way. If the amendment does not meet the conditions for consideration, the President of the National Assembly shall simply reject it. The moment the amendments go to review the amendments when they are part of the legislative process, they cannot be deleted with their left hand. They require a clear explanation, a correct explanation and a statement of why the Government opposes the amendments, not saying that they take from European funds or reduce debt or anywhere. That's not how it works. In this part, I must say, the Government, in this case, was not correct in dealing with the budget and these amendments we tabled. And then the Prime Minister of the Government comes and I'm the Minister of Public speaking, and they say what they expect from those who have properly tabled the amendments, but because they are opposition, they will not support them. However, the budget ahead of us is not suitable for consideration in the National Assembly, and this could also be found by the President of the National Assembly that there is no closed budget, which should by definition be, but also does not have mandatory constituent documents, one of which is the opinion of the Fiscal Council. Once when there was no fiscal council, we received closed budgets at the time of 2007 and 2008. The final accounts were also shown to be surplus at the time. Everything else ran in some "sui generis" way, but never worse than in this particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Ms. Tanja Bogataj, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to respond only to allegations that an additional EUR 300 million for the Ljubljana Municipality is provided in the budget for coherent regional development. It is worth noting that the agreement concluded between the Government and the Municipality of Ljubljana has been prepared and coordinated for several years and under the Main City Act not for the purpose of coherent regional development. It should also be stressed from this point of view that it is not an additional EUR 300 million, but an agreement containing projects that will be carried out in the municipality of Ljubljana by both the competent ministries and the Municipality of Ljubljana, but within the existing resources, but it is not an additional funding that would only be allocated to the Municipality of Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. When considering the revision of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and the consideration of the updated draft budget for 2018, it is certainly necessary to highlight the fiscal rule and the consequences of adopting the fiscal rule on these two budgets, as well as the implications for the possibility of faster development and, of course, also for the resolution of certain problems in society, which we certainly perceive to a large extent in the field of youth. Indeed, it is in young people, based on an analysis by the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, that the situation of young people has worsened in Slovenia from all European countries. This is the alarm that should certainly accelerate our thinking in this direction, whether the fiscal rule measure was really needed in Slovenia. Indeed, it can happen that it is precisely because of the fiscal rule that we have substantially extended the financial and economic crisis, as in reality, the consequences are happening, and this means that we can actually lose one of the generations or two in Slovenia, and this will also be very severe in the long term in the development area of Slovenia. So only a fiscal rule is one that is highly creative, how much money we can spend on investments, how much money we can spend on R & D, of course for infrastructure development, including education or social protection, and finally health. If we are aware of this information, which I mentioned at the outset, that the social situation of young people has worsened most in Slovenia among European countries, then we should certainly look for solutions that will change this. But if we look at the priority of our rescues, the priorities are completely different. In addition to the fiscal rule itself, which, of course, extended the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, we have adopted a number of other measures that have drastically reduced our quality resources, available resources, public funds in the budget. I am also thinking of the bank hole, which has been uncritically assessed on the assumption that economic growth will fall until 2015 or may continue, and the fact is that, as we have already heard in the opening presentation of the Ministry of Finance, economic growth in Slovenia has been present intensively since 2014 and also in the period 2017-2018, which we are talking about in these budgets, also provides for significant economic growth and thus an increase in gross domestic product. With only a lack of critical assessment of the bank hole, we have caused too many commitments to be settled as a result of this in paying off interest, and this is something that is certainly a poor chance for faster development. In addition to the fact that we have spent money on banks, we are, of course, faced with the fact that banks actually care or have taken care of themselves abroad first and that the economy can, under very unfavourable conditions, access to financial resources or to the funds of banks, Slovenian banks, and rather actually finance investments or with their own resources or are in debt outside. This will also have long-term consequences, and not least, we can talk about that, even though the large-scale rehabilitation of banks has been done, we still hear how bad claims are growing and how the banks are actually exhausting this capital adequacy because they are not financing the economy. With these measures, which have been implemented in the field of banking as a priority, we must be aware that all these measures clearly have a capital priority, but, of course, there is no priority to human standards and development, and thus to set a greater added value in all areas. If we add to this the measure that has been taken — and I think that it is really unnecessary in such a scale and form — recently, the tax reform that has been adopted has also resulted in an additional 46 million deficit in the annual budget, both in 2017 and in 2018, because this tax reform has not actually been closed in view of the shortfall that will take place due to a reduction in income. While the corporate income tax is provided for in this budget to fill the gap, if we remember the reasons for the laws under this tax package, it is very clear that the 46 millionth hole in the budget will close with better tax collection. Will it be true? If not, we have 2017 because of this 46 million hole, 2018 46 million hole and this is this failure and these are the principles that should not actually be happening to us; knowing that we have a very difficult situation in how to enable young people to better integrate into life and develop their careers. In addition, a measure has been taken to liberalise prices on petrol services on motorways, which is and is the result of a reduction in funds in the 2017 budgets, probably 2018, not to mention, of course, what consequences this will have for, say, Petrol, who will definitely have to sell more than 50 percent of its pumps off the highway due to this liberalisation, because they are rules of the open market. As a result, in the coming years, we will have an even greater budget deficit and even greater difficulties. So again, we have taken care of capital, but we have not taken care of the needs of the state or the needs of the people with this measure. Last but not least, the principle of the attitude towards state property that we have shows that the interest of reselling, sale, but not of course the strengthening of this capital, the nobility of this capital with safe investments, also abroad, and thus, of course, providing significantly better opportunities for us to truly create a quality demographic fund for the provision of youth pensions, which the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection notes today, to live on the brink of poverty. So these young people must be provided with this property so that in the future they can have an additional resource to provide a decent pension. I am convinced that the pension in Slovenia, the minimum pension in Slovenia, should already be at least EUR 500. This is what the state needs to take care of through its mechanisms and what we need to make smart decisions, in particular regarding what resources we will provide in budgets and what assets are one that can certainly contribute significantly to these revenues. This predominance remains about the ongoing search for ways to sell certain assets, not only that the poor budget and the long-term causes great problems, but also within the companies themselves that are being discussed to sell themselves, causing great difficulties in investing in their development. This is the reality that we are facing, and if I add that limit to the fiscal rule again, it is really important to ask how much longer we can deal with budgets in this way and how long we can negotiate either with trade unions or with doctors or with schoolchildren or with others, of course, who are striving to have a decent pay for their work done. And that's what this is all about. With these warnings, we should also be very clear about the fact that the new financial perspective is already very deep in implementation since 2014, now in 2016, we are moving with these budgets in 2017, 2018, but the drawback of cohesion funds is extremely low and it is difficult to expect that we will also in recent years create just as many projects that will keep Slovenia at that level to draw on more resources than it has invested in the European budget. This is one of the challenges that has certainly not been exploited and we have been able to hear in the introduction today that there are a great deal of funding for the so-called soft programmes. These soft programmes will not bring added value, but they will keep a certain stakeholder group in some of the thinking that will, of course, be developed later in products, perhaps in some studies, but far from the added value that should be achieved in this financial perspective. And if Slovenia falls into the status of a country that pays more into the European budget than it draws from it, then we will have even greater investment difficulties. The investments we need in Slovenia have been recorded, are clear for many years, we have very clear needs and requirements; not least after better regional development through the construction of development axes, the third development axis linking Koroška to the highway cross and, of course, the White Krajina to the highway cross, the 3A development axis linking Kočevsko and the part of the White Region to the highway cross, and finally the fourth development axis against the Idria-Cerkljan area is the one that has been waiting for a number of years to move. However, because of the fiscal rule, we have this moment of difficulty in drawing on the very favourable resources that you can get from the European Investment Bank, which is willing to co-finance infrastructure projects, but that does not happen because we have a limitation on the so-called fiscal rule. This is the topic of how to launch investments, given that we have favourable resources on the market for funding, which must be one of the priorities in the future or the near future, and other countries around us that have not taken such rigorous fiscal measures, are significantly more successful in doing so. If we look only at the interest of Austria, which strongly invests in the railway network, 25 billion invests in the rail network without problems and invests with a very clear direction towards the future, to become the leading logistics country in this area, which connects to the North Adriatic ports and from where the cargo then reaches Austria and Germany, Central Europe and, of course, Russia itself. So, the countries around us are preparing for this, exploiting these beneficial resources, and we are limiting ourselves to a fiscal rule and proving to ourselves that this is a contribution to the future. I'm afraid it's a misappropriation for the future. One of these indicators, which could move not only through developmental axes but also through individual investments in infrastructure, such as through bypasses, the development of individual areas, is, last but not least, the railway in Slovenia Bistrica, which is strictly necessary to enable the expansion of production and thus the provision of jobs. The next investment as a railway undertaking, which is actually involved in ensuring the development of the place and of course greater investments, can also be part of the development of the industry, is the Hrpelje-Kozina Oblast, which is linked to the construction of the second track. We have sufficient resources for this second track right now, which are not intended for a concrete investment, but these funds are not used to end the bonds during this preparatory period, if I may say so, and thus also to relieve the congestion and traffic zones, which today are causing them a lot of overriding in dealing with their development needs. Last but not least, if I touch a very specific second track, in the budget 2017-2018, we do not follow the decision that the second track should be financed by public funds. Let me just compare that all the investments actually made on the rail network over the last few years have been over €400 million. Projects were also prepared for decisions in the National Assembly to allocate part of the funds or funds collected at the time of the toll on the registration of the car to projects on the railway network. All of these projects have practically come to life, have come to reality, and we have provided no problem with over €400 million for these updates. And interestingly, only for these 27 kilometers, as far as this Division of Divac-Koper is concerned, should a private investor be sought. I have also warned several times in these debates that we will not get a private investor for these 27 kilometres because the return on the stake, say one billion or if it is a private investor, is significantly higher, it is certainly at least 1.4 billion – and we will not get such an investor. Finally, this is confirmed by Hungary's decision, which analysed this section and also made it clear that if Slovenia wants to invest money in the second track as Hungary, it expects a share in Luka Koper and also expects to take over the cargo on Slovenian railways by Hungarian railways. So, a very clear indicator that the public-private partnership on these 27 kilometres is completely unrealistic or leads towards the sale of Luka Koper and, last but not least, the sale of Slovenian Railways and thus Slovenia loses the role it actually has in its natural legion to become an extremely important logistics centre for all central Slovenia and, of course, the country to the Baltic and not least Russia. The National Programme for the Development of Transport Infrastructure itself, which is also being addressed by the National Assembly at this meeting, very clearly confirms that, in fact, all other investments can be financed by public funds, but not only those 27 kilometres. This raises those key questions that I have been opening up for quite some time in the last period with increasing intensity. Who actually runs the country? Who manages or creates state policy? Is this the government, is this the National Assembly, or are these the networks that see on every such occasion an opportunity to make a profit? This logical indicator, which I have shown that public-private partnership here is not feasible, and the Ministry and Government insist on this, is an indicator, unfortunately, only this. If this were the interest of people or to solve people's problems, to solve the problems of the Slovenian economy, to ensure faster development of logistics in Slovenia, this would certainly be completely different and to a large extent in a way that could be financed by public funds. 200 million have already been provided for this purpose. Is it really difficult to provide at least EUR 100 million over the coming years 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and, of course, also to apply for the tender and draw grants that are also available within the EU? Last but not least, it is still in force — at least after what we can understand on the websites — an operational programme in the field of infrastructure, where we have also notified the European institutions of the implementation of this investment as an investment to be financed by public funds. And how is it possible that even though we still have this application within this invitation to tender, we are talking about a public-private partnership? These things need to be cut off, and we can certainly hope then that we will not talk about 2.9% of economic growth as predicted in 2017, but we can also talk about having a future economic growth of 4, 5, 6% or GDP growth. This is the growth that certainly makes it much easier to negotiate or negotiate with the public sector, or it also makes it possible to invest significantly more in research and development, or in the security of the state, or in the health system itself. Even in the context of the discussions that we had during the adoption or drafting of the Higher Education Act, there is a very clear indicator by one of the stakeholders, which points out that the funds have been drastically reduced in young researchers and that the inability to involve young researchers in development will certainly be felt in the long term as a very negative trend. If I just say about the information, let's say, in the middle of the launch, if I may say so, the consequences of the biggest economic crisis in 2011 were €22.7 million for the call for research projects at the Agency for Research and Development. And I claim that also because of this contribution to R & D in 2011, very high and strong economic growth has been recorded since 2014 and up to now in Slovenia. Once this trend is exhausted, because in 2017 around 12 million are earmarked for research projects, this trend will, of course, begin to decline. Again, action will have to be taken in terms of crowding people. But a warning: the total amount proposed by the research and scientific institutions in Slovenia, which should be provided in 2017, is an additional EUR 40 million. Here I will return to that starting point when I spoke about the tax reform that was adopted, which reduced the tide in 2017 by €46 million. What will have a greater impact on the development of Slovenia? Is this hole in the budget or the fact that these 46 million could invest in R & D? I don't think the answer needs to be specifically explained or sought and asked which one is correct. These are the measures and the moves that we need to talk about in a much more realistic way and face the challenges that lie ahead of us to ensure for this generation that enters the labour market that enters the field of science, the possibility that this knowledge will be well cashed, if I may say so, for the benefit of all citizens in Slovenia and, of course, to the greatest extent possible, because knowledge is the one that certainly brings to many people the opportunity to create an appropriate career. Therefore, with all the problems that we have seen in the last period precisely because many of the measures have been either exaggerated in favour of the banking system or exaggerated in favour of ensuring the interests of capital, they also reflect that we cannot provide those development incentives that are necessary not only, as I have said, in the field of science as the most important branches for the future in Slovenia, but also for the development of those areas that have been identified in Slovenia as a problem in accordance with the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, and also those areas we have as a rule the most at the border with neighbouring countries. So, maintaining life at the border is certainly one of the priority national interests, but you cannot realize this in a way that consciously reduces resources in the budget and thus threatens the development of border areas both in the area of Osilnica, Kočevska, White Krajina and, of course, in Maribor as well as in Koroška, where the biggest deviations from what needs to be done in order to reduce these development differences. Despite all the fact that we have a very clear commitment in the legislation that these are priority areas, we do, however, also meet in these budgets, to receive treatment or to the same extent as everything is in the best order there, or of course even a little bit smaller, especially because, even in previous years, these investments were not to the extent envisaged. Therefore, we would expect that, now that economic growth is rising steadily, there will be greater investment dynamics. However, this did not happen in these areas either. That is how the budgets ahead of us are to close these financial structures under these terms, which are limited by the fiscal rule and which are reduced by all the measures that I have listed, so that the revenue in the budget is substantially lower than it could be. Once again, I would like to point out that no fiscal rule will lead to Slovenia being deliberated and this is a completely wrong presentation of this issue. It is only large economic growth that will relieve us of the obligations that need to be settled and which will continue to topple us in countries that are consistent in regulating their obligations and also very seriously reduce either the structural problems or the public financial deficit that is present in the annual budgets. So it is only high economic growth that can enable us, but without investment, without investment, without greater investment in science, that will not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. And yet! Then please report. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that, President. A nice greeting to everyone on my behalf! Somehow I also had to come to this debate, although I must admit that I couldn't listen to everyone because we had an obligation in the Group of Members, but I will say some things that I think are worth stressing. First of all, I would like to point out that it seems really difficult to draw up this budget mainly because the needs are greater than the revenues. Since we cannot be indebted because we are also constrained by fiscal rules, I think it would be good for more attention to be given to increasing income. We have already taken up a position in our Group of Members, and to this end we have also had a meeting with the current Secretary of State for Finance, the current Minister, and the Director of Administration Furs. We asked for clarifications on how, by providing income from contributions to pension and disability insurance, health insurance, child care, employment and so on. We have been informed that this situation is improving slightly, but we were still not satisfied with this situation. That is why we have asked Ministers or State Secretary Fursa to come up with legislation to enable these contributions to be collected more effectively. It seemed appropriate for us to improve, in particular, the legislation governing bankruptcy procedures. We know that this loses a lot of contributions, as well as taxes and other state revenues. If this legislation were to be regulated in such a way as the authorities probably know that it would be right, we ourselves do not, nor do I, because I do not know this area so well, I do not know it at all, but I know that what we have heard could be done more if there was legislation in this area. Then I would like to identify myself for these transfers to the pension register so that there is no misunderstanding in the public. As transfers to the pension fund are falling, the rights of pensioners and other beneficiaries of the rights are not being reduced. The lowering of transfers to the pension register is only positive, because this reflects more employees and thus increases the contributions to the pension fund and thus the decommissioning of the state in this area, which was also the main objective of this last pension reform, ZPIZ-2, which was adopted in 2012. And this shows that the results are what we expected, so it's a very misleading claim that pensions are lower. Pensions are paid in accordance with the legislation in force and are indeed lower, but because of the lower wages of employees or the lowest category, wages are indeed too low, as many, including other institutions and research, warn. I was reading an analysis of the realization of pension benefits and it was found that there were about 20% of pensions – about 20%, maybe some percentage more, I don't know exactly – from the lowest pension base in these six months of this year. It is indeed sad that pensions must be measured from the lowest pension base of now EUR 760, and then for 40 years the pension there came out of around EUR 450. That is why it is so necessary to do something here to improve this condition or to raise this lowest wage. So that the pensions would be more appropriate. But once again, because of this pension, because there were fewer transfers to the pension register, there were nothing wrong with it. We have also coordinated them, as was the financial capacity of the country, not as we call the ZPIZ-2. Well, now you know that a compromise has been reached to harmonise by 1.15% in 2017 and 1.2% could be achieved by the ZPIZ-2, according to the available data. In this regard, I would also like to draw attention to this annual supplement, a one-year annual supplement we have sometimes called Recreation for pensioners. Otherwise, we'll discuss this subject, I think tomorrow, but I don't think there's gonna be anything wrong with it if I warn you now. As a result of this increase in pensions for this 1.15%, those now with this annual allowance of up to €414, for example, will know this annual allowance of €390, and now that we raise the pension by 1.15% in January, those who have now received up to €414 will now exceed €390 by a few euros and will instead receive an allowance of €250 from the second class. So 140 euros less. And then for all these four classes the same thing will happen; those who are at the border will fall out. Therefore, my proposal would be to increase this limit amount as pensions are increasing; so now, in a specific case, in January by 1.15%. That would hold everyone back — those who now have a certain amount of regression would also continue to have it. In my view, this country would no longer be a burden, so nothing would be a higher cost, especially because in 2017 this one-off pension allowance will not be received by those beneficiaries who also receive part of the pension from foreign countries if these total amounts of Slovenian pensions and pensions from foreign countries exceed those amounts. So I think we're gonna save some more money here. This was also the purpose of this measure to take into account those amounts from abroad — pensions received by people from abroad. The Minister mentioned in her introduction that the restrictions brought by ZUJF would be eased gradually. These are from this programme or from the financial plan and from ZIPRS also see that these things are really being released gradually, but I have some comments here myself. This means that transfers to individuals and households will not yet be coordinated. These are again people who are most at risk, and I do not know if it is right for the same percentage as pensions to be coordinated by these transfers to individuals and households. I don't know how much that would cost, but at least I'd like to see a calculation of what that means. In my opinion, that can't mean much. On the other hand, this ZIPRS, or budget, is releasing funds for war veterans who are over the age of five-fifty. Those who have now lost this supplement, or not the supplement, but the contribution to voluntary health insurance. They were paid by the state, they lost it with the ZUJF, and now they're all going to get it back, those who are over five-fifty years old. Since many of these people are still employed at this age and can also have solid incomes, I think that if there is relaxation here, we might also consider releasing these transfers to socially disadvantaged households and individuals. We have different views here, and I just said my point of view. This is not the position of our Group of Members, I must point out that this is my personal position and so far so much in this general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	The word is from Master Bojana Mursic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we are considering two of the most important documents by which the Government will determine our country's economic and social policy for the next two years. This document sets out the priorities of the Government, which are unfortunately a set of political compromises, as well as the economic capabilities of the State. I must say that I am sad in this place, given that the government has failed to reach an agreement with the unions, because the task of unions and governments is to ensure public interest. Given that we have also just received the Government's decision on the information that this proposal could not be adopted, I am even more saddened that it is now up to us Members to ensure the stability of the budget by other measures. But this will be a debate after today's meeting on the Committee on Home Affairs, how we will implement this issue, so that this budget, which we have on the table today, will also be closed. Because now, at this stage of the day, the budget is not, in my opinion, closed. We must be aware that citizens and citizens want a quality life, and they also want to know where this money is going. It is our job or the task of the State to care for public interest and social needs. Every year we face a gap in this budget document, and here too is this gap in this budget – is this budget that we have acceptable or not? It is important to look at the macroeconomic frameworks of Slovenia that are truly improving, and I think it is a real time for people, citizens and citizens to have some of these positive trends. In 2016, an economic growth of 2.3 per cent of gross domestic product is foreseen, up to a good 2.9 per cent for 2017. With economic growth, we stabilise the fiscal balance. The deficit foreseen in the budget of 2.2 gross domestic product is within the framework of the Maastricht criterion. It is also important that large exports are foreseen and private consumption is then raised, as private consumption increases our competitiveness, creates new jobs and also creates investment investments. However, it is crucial that the State is seeking restructuring in the direction of workload. Some tax reforms have been made, but unfortunately some have also caused greater deficits or greater burdens on the 2017 budget. It is important to realize that workers who work want to receive wages or earn wages that will enable them to live a decent life for themselves and their family members. From a national economic point of view, Slovenia is in good condition, but is this condition reflected in this budget as well. Of course, pension costs are increasing, as there will be an extraordinary 1.15% reconciliation of pensions, and I must say that I am expressing concern, because we are now talking about extraordinary reconciliations of pensions, but I do not know where the regular harmonisation of pensions should be in accordance with the law. Once again, pensioners or all too many workers receive incomes that are below the poverty line. It's unacceptable for me. There are also some data from pensioners, some of which have already been reported, but I did not listen to all the discussions. There are more than a quarter and 28% of pensioners in the pension structure, 60% of pensioners between 500 and 1,000 euros, 8.8 of pensioners from thousands to 500 euros, and only a few small pensioners from more than 1,000 500 euros. This is the June 2016 data. I cannot overlook the fact that the average pension of EUR 613,80 is lower than the average pension of EUR 611, the average net pension of EUR 473,41, the average net widow's pension is EUR 385,70. These data are also from the June data. Are these pensions worthy of this? I don't think so. I must say that in the field of active employment policy, more integration of unemployed persons in these measures is envisaged in the budget. I must say, this is encouraging. This year, 17,000 unemployed were foreseen in active policy measures, an increase of 5,000 unemployed in 2017. Of course, active policy is not a permanent measure, but – we will say so – one measure that alleviates the partial social distress of the most vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens. I would also like to see all of these 23 000, which will be included in active policy programmes in the coming year, receive regular employment at least for a certain time, if not for an indefinite period. If you allow me, I also continue with the fundamental value of citizens and citizens and also the priority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is with health. On the one hand, we have the Fides union, which strikes or doctors. On the other hand, we have patients in waiting periods, waiting, scheduled for surgery, and these operations are being moved. They've been waiting for interventions for months, but because of the strike, these things are moving. Is that right? I don't think so. Why did it happen, we'd be wondering. The question is, in fact, that doctors are chronically lacking. Planning for specialization has been wrong for a number of years, which is what appears now. I hope so, although the Minister of Health has already said that in essence specialisations are increasing or more specializations are being signed, the demographic trend must be followed, as the proportion of the older population is increasing, we have more chronic patients, we have more infectious diseases and new diseases, and we have progress in medical science. Unfortunately, in the last ten years public health funds in all developed countries have grown faster than their gross domestic products, and in Slovenia, unfortunately, this trend was lagging behind the gross domestic product. I hope that some resources will also be provided in the budget to shorten the waiting periods that plague our health system. Allow me to make some progress in the transport infrastructure, which is one of the most important conditions for the equitable development of the Republic of Slovenia and enables us, citizens and citizens to be able to manage the economy properly. In recent years, these measures have stalled. While there have been urgent upgrades, updates to roads and railway infrastructures have been halted. Here we have the second track, the third development axis. I would also like to stress here, even though we are not talking about local problems, on the outskirts of Slovenska Bistrica. But also reconstruction of roads somewhere, I'll say remote reconstruction through Lovrenc, which is urgently needed, because it will become untransportable. Here's the problem. While there are some trends in the budget, all the funds envisaged do not guarantee investments over the next two years. I'm actually disappointed in this budget here. If I touch the averages for the congregations a little bit. The averages for the municipalities are true, I will say, reached a bottom of €522 this year, for the following year the country found a hearing and agreed to a 530 level, and for 2018 an average of €536 is expected. That's certainly good. Perhaps just a little bit more touching on the use of cohesion funds. As has been mentioned many times in previous discussions, this drawdown has been significantly understated. That is how I believe that we will do everything possible to make this drawing materially more, that we will make good projects, that we will not be returning cohesion funds, because that is what we are doing. But I'll say I'm looking for added value in these soft programs. I often wonder if there is any added value in these soft programs. Effects, I don't know if they're the most appropriate. The liberalisation of oil derivatives prices in the past week will also create a budget for us in the coming years, despite the fact that the Minister ensures that enough money will flow through excise duties, but I believe that there will be a trend like this at the beginning, but things will change in time. Also, highway crossings, where petrol pumps are located, would rather be taken off the highway, refueled elsewhere, and foreigners would rather tank abroad, where prices would be significantly lower. I don't think that's a good thing, and it would also need a lot of thought and thought in this place. I still believe that common sense will prevail, that the ministry will find that, after all the analyses it will carry out, this will not have a positive effect and that the price of petroleum derivatives will be liberalised as soon as possible, for this is the only right proposal to go forward. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Another speaker encouraged me to call again. In fact, what we have heard today, one would say where to take all the money and so much money as this desire to satisfy everything. It's impossible. Even at home, when bills are emptied when money is not in your wallet, I mean, you can't give to a neighbor who's asking you, even to children who ask you. And that's the way it is with our budget; you can't share money you don't have. All these desires, including amendments and all, are impossible to meet. Obviously we are not aware of this somehow and are still going in this direction to get the money, each pull the blanket to their end and meet their needs. It also has salaries in the public sector. This should be a compromise between wishes and opportunities. We forget that we still have a deficit, we still spend more than we create, but that is why these things cannot be changed, so we cannot get all the desires in the budget involved, all the desires on the table. I would also like to stress this because it has been said that the Ministry of Economy, too, see in the amendments that it has insufficient resources and so on. Of course, all ministries would like more, but, see if the Ministry of Economy will also set up an appropriate environment for foreign investors, which is also evident in this future, then more will be gathered in the budget and will be easier in the future. A lot of such measures from this budget, we have heard today, but it is detectable. We don't want to and we don't want to understand. I would also like to respond to all the amendments you have tabled and it has been said that the Ministry has not explained these amendments, why it does not accept them; that this is just what we do not want to accept, we do not want to follow them. I think everyone who tabled the amendment has an explanation for why not. Let's just say I detected it myself, I'm not going to quote, an amendment to speed up the agricultural service. See, in order to promote the agricultural service, such an amendment, additional funds, it is irrelevant because, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture also has European funds for this purpose and covers the agricultural advisory service from those funds. Then it's just the Ministry, say, wait, here's where you put, say, for war graves. [[…]] It rightly explained to the Ministry that sufficient funds were made to do so. Then why such flat-rate criticism? I really don't get it. I accept some constructive criticism that something is wrong, but nothing is entirely wrong with the opposition today. This seems unacceptable to me that there is no measure, no item fine. In addition, some still misinterpret the use of European funds. I'm going to say it again, even though I can explain it in person whenever I have the opportunity. I think why we do not understand that the European perspective 2007-2013 has somehow accelerated pumping 2014-2015 and at the same time all measures for the new perspective 2014-2020 have been implemented. The government service governing this policy, in its reports, states for the first time that the dual work was carried out 2014-2015 when it enabled this pumping, then it must be said that two years from the beginning of the eligibility period has barely passed – for this 2014-2020 – and that the implementation of the operational programme of European cohesion policy has been slower in these two years than we all wanted. Of course, because it was also the same in the previous perspective, because it is impossible already to start pumping in 2014, if the European Commission documents are only being proposed then, and we are just here in the long and short term telling people that cohesion is simply not being drawn. That's not true, and let's get to the bottom of this. And also when you mention soft projects, what it will bring. These were the negotiations in 2009. Can we take it back or do we have to move on? Look, the biggest problem is that people need to be told that these soft projects need to be deepened so that they need to be linked. But we report: not everything is wrong, everything is wrong, everything is wrong. It's not wrong! There is a need for change, a change of opinion, and we can help as Members here. And we're just going back instead. No, I really can't understand that we misinterpret and misreport. I really can't understand that. See, an implementation plan has been adopted, which foresees that in 2016-2018 almost 1.5 billion worth of projects will be put into implementation. Isn't that money? Yeah, what's that? I mean, I really don't understand. I really don't. Let this one of you who's so much against such a negative explanation explain it to me. Because a man simply lies and unrelenting lies cannot always listen. See, once again, more than 50 support decisions were issued in the first half of 2016, more than 50 projects, programmes, public tenders totalling more than 600 million; 9 public tenders totalling 73 million were approved; 11 programmes were also approved, followed by calls for tenders totalling 99 million; 33 projects totalling 339 million euros were approved. Yes, I do! Let me mention only concretely, because I mentioned before the Gruškovje-Drazenci motorway for 63 million, 9 environmental projects for waste and drinking managers, as well as a project for the implementation of knowledge-raising activities for Roma communities. Aren't these projects or something from a new perspective? In addition to the above, the SVRC adopted further applications in 2016, which it coordinates with the competent resources. Over 600 million funds were granted for summer holidays, representing 20% of the allocation of the operational programme. In the coming years, it is expected that the dynamics of approval of decisions with support will be even faster. I think that these are sufficient arguments that we are no longer talking about the lack of European cohesion funds. In short, the challenges of this country are still great, we still have a deficit and we cannot spend more than we create. Let's make this a motto. We owe this budget today to accept and confirm; we owe it to the people who elected us. All together. We are obliged to do so for this to be done smoothly so that people will not be deprived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Private Shergan. Lord Jean-Mahnič, here you go, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you. I listened very much to the lady before me. I am not for us to change our mind, but for us to change our budget, and therefore, Mrs Shergan, these are the amendments. But I can see that you're good at, let's say, creative accounting. Finance has also been reported by other media about your financial manipulations when you were a procurator in one of the companies, so I believe that you know where it is not, a little more to show where something is, and a little less to show that some euro is put in a pocket. However, I will talk about this budget. I can't support him. I'm afraid the Minister of Finance isn't here most of the time. I don't know if he's got any white magic or somewhere else. It is definitely not appropriate that the lady does not listen and does not respond. I'd start with sports infrastructure. Today you talked a lot about how we're going to invest and how we're going to build. In 2017, €10 million is allocated to sport in this budget; in short, nothing more than it was before. For sports infrastructure, this is called reconstruction, for the new construction of EUR 800,000. The following year again, €800,000. Unfortunately, the Minister of Education isn't here, but she took a picture. I think she was in Rio, too. We walk or walk through all the events to take pictures with athletes. At the time when something has to be given – as we have already found last week, when we had a meeting of the Committee on Education at the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party, where we discussed inadequate sport infrastructure – it is said that when it comes to putting money into the budget for specific projects, we have heard, sixty places are waiting for suitable gyms and then it is easy to put EUR 800,000 into the budget. The Slovenian Democratic Party then submits an amendment for an additional two million, this amendment is rejected and then the Government adds an additional two million for 2018, plus the Foundation's funds. But in this way, for €800,000 of additional funding, unfortunately, we cannot further promote and invest in sport and sports infrastructure. I agree with what Mr Andrej Šircelj, a fellow Member of Parliament, said earlier. The school has a billion and four hundred already in the budget. We're adding 43 million euros. What's going to change? What is too little now or how will you turn this money into a quality? To better programs in better frames and so on? In health, you give an additional €13 million – no reforms, no changes. With the unions you went to the knife, you went to the end, the only law that somehow indicates some change, is the coalition disharmony, the pharmacy law, and this is also the main health reform of this coalition – how someone will buy medicines. Other reforms are not heard of by the spirit. And there's practically a borderline month in front of the door for health reform, that's December. In short, only increasing the resources for health, for the Ministry of Health, and no structural reforms and other measures. Even this 13 million euros will not bring a better situation in this way. It was previously written on Twitter by the SMC Party. It was written in the draft budget 2017/2018: higher growth, more employees, higher privileges and lower interest rates. As for higher growth, we can see in the forecast that in 2018 it will be lower than in 2017. As far as more employees are concerned, we may agree here, but it is important to say where more employees will be; in Austria and in the public sector. Austria and the public sector. And higher privileges. Here I would like to ask the Minister, who is unfortunately not who, from the SMC's Twitter quota, would like to ask where the higher privileges will be. Who will have higher privileges because of this budget? The ones on minimum wage? Those who give up protective benefits so that their assets will not be taken away after death? The ones who get miserable pensions? Those waiting in line for medical interventions? What privileges? What higher privileges? For these groups of people? That is not clear from this budget! An additional €51 million at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. What will change, what will be better, or where are the needs for these additional €51 million? By increasing some of the items that we see that implementation under the budget we have will not yet be achieved. But there's a further increase in funding. Above all, what will be done, or how will these financial resources, which you invest further where there is money, contribute to raising the working population? Which was, just in case you talked so much about the past today, at the start of the first Janshea government 813 thousand, at the end of the first Janshea government 880 thousand, and today there are 800,000. In one year, the government of Mira Cerar raised the working population by only six thousand, and the rest went to Austria and elsewhere. But it's not the working population. Now, to stop at what I cover the most in the parliamentary group, that is the area of defence. I'm glad Mr. Bizjak came, he must have seen my turn. In short, we have been speaking in this House for two years, what is the situation in the Slovenian Army, what is the state of defence. Since 2009, since the beginning of the government of Borut Pahor, money has been taken for the Slovenian Army, so we have come to a critical level today. Last year, when Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg visited, the President of the Government promised him that now the fall was over and that the budget for defence would gradually rise. Now in the balance sheet for this year 2016, the funds have fallen further. As a percentage of 0.01% of GDP, nominally for two million because you were going to creative accounting and you were just putting something into the membership account. But that's not the money for the Slovenian Army. The Chief General of Staff has already said several times in the National Assembly – the Slovenian Army has an existential crisis, we urgently need 46 million euros. For the following year, the Slovenian Army will receive an additional €18 million, for 2018, when your last year will be, if regular elections are held, an additional €21 million. What attitude, when you have so much to say, did the government of Janez Janša have toward the army, but what attitude does the government of Mira Cerar have toward the army most of all? In 2004 to 2008, when the average economic growth was five percent, the Slovenian Army nominally received 200 million euros more. Between 2014 and 2018, when economic growth is estimated to be around 2.5%, the Slovenian Army is earmarking 37 million euros more. So much about who takes, who gives, or who in times of economic growth gives, how much, and especially to whom. Previously, the ministry lady said that plans for development programmes should be looked at to see the content. When I look at plans for development programs, I am deeply concerned about this content, or it is like this government — impersonal. See, equipping the Slovenian Army with main equipment and modernisation. In 2017 nothing, in 2018 nothing, 2019 when we are gone, 45 million, 2020 when we are gone, 100 million and then 150 million. Thus, for the modernisation of the Slovenian Army in 2017 and 2018 we will give nothing and then every year we will give 50, 100 and 150 million euros. Who are you making a fool of? Who are you making a fool of? And let's leave Nata there because no one's taking you seriously anymore. You are making a fool of citizens and citizens, of their safety, and especially of members and members of the Slovenian Army. Look at the state of things today. We had a meeting yesterday on the social situation. You're doing some things, you've done some things. Now the main question – what have you done in the last two years and what will you do in the budget for the next two years to have a professional, trained and modern army? You said nothing in here. Nothing! You're doing your best to have an army at the level of some African militia by the time you leave the government. By the way, the World Army scale of firepower: Uganda is 98th, Slovenia has fallen under your government practically 20 cities. We're 111th out of 130 rated countries. Now you're going to sell the tanks, the 55 — do you know how the firepower will fall when you sell half the tanks we still have? What else do we have? There's no bullets, start picking stones and making chips. This will be the main equipment of the Slovenian Army, this will be the assault rifle of the Slovenian Army after the government of Mira Cerar has left its mandate. That's what you do, ladies and gentlemen! You won't give a damn what the Chief of Staff said. You haven't given 46 million euros immediately, you haven't given 46 million euros in three years. I don't even know what else you're going to at the NATO liaison meetings. You are changing the documents, and this budget does not follow what you wrote in the SOPR. Instead of being this document, do you know what the budget would be strategic for me? [[…]] To say, O.K., we take the Slovenian Army. Where do we want the Slovenian Army, what do we want? Let's say we want a middle battalion battle group. What are we gonna do? The patriots know what it's like, I'll give it to you. Currently Jordan has made a deal with Germany, bought by marders, sold by Germans, upgraded pumas or the new weapons system links they now have, the marders – 20 millimeter cannon, a great thing, Jordan has now paid the Germans for the upgrade. They're the only ones we could join, we'd have a mid-bathal fighting group of 50 marders, say, for 20 million euros. But, you can't see, I won't say by 2020, you don't see for two years, for 2017 and 2018, because you clearly wrote that modernisation will not. That's what you put in the budget. No euros to buy the main weapons equipment. No euro! Imagine where you're taking this country and where you're taking those most supportive systems, both for the safety of citizens and citizens and this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potočnikov, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr President, otherwise you were just coming into the hall when you were changing. I would like to ask you to warn my younger colleague, Mahnic, to apologize to my colleague, Private Shergan for what he said at the beginning of his debate. I would ask you to protect the integrity of my colleague, Private, for making accusations based on some newspaper products. I think that this is unacceptable in the National Assembly for us to be accused in this way, and I demand that a colleague apologize. Please, chairman, remind him not to repeat this and that this is unacceptable in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Mr. Mahnic, you have the floor, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you. I should probably also apologize to my colleague Košnik Grošelj when it turned out what she was doing. Now, I don't know if that's the effect of the members of the Suwaves on you, but tell me what's not true, what I said wrong. I was just quoting what they wrote in Finance and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Mr Mahnic, Mrs Potočnik, I hope that we have all understood your messages. I propose that I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence so that he can give the answers. Okay? Mag. Bizjak, please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members! Some indications need to be responded to. First of all, we are a credible member of the Alliance. We participate in all peacekeeping operations and missions, which are agreed also with the NATO liaison, and we perform our task successfully. We are talking about the future engagement of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the framework of NATO, so I must say that from this point of view we are now fulfilling all the requirements of NATO in accordance with our decisions and in accordance with their expectations. But it is true that the financial situation is not the best, and we admit it, and it is also true that the situation in the Slovenian Army is not the best. That's what we admit. However, to say that we are an uncreditable partner and that no one in NATO takes us into account anymore, this claim is absolutely not true. As far as financial situations are concerned, we receive a nominal additional 20 million in 2016, which we are looking forward to, while at the same time acknowledging that there is not enough to do what we would like. In 2017 we get 20 million, in 2018 we get 21 million. We know it's not enough, but it's progress. We must say that this has created a trend towards a decline in nominal military spending. This will also help to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army. Of course, we cannot talk about the cycle of new equipment and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and I agree with the Member of Parliament, of course. However, I would like to say that we want to maintain the current situation, that we want to improve the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces and that we want to improve the status of the Slovenian Armed Forces. As regards tanks, however, it must be said that a decision on the elimination of T-55 tanks from the use of the Slovenian Army has been taken by another government and not this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Replica, Mr. Jean-Mahnich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Secretary, as far as credibility is concerned, I did not mean missions. We are commended for you, and that's the only thing that holds us together. Let me know what the credibility of two percent of GDP is for defence. How about credibility, if you promise the Secretary-General something, you do something completely different. As far as credibility is concerned, Mr Secretary of State, no one will tell you at the twenty-eight table that you are not credible. And we both know that because we're both going to the NATO meeting, what are we talking about off the record?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss the general work of the amendment proposal. I'm guessing yes. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, but the fact is that the Secretary of State has somehow called me to this debate. Make it clear to the general public as well. You seem to have forgotten what the unions told you last night. They said that the Constitution would not allow them to strike, but that they would use other measures. Now, Your Honor, tell me in what way you say that we must be responsible and accept this budget, which is actually opposed by almost everyone. It's not consistent, and then you say we can give as much as we have. I'm asking you what you've done to get more. You have at least reached the hands of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which has specifically told you what it needs to raise the small and medium economy. For that part that practically gives life to the state and makes it possible to improve the situation in all areas. And you answer to me here today that more will be given to the Roma. 14 days ago we said that the money was enough there, but that the situation wasn't right because we didn't have it. Priority, no, not in this budget. And one more thing, Madam Secretary of State, I must tell you. Two tonnes of aid shall be distributed, respected, within the framework of the Slovenian Army. 150 packages. Those in the country's service receive 150 aid packages. And you say the situation is bearable. On the other hand, do not make sure that illegality and illegal payments, which your ministry and you are responsible for, are not abolished. Someone cashed the money for a job you shouldn't have gotten. And the Ministry doesn't do anything. You'll say it's change. But I'll remind you after I have the amendments here for one poor elementary school and a gym. I'd like to put this change in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	Mrs. Shergan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	See, for this gym, when you say the amendment now, tendering will be available and this school will sign up for this invitation to tender and it will be able to obtain these funds if it meets the conditions. I'm so specific. And you don't understand that at all because I don't go to such a low level of debate. But I'm trying to be operational and constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Respectfully, if we were constructive, we would at least read things. This school is promised these funds. And this school has already arranged for itself, or the congregation, to start the project because the money was promised, and you have moved it to the next period. The money that was promised to them yesterday and the projects started. You introduced him next year. That's your way of doing things. But strategies to move money to a period when you're gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	Colleagues and colleagues, anyone else want to discuss general work? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Love Žnidar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll go to the infrastructure area. I will not repeat what is important for the sustainability of public finances, that we all have the same desire to balance the state budget. This means revenue with expenditure. We have too much public spending, which means a lack of self-restraint of public finances, which is deepening from year to year. Look, it's an old saying or, I'd say, some principles or it's been said that when there's the biggest crisis, people should be given a job. They used to be public works, public works, and so forth. Times are different today. It is now necessary to actually give work and one of the possible options is to create the possibility to launch or increase the intensity of building state-owned investments. This is what it means to build state infrastructure. Not because I'm a construction worker, but the data from the economy shows that the construction industry is running 43% of the entire economy. This is said to drive a little less than half of the construction industry to a new energy, to a new momentum, to give a new possibility of a circle that actually brings a positive effect in the budget. People get jobs, they earn, they spend and again in the form of taxes, then part of these funds are returned to the state budget. This is a circle that everyone should have in front of them, which should be built by everyone in their own industry, in their own sector, in every department. Construction is one of the most basic and possible options to stabilise public finances. The budget is an indicator of the direction in which public finances are directed. If we look quickly, I would say that to a large extent the budget is too burdened by public spending. And I'm not saying there's too much pay in public. Pays are low, but the system of procedures is too long, too complicated and requires too many employees. Here is the gap, which actually largely consumes the state budget and causes incoherence or mania. The financial indicators are very clear in every three months with a new financial hole, 300 million, 400 million, etc., which appear so much every three months. And that's incoherence. So I don't see this budget direction towards increased investment of state importance. It is true that the funds for these purposes are increased in both years, both in 2017 and in 2018, but significantly too little to give effect to the actual effects, feedback to the budget itself. Here I see this manna and I think that the situation will show that a significant increase in the activity to give people as much work as possible will soon prove necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Žnidar. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. First, Mr. Podkoršek, then you are. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your word. An hour ago, we received a notice from the National Assembly to the Government that it had failed to comply with the public sector unions. The law governing this area is an integral part of the budget package, it should be considered as the 5th item of the agenda or after the meeting, the conclusion of today's meeting of the National Assembly at half ten, and I would like to know what the scenario is, given that you are not in line. Otherwise, the debate we are currently having on the budget is totally pointless if I say so at home. There is a lack of 300 million about, there is so much uncoordinated, we don't know how this will close, how the government will deal with this problem, but here we are talking long and wide, especially on the coalition side, how good this budget is. We say it's not, obviously not. Now I'm asking you who's leading the session, how are you going to handle this? Are you going to have this lame debate because we don't have concrete and coordinated documents on the table, or are you going to keep going or are you going to stop it? I think it makes sense for the debate to be closed until the budget is complemented by all supporting acts, as it should be. We can't talk about something that isn't. The government is proposing or continuing to discuss something that is not. And the coalition is discussing something that isn't. The Deputy Secretary-General is sneezing so you won't interrupt the meeting. I ask who is leading the meeting, in what way, why do you insist on the debate, if it is more than obvious, with a government letter that the matter is not harmonised and the budget is not closed. I would suggest you suspend the session and agree on how to proceed in the coalition. Is it even worthwhile to discuss in the National Assembly a budget missing a document for 300 million euros more than the entire road programme of the Ministry of Transport? I propose, Mr President, that you stop and consider how to proceed, what you will submit to us, so that we can hold a proper debate in the National Assembly. This explanation by the coalition Members, as you have done a good budget, has already been undermined by this invitation to tender. If you are a serious coalition and if you are a serious government and if we are talking about a budget for two years, then at least put serious documents on the table so that something can change with the amendment. But it can't be the whole set that's out of sync.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I respect your opinion and I understand your concerns, but we will proceed in accordance with the guidelines set out. So, we continue with the meeting, as we all know well, after this debate, the Committee on the Interior will start with a meeting of the Committee, and let us hope that there will be something more familiar. Mr Tanko, I believe you are not satisfied with the answer, but my goal is to continue our work. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, what we have just heard, this procedural proposal, of course, is for the first time irrelevant, because it is an attempt at something where Mr Tanko has not been involved. If he were on the Committee on Finance, where we have already chewed all of this, I would ask him and especially you, Vice-President, to indicate the article under the Rules of Procedure on the basis of which he proposes the suspension of the meeting itself, in order to actually satisfy the procedure itself, not some letters where he himself has found out what makes sense and what does not make sense. In particular, because we are adopting the budget for 2017 and 2018, regardless of when we vote on the budget, the Government must, of course, declare before the vote whether the budget is harmonised and, more importantly, enter into force by 1. 1. Since I see Tanko already looking for an article in the Rules of Procedure, I am very interested in which article he will now propose this, except that, as an opposition, he can propose an interruption, which is, of course, quite ridiculous. The procedure for adopting the budget is clear in the Rules of Procedure. We have mandatory ingredients on the table and we have also dealt with them. But I know it'll come from that side again, what it is and what it isn't. Even if we did not harmonise, we have long ago found that the government is obliged to take appropriate measures and to propose an intervention law. But he's got time for all of this to do. However, I am confident that we will conclude the matter today on the Committee on Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Möderndorfer, but I would rather give my word to Mr Bojan Podkrajška, but I think Mrs Alenka Bratušek wanted procedurally. Mrs. Bratusek, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	I would be very happy if you could tell me what was the procedural proposal of a colleague who spoke before me. But I have a very specific one, because online we can read what's going on in the area of wages, and I think it's good that someone from the government who's here would tell us what's going on right now. If it is true that not even the entire coalition supports what the President has proposed and what Minister Koprivnik has proposed, then indeed, I will say that we are now talking about something that is not. Budget documents are not complete. You all know that. There is a lack of wage action for EUR 300 million. That could be a little bit. Two hundred plus a hundred for the doctors. Those who know the budget understand. I'm really asking someone from the government to tell us what's going on right now in the area of wages within the coalition, outside the coalition, anyway. Enlighten us, not that we Members have to read online about the thing we are talking about today. Today we are talking about the state budget, whose component of 2.5 billion, by the way, is the amount needed to pay. No extra money. Today, we read that, in addition to all the measures already in force, by 1.4%, 1.33% would lower salaries for public servants. You have raised your salaries to your ministers, to your president, but now you will further reduce everyone in addition to all the measures already in force. Oh, that's amazing. Social bargaining, social dialogue, great. Dear Vice President, for once, I ask you to ask someone from the government to come and tell us what's going on with the wage arrangement in the public sector. That, after all, we can talk here too, ask, hear. I think it is unacceptable that we are talking about such an important document, such as the State budget, in such a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bratusek. Let me give you an answer first. I understand from Mr Jani Möderndorfer that we are moving on with our work. But as far as your answer is concerned, I've been looking into it at this time, and don't worry, all the conversations are going on, and we have a clear job to do. By proposing that we continue with the general work of the amendment proposal. Mr. Tanko, I see you'd like to proceed procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Vice President, we're not talking about the budget of the Olympics basketball club. We are discussing the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and beyond for 2018. There at the basketball club, they could afford a way of proposing Mr Möderndorfer. We can't have him here. The rules are in force. You have the rules of procedure. On September 25, 27th, you submitted a budget that was oh and in general. Now it's been a month and three quarters of the next month. And we're in a situation where if you take this to the end, you can't even deal with the budget, and we can't accept it. So I ask, in what way are you going to bring this meeting to a close and is it in this situation when we know that 1.5% of GDP is missing in the budget because this is not done – are we going to move the matter forward or not? 1.5% of the deficit is in the end. If you have 6 million deficits and there is an additional 300 million missing here, it means that this is a deficit of 4.5. Or all the roads away, investment in education away and so forth. We need a clean situation before we take the next step. And before you say anything else, we understand each other. Because there's nothing to talk about, the fog. It's a static undefined structure if I say construction. So I suggest you sit down and tell us how you're going to proceed with the meeting. Forcing us to come into some sort of time crisis at the end, and then with no idea of any xy measure that's not even foreseen here, it doesn't make any sense. That's what you need to know, Vice President, if that's the case. That it doesn't make any sense because we're dealing with something that isn't. There are three wonderful ones talking about this budget, how good it is. Think about it, tell us how things are going to go. But I don't want us to have a story like KK Olympia. I'll tell you one more time, and I suggest you sit down, remember, tell us, so we'll all be ready for the same script and the same thing. However, there will be something else on the agenda, which has nothing to do with the introduced Law on Wages and Other Costs Measures in 2017 and 2018. There'll be no connection to that. Be reasonable and do as I suggest.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. That is precisely why, Mr Tanko, with all due respect, I consider that there is no room for us not to continue the meeting. I would like to give the floor to Mr Bojan Podródsk to continue with what time is meant for us to make a general part of the proposal for amending the budget. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we are talking about the most important document in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the budget for 2017 and the budget for 2018. Given the situation in which we are, apart from the Minister of Infrastructure, the Secretary of the Ministry of Defence does not have representatives of the Government in the Chamber. If anyone, if you'll excuse me, Madam Secretary, I welcome you, too, and I apologize for missing you. If anyone defends this state budget for 2017, 2018, this is colleague Vojka Shergan. But the secretary isn't here. I assume, ma'am, you're out of the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Surely you are here today to ensure that this document is of a significantly better quality than to judge whether this meeting can be suspended or not. We are in the year that we have tried all the time for two years, in the year that the key man of this government left, this is the Minister of Finance. He said good-bye for a while, and then we heard from the Prime Minister and from him that he was leaving for personal reasons. Of course, I assume that this budget has already begun to be drawn up and prepared. We have also heard many times that it would be difficult to form a government if Mr Maramor did not agree to become a finance minister in the Government 2014-2018. But today we are in a situation where there are wage measures and there is a visible gap of 300 million. This is the fact that our group leader, colleague Alenka, has just mentioned. It is very difficult to talk about this budget today, and I also agree with some in this Chamber, that it would certainly make sense for us to stop this meeting for so long, until we get the document and assure everyone, Minister of Finance, especially the President of the Government and all those negotiating with the public sector, doctors, and with whom until they find a common language. Of course, before this extremely important document, in which we talk about defense with a raise, a small raise, but we listen to all those who work in the army over time, we listen to soldiers who serve our country, that the situation is unbearable. It is also a fact that in these two budgets we miss our commitment to NATO. We once signed a document and now we do not provide these funds. On the other hand, we say that we are still an important partner of this force, which is particularly important today. This budget also speaks of agriculture. It is true that there is some money in agriculture that can be drawn from European funds. But it is sad that we have sharpened these regulations, and it is not clear to our farmers why it is very difficult to reach these resources. When we adopt the budget, since 2014, 2 000 300 farms have been closed in Slovenia. This means that every day it closes the door on this farm on these domestics, on two domestics. Speaking of health, I've already said in the beginning that things are not harmonised. In those areas where we add, as was the defence, I now mention health care, then I will touch education, it is true that we are adding, but there are no clear objectives. In health, things aren't fixed. Certainly it is not clear why we are putting 43 million more into education and our companies are looking for employees. Let me also touch an important segment in the Republic of Slovenia, this is education. Just to rebuild or build the infrastructure, we give 800 000 euros. I don't think that's enough for a larger congregation. These investments are overlooked, as a result of which sport is overlooked, and many times those who made up this budget, time, and like to take pictures in some kind of medal. I cannot agree with the great growth mentioned by the drafter of this budget. Above all, I am concerned about an area that I am not clear about, which is mentioned by the largest coalition party running the government, which also comes from the finance minister, and these are the privileges. There is a much greater privilege in 2017 and a much greater privilege in 2018. I am not aware of this, but I am afraid that this does not apply to those who live on the brink of poverty who have extremely small pensions, that it does not concern those who have been deprived of a protective allowance, that this does not apply to those who ask for social assistance, but they are burdened by this social assistance on their homes, so that this does not apply to those parents who are very difficult to send their children to school. I'm also afraid that doesn't apply to those who pay very hard bills. Dear Members and Members, Minister, Minister! We are talking about a budget in which we spend much more than we create in the Republic of Slovenia. We are talking about a budget in which we pay over a billion euros in interest. We are also talking about a budget for which we are not prepared to seize all those funds that are not transparently going through some of the already harmonised water pipelines. It is not so long that someone has shown me an unsigned contract at one of the ministries and when it is signed, I will also make it public, and a contract is concluded for a period of five years for this contractor or signatory, the company needs 4 employees and the contract relates to 250 000 euros a month and the contract is concluded for 5 years. We have many such segments in the Republic of Slovenia and I regret that before the budget is drawn up, we do not want to face the money that is from taxpayers, money that is from citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is from the economy, so that we can put it into the budget carefully and properly, and that citizens and citizens in this Slovenia can live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Underpants. Colleagues, would anyone else like to discuss this point? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the draft amending budget will be held within half an hour following the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of a specific part of the Draft amending budget, and I ask, colleagues, colleagues whether anyone wants to debate. I'm guessing there's no one. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to the budget user 1611, the Ministry of Finance, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Payment of Rights and the amendment of Members of Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratusek. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. With the proposed amendment, we will provide 40 additional million to pay the full regress to the pensioners. I hope my colleagues in Desus here hear me well before me, that we will not then hear the empty promises of how Desus will take care of the pensioners once again in the future. Today, you can take care of it. 40 million can sound a lot, but with a budget where we have a 300 million problem, this problem will be 340 million if you don't care for 300 million, and there will be 40 more not so big a problem. It would be good if, in the economic situation of the country and with which the government would like to commend itself on a daily basis, measures from times of crisis from difficult times end. Full payback to pensioners is one of these. The money would be, of course, because the amendment must be drafted so that if you want to give somewhere, you have to take some money, by reducing the payment of compensation. I expect support in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Bratusek. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and international assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user in 1912, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, and to a discussion on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection, rescue and assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the two amendments of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The new Slovenia has tabled this amendment in order to enable the government and the coalition to respect the laws in this country. In accordance with the Development Support Act of 2017, the country provided about three and a half million little money. It is humiliating, respected colleagues and colleagues, when I read the government's explanation, why it rejects this amendment. First, the government says that the financial year has not yet been completed and that it is difficult to assess what will be the realisation of this item for this year. We in Novi Slovenija know exactly, but we are not co-signers of the treaties. The contracts are signed for the good of €2.6 million. This is the maximum that development support to Pomur could benefit from this item this year. Although there are around €4.8 million on this item for this year. Implementation will therefore be only 2.6 million due to negligence and bureaucratic obstacles in the government or the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, only one third of the Government's explanation is why this might be good, and two thirds of it is dedicated to why we chose the wrong item from which we take this money. If the government were honest and proper with the citizens, it would only write one sentence. I would have written that she had decided not to implement this law and would not respect it. Or is that right, colleagues and colleagues, the Government clearly states: "No, but we will not respect the laws, nor will we respect the constitution." So where did we come from? And we in Pomour are really working on the edge. Forgive my indignation, but I just can't find any more words and ways to prove that 3.5 million money has to be provided for next year. And nothing to anyone. Nobody just stops for half a second to explain objectively why they won't respect the law. Will you, colleagues and colleagues, vote against this amendment? If you vote against it, you will vote against the wrong country. It's just like that, but all you're going to do is deepen this wrong country. That's what this is about. We have a marriage, and if anyone, then we have to stand here to uphold the laws. But the government is already planning its budget line. Development support to the Pomurski region is planning too little money. And now we want to help the government with this amendment, in fact, that laws must be respected. The absorption capacity of the pomur economy is high. And out you throw your bets on the spikes and the bolts. Shameless, demeaning!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment? Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I would like to explain the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party relating to the additional or 5 million funds allocated to the problem border area, and this is the Haloz area. And now I have to say quite like my predecessor, and I'm appalled by the government's explanation. I'll just read what it says. The amendment applies exclusively to the development of the Haloz area, and here you write: "In 2016 certain activities related to the implementation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurski Region." Excuse me. Since when are the Haloses in Pomure? And that's like some fool making out of us. If Haloz can draw on this law – yes, change it, we agree that at least we have the opportunity to obtain additional development funds. But please, such an explanation, and this is a real shame to this government! You're making fun of all the citizens of this area! Our proposal, of course, is that all the parliamentary parties we pledged in 2015 that this area needs special treatment. A working group has been established. A number of proposals, measures have been made, but unfortunately none of these measures are still alive in practice. The only solution is to allocate special funds to this area. The proposal by the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is that the area of Haloz be allocated EUR 5 million for 2017. Listen, well, explanation, here you're talking only about the law for the Pomur region. Let's think about it one more time. This explanation, I can't say anything like it's a larifari, it's not true. I kind of appeal to you. You have all committed yourself to realizing this problem in this area, that a solution is needed, and then we will devote some money to this area. Therefore, I propose once again, let us give the Haloz area an additional EUR 5 million, which will actually bring to life the potential that exists in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the programme of the War of Cemetery and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking for a debate. Mr. Jože Tankko, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group suggests that at the site of the War of Cemetery, or the excavation of victims of World War II and those killed after World War II as unarmed persons, additional funds should be provided for this post. We are of the opinion that digging needs to be accelerated, things arranged, enabling those who are still alive to say good-bye to those who are their own. The vast majority of these survivors are of late age. We assume, however, that it would be right for the funds to be drawn from the heading of the Association of Fighters, for they are the ones who did this. However, the Government's explanation is that I do not know that any of the items from which we anticipate pumping would be involved in any way in various European projects. A European project, a civilised project, is a worthy burial of those who are victims. I think it has to be made possible in some way. It is impossible that we will now be engaged in the next 70 years, when we have come to register, grave records of these graves, and by the start of excavations, for another 70 years. It is necessary to arrange, dig, identify, initiate procedures and provide adequate funds to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As the leader of the parliamentary group has already said, I think it is important that we resolve this area, which concerns the issue of hidden seas, in a dignified manner. But it takes more resources than we've set out so far. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it would be appropriate for a million euros to be paid for the graves, which would be taken from the title of associations of fighters, 250 000 euros, and 750 000 from the title of public administration. It's a civil code. Let me mention here the case of the excavations of the Basket, which we witnessed last, which showed that there were at least two more killing sites. I find it inappropriate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when it went to the opening of one site, has not yet gone to the opening of two seas. It is therefore necessary to allocate funds to this end. Therefore, I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2330, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on the management of agricultural land and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture this year, I convened an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture on the Irrigation System. I was also surprised that more than 50 interested people, who represented such or different bodies or institutions, attended those meetings with representatives of the Government and at least the Members in relation to the attendance list. Let me give you an example. Madam from the Regional Development Agency, I think that North Primorska or Southern Primorska, I apologize, but from where you, Mr Vice-President, are probably at home, said that in the next two, three years you would need 20 million euros exclusively for irrigation in that region. However, if we leave aside the fact that, in addition to irrigation, we want to give this amendment some kind of incentive to the Commissions, to the meliorations, there are only 20 million wishes in one region, and we want to provide at least two additional millions for the urgent solution of the irrigation problem in the Republic of Slovenia. Also, the area from which I come, Posavje, urgently needs funds when building a hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava and the competent say if we do not fix the irrigation problem in the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava, we will miss the story. Not only because I come from Posavje alone, where I see irrigation as one of the key issues, if we want to encourage agriculture in this region, there have been many other regions where, if we put on a common denominator, more than 100 million needs over the next few years to provide a irrigation problem. 2 million is a small amount, but there is some incentive that local communities across Slovenia will not be marked to have any sense that the Ministry of Agriculture does not take care of them in this segment. I would understand that the government opposes this amendment because we are the opposition, and as has been said once before, this government has shown for the second time that it is the only government so far that it does not respect the opposition's proposals. We used to listen: we suggested you take it or leave it. And then we were still insulted at how ugly we were, because we're proposing anything at all. We propose amendments that are balanced. Someplace you can take it from somewhere. If in the National Assembly not only the members of the coalition, who are silent, do not have the courage to propose amendments, that the members of the opposition are also directed to be silent, not to suggest, respected, we all have one problem together, which is called – what our parliamentary democracy is. And where did we want to take this $2 million? 600 000 euros from Government support. I would like to ask, Madam President, how many new jobs were in the General Secretariat of the Government in 2016 and how much tax collectors and taxpayers cost. We didn't get that answer in your refusal. It just says here how the General Secretariat represents support for the government's actions. I'll tell you again what we were hoping to say to ourselves, "there are too many people in the General Secretariat who are not working very hard." But, as it is said, because you do not have the right priorities, you reject such amendments as are urgently necessary in order to prevent further economic and agricultural damage. But apparently this wagon will lead this coalition to a place where no irrigation will be necessary. After 2018, the coalition will also be followed by a total drought in the field of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Fox. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the same sub-programme concerns the area of the municipality of Podlohnnik. Today we have already heard that one of the projects that is going on, and also through some timeframes, is the completion of the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. However, the Ministry of Agriculture has received 1.6m euros in agricultural land purchases in the area. Since we have the Rogatnica stream, which is located in a number of agricultural land in the municipality of Podlohnnik, we propose that the Ministry of Agriculture use part of these funds which it has received to regulate this stream and thus protect agricultural land. For 2017, we propose that these funds amount to EUR 500 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss two amendments? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, and to the debate on the amendments tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the three amendments Members Dr. Miriam Bon Klanšek and Mag. Alenka Bratušek and the five amendments of the SDS Group of Members. He wants someone to discuss it. Mr. Jože Tankko, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your word. We propose that on the G2-106 road this is from Škofljica towards the Petrin border crossing due to the extremely increased transit freight traffic as well as personal traffic associated with daily migration, some of the bottlenecks represented by them, located in Lasja, Ribnica and Kočev, are eliminated. It's basically three shells of three of the largest settlements and three of the biggest bottlenecks. This largely opens the transit routes, also opens up additional trade zones, shortens travel time to Ljubljana and in some way increases the attractiveness of the area. With regard to these three bonds, I would just like to recall what the Government wrote in its reply: "The amendment is technically feasible, but the Government rejects the amendment because it interferes with the resources of the Ministry of Public Administration." It's hard to think of anything stupider than an argument to say no. The amendment is technically feasible, that is to say, to make it possible for all three bypasses to start moving into space, to start buying-in procedures and so on, but because these 930 thousand euros will break the Ministry of Public Administration system, that is not the case. Correctly tabled amendment, the government admits that everything is feasible and thus rejects. The second amendment refers to the completion of the main road, that is to say state roads at one section through Ribnica, the section is approximately 600 meters long. All conditions for recovery are met. This is the only remaining unfinished rehabilitation or reconstruction in the area, and there is absolutely no rational reason why this project, which costs a total of 800 000, works in two years. The final works, transports and removals of mechanisms will carry a third of this amount, which we have foreseen to increase. The only logical thing to do is to do it that way. But there's probably a problem here, too, that the problems, the explanation is very similar. The amendment is technically feasible, but is rejected by the Government because it interferes with the budgetary resources of other budgetary users. There is no reason to draw from an item where this is not possible, such as from European funds or from other restrictive matters, but even when possible, the Government does not allow it. Amendment No 6 refers to the modernisation of the road to the cemetery at Kren. We anticipate 800 000 euros to cover the road and to make a decent access to this mass grave and to arrange an appropriate parking space. In this case, too, the government wrote in the reply 'the amendment is technically feasible, but the government rejects it because it interferes with the Ministry of Public Administration'. What reasoned reason is that? From one bureaucratic item, the state cannot allocate EUR 800,000 for an investment. Amendment 7 means the completion of the section with sidewalks between Ribnica and Breg. This is where things ended years ago and there is no valid reason why traffic safety would not be regulated, especially as regards pedestrians, but also the necessary construction of bus stations. Here, too, the Government has written that the amendment is technically feasible, but the Government rejects it because it interferes with the funds of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. So, with these amendments, which I have now listed, we do not propose anything that is not feasible and which is not properly placed and properly drawn, but the government draws to the hair for some reason. Amendment No 8 refers to the modernisation of the road to the grave of the Huda Cave. We anticipate a million and 200 000 euros to make at least a decent road to this mass grave, where many come to worship the victims, and to mark accessibility. In this case, the Government has written the same that the amendment is technically feasible, but the Government rejects it because it interferes with the funds of the Financial Administration. Now I'm just asking this government what's left here, whether this budget was by chance made up of the pope or maybe there are just some changes, additions and other things that the government has foreseen. You've written this down and you're treating it like it's the only possible version of the budget you've written. It's the only thing that's possible. Nothing can be taken or taken here, nothing there. I would ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance to explain to us why the amendments we are proposing are technically feasible, that is to say that the construction profession can implement them in 2017, and what would be the collapse if they were taken from the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Public Administration, or any other budgetary user, where it would be possible to anticipate capture or, say, what part of civil society. We don't get any explanation. The government is also sitting here, and no one is communicating with the parliamentary groups and with the motions for amendments, and that is sad. Look, this isn't government. And for this non-communication, there is some terrible arrogance that is present. If you are not able to argue the reasons and explain why technically feasible amendments to these vehicles are not appropriate for this government, then I do not know what we are doing here. But before that, as you know, I have suggested that we stop at all, or that you should consider if this budget is even possible to be completed in the way it is dealt with because 1.5% of GDP is unbalanced. What we're proposing is all balanced, properly invested, technically feasible, only to someone's nose swinging and he said no. And now you're saying this to the unconscious: no, no, no, no. It's like these are God's laws that you brought to the National Assembly. In fact, he's just a schmuck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, before I give you my word, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Janc, State Secretary. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to explain why the Government has written that the amendment is technically feasible and rejects it because it interferes with the resources of certain state authorities. All the amendments rejected also contain a detailed explanation of the Government's reasons why it is not possible for individual budget users to take some of the financial resources you have proposed. It is thus written for the Financial Administration that the Financial Administration, in accordance with the Financial Administration Act, performs the tasks entrusted to it by law. And if we want tax recovery to be much better, and if we want to improve activities in this area too, it is impossible to limit them with financial resources. A similar detailed explanation is made for the Government's Development and European Cohesion Policy, where the transfer of funds is also proposed, indicating what the European Cohesion Policy funds are intended for, as they are planned with a plan and with the objectives of the new financial perspective operational programme adopted. Slovenian participation is also needed if we are to draw on European funds at the level we have been allocated. This is also the reason why resources from these items cannot be redistributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Janc. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Janc, if this budget, as a final account, is to be realised as accurately as you have now read it, then that is true. But if you look at last year's closing account and last year's, and for all the years from the beginning, when the final accounts have been executed after the budget has been implemented, you will see that this deviates by 30% in the global of all matters. Therefore, you also have negative opinions from the Court of Auditors. If an amendment to an item that is tens of millions of euros and has some small amount that means a system collapse, then something in this country is wrong. If this were to happen, you have the authority to redistribute costs or items. Outside the government, only the Ministry, subroutines, inter-programmes and so on, you have all of this. And you can't paint us here so we can't do that. You can't catch a cold like that. And there's something else. For all of these amendments, which I have read that the amendment is technically feasible, but is taking funds from an administration or a budgetary user, all of this has been written in most of these amendments since last year. If you look back and check, you wrote the same thing last year. So I'm just asking who paints who here and makes a fool out of us. You're making a fool out of us. If the amendment, Mrs Janc, had been tabled, as you have read it, wrongly in order to draw on the items of European funds, it would have been rejected in the National Assembly when we tabled it, because this is their task. But the amendment is: technically correctly prepared, correctly inserted, drawn from the right items. And in this way, the government can't turn him down with such an explanation. You need to think of something smarter. He can't refuse him much more because she wrote the same thing last year with the amendments we tabled. And a few years ago. This is said to have done absolutely nothing in this government over the past two years as regards technical feasibility. Where technically not feasible, you have given 200 million euros – the second track. That wasn't the problem. I suggest that if you argue, try harder. What bothers me at all is that there are enormous differences between the budget and the final account. And then a government official comes in and interprets it as if it was millimetre-precision, measured how precisely this was done. Ma'am, it's not. But you have so much flexibility because you've passed legislation in the Budget Implementation Act. Is that right? More than he's holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I really don't know if this government and coalition today have such a state in the country that it can afford such an arrogant and non-cooperating relationship in this national assembly. If it were true that everything we had previously heard that we would have wanted more, then in fact the Government could not have written down that the amendment was rejecting because it was interfering with the budgetary resources of another user, in the fact that this same amendment had been tabled over the past year. This means that the Government is not as tolerant of other members of the National Assembly and, with respect, to citizens and citizens, to look at last year's amendments that have been rejected by the boycott because of the poor situation. Today, when we talk about economic growth, it writes the same things. This is simply not about wanting to do something anymore, but about just who the proposer is. See, between these amendments there is also an amendment for the arrangement of the section Dvor in the municipality of Žuzemberk or in this area. I'm really curious when you're assuming some resources into infrastructure, or who's even looking at the demographic picture of that environment. Does anyone think that individual environments are being emptied because they are not the least of the basics? I don't think so. Because otherwise, 500 000 euros could not pose such a problem. And yes, indeed, it would be necessary to reduce it on some other items. And I'll tell you which ones. In this case, it would be a matter of dealing with real property. And if you asked me someone with common sense, I would even consider it necessary to literally collect funds here. All the resources. And I'll tell you why. For when we discussed this subject on the parental committee, we learned that the competent ministry does not even have a basic picture of the municipalities, how much of this property we have or use, how much property or real property and everything else we rent and where we are tenants. There's no record of that. Believe me, if it were, it would be very easy to show where to get this 500 thousand euros. I now list a few congregations where our buildings, state buildings alone are renovated, usable, but at the same time we rent expensive premises across the street. Money is sometimes on hand, only to someone obviously in this country is it not in the interest of any matter to be crystallised. 500 000 euros for those who persist to survive and live in a kind of normal way, because it is a dangerous section, it would not be any problem, but it is only a matter of ascension. But, you know, in fairy tales, it costs a fortune, let alone reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Mrs. Eva Irgle, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! It appears that this budget will once again happen that the coalition will not support any amendment of the opposition, no matter how well-meaning these amendments are and how important they are to local communities. Let me remind you here that when there were some other governments, either the government of Janez Janša or the government of Borut Pahor or the government of Anton Rope, always, but at least an amendment of the opposition has always been adopted. Well, this time we will once again witness that as a roller driver you are going over all the proposals proposed by the opposition. I'd stop at the amendment under point 5. One of the projects is the construction of the sidewalk and road infrastructure through the village of Manče in the municipality of Vipava, amounting to EUR 200 000. I proposed this, and then the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled it. I would like to point out that it is imperative to settle this footpath because it is a state road linking Vipavska to Crassus and at the same time it is a security issue. Those who drive there will be able to see why the arrangement of this road is still important. Of course, I wanted to settle some other matters within the Vipava and also the Ajdov Congregation, but for the time being, if at least this amendment is adopted, I will be very pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, the word is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. In our professional world, we have made a very thorough review of investments and maintenance in regional and main roads in the Republic of Slovenia. We have chosen, depending on the need for urgency in different places, in different regions, those basic priorities that have been or have been on the waiting list for a long time for the implementation itself or have certain procedures prepared to the extent that it is possible to start a project, or it is also a new project, given the current situation, in view of the current need for a specific environment. For all the amendments that we have tabled, they show the value of about 18 million. It is not a relatively large asset, but these funds could do a great deal and improve the situation on the regional or main road. If I go concretely, the budget with proposals in the event of an increase also lists proposals for a balance. We have proposed a reduction in resources mainly at the expense of the public administration. In our view, the public administration is too rich, too richly rewarded. As we look at how the number of employees is growing in public administration and how resources are growing in the budget, because there is an absolute increase in spending and we believe that these are the larger items both in the organisation of public administration, in the spatial conditions for the work of the public authorities, in short, things need to be reduced, not in fact administration and public administration. Now, if I'm going specifically to the projects. One of the very important projects is the section of the Polzel–Velenje road. We know that this section is spaced into space. The construction of a fast road, the third development axis from the A1 to Velenje motorway, will take place in this area. In the case of construction, which will take place later than in a few years, it is a parallel section, the connection of Velenja to the A1 motorway, and this road will be extremely burdensome. With relatively small costs, we anticipate, we proposed in the proposal a million and a half in 2017, the most urgent sections could be reconstructed, extended, made more transportable and improved. Then there are several regional roads in the proposal, section Down–Ponikva– Long Go – Loče, the project has been in the Directorate’s plan for quite some time, and an ideal design, estimated value, was already developed in 2009. The road is on the waiting list, the situation is catastrophic, parallel work has also been done on the railway infrastructure of Long Gora-Poljčana, and therefore this road has been over-burdened and the situation has actually deteriorated significantly. After that, the construction of the connecting bridge across the Drava stream between the Municipality of Starša and Duplek, in the Municipality of Ptuj. At the time of the construction of the building permit at the time of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant, the condition was recorded that instead of three ships, since three ships had previously driven the site before the construction of the hydroelectric power plant, a condition was laid down for the construction of the bridge. This bridge isn't here today. The sites are evolving and there is a need for a link between the municipalities on both sides of this hydroelectric power plant holder, which is why the need for this bridge is now exceptional. By proposing to continue with the production of the study, the eligibility of construction and the allocation of €150,000. We're talking about very small funds. Then it is a reconstruction, an extension of the road of the regional road Tržiště–Hotemjež at the section Šentjanz-Glina of EUR 500 000. Then the arrangement of the crossings in the Savina Valley of Šempeter-Polzel at EUR 50 000. This is said to prepare documentation, arrange intersections in Žalec as well and build an income for pedestrians in Žalec. Then there is the rehabilitation of the Solčava beach of EUR 500 000, the continuation of the Luča bypass activity of EUR 200 000, the modernisation of the Sevnica-Planina regional road of EUR 400 000. Then there are even smaller sections where there are smaller amounts, but these sections are also important. We also propose a million 200 thousand rehabilitations of Laško-Podšmihel-Strmec-Šmiel-Kurtno-Trnov Hrib-Huda Jama. The road is seven kilometers low and this road is in extremely bad shape. It is mainly about the arrangements of the above system, so that this need is absolutely necessary here as well. We believe that the approach to the proposals of our amendments is purely a professional aspect and somehow I cannot understand that the position is repeatedly without any comments, and in this case we hear that the matter is well prepared, justified, but unfortunately these amendments will not be supported. I believe that the need itself will show, and also a good professional approach, add something, contribute to the improvement of road traffic conditions in the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that all these projects, which we will point to more than once, will come into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Žnidar. Someone else wants to discuss the amendments tabled. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550, the Ministry of Environment and Space, and to a debate on the amendments tabled for this accounting user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Lord Daniel the Crimson, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In this amendment and in both of the following, dealing with water management, these are amendments that increase the sub-items in this area, particularly in the area of water management. This is a problem that affects virtually everyone in this country. We've been alerting that for a long time. Unfortunately, however, in these two budgetary documents, the government has actually gone against the adopted documents it has adopted in the past. The Action Plan, adopted in 2014, prepared and confirmed both short-term and long-term measures to ensure flood safety and to address the consequences of floods. The main objective was to ensure greater flow of Slovenian watercourses and to reduce flood risk and thus the potential damage to the future. This action plan was endorsed by the government and foreseen an increase in funding to meet these objectives. If we look at both budgets, all of these items are practically not only increasing, but actually decreasing. In fact, the government and the ministry are in breach of the commitments made in the Flood Action Plan. Finally, it denies all the promises made by the Ministry at the meetings of both the home committees and the meetings of this National Assembly, where it has always been ensured that the following budgets, when we consider the coming budgets, will result in an increase in these items for 2017 and 2018, which will mean that both the maintenance of watercourses and the removal of the consequences of previous floods and other inconveniences will be reduced or eliminated. This is not happening, so we are proposing amendments in this area. This, however, proves in some way that this is also justified because, just today and yesterday, all stakeholders in the field of disaster management, as well as those involved in the maintenance of watercourses, have sent an open letter to the Government or to the President, Dr. Mir Cerar, pointing out this drastic increase in flood damage that will happen to us if the damage to date is not eliminated and if some normal maintenance of watercourses and their normal flow is not ensured. This letter was sent to the President of the Government a few days ago and is in some way consistent with the warnings that we are sending to the Ministry and the Government all the time. That is why I expect you to consider and finally, when you press for support for certain amendments, to somehow decide in the direction that you are defending, at least through your own words, in the direction that this problem needs to be addressed, to increase the means to remedy these consequences, and, on the other hand, to provide certain means to prevent further flooding of people and property. And not least that you will also respect your accepted documents that have been adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Guilty. Anyone else want a word with the amendment? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. In the area of flood safety, we also proposed an increase of 2 million and a half to regulate the Savinja riverbank at the section Ločica near Savinja to Letus. The State Spatial Plan was adopted for this section in 2009. In short, the conditions are met, and technical documentation is also produced, only means are lacking for the rehabilitation at this section along the Savinja River, the rehabilitation of the Savanje River banks themselves. It is also necessary because there is actually urbanization on both sides, both from the municipality of Polzela and from the municipality of Braslovč, so to speak, up to the river Savinja itself. In the event that these shores do not recover, economic damage will be caused here to a greater extent. Therefore, the need to place this project in immediate implementation is more than necessary. We know that the country owns these watercourses and is also obliged to take care of these watercourses. If we look back a little bit, there have also been some cases where the municipalities have been threatened if the state acts as a bad host, in which case a poor watershed master would be suing the country in fact. Some of these cases, I would say, may have been a threat in the past, but I think in the future they will have to carry out each of their tasks, in which case the owner will have to reduce the potential danger that is so open in this case. The first major increase in the Savinja River will flood the area and cause catastrophic damage. But it won't be a natural disaster. This will be an accident that is clearly known today, knows precisely, and will result from the owner's incontinence and irresponsibility in this case. For me, a natural disaster is an earthquake, or in this case it will not be an earthquake, but it will be a perfectly normal rise in the Savinja River, which in this case can cause tremendous damage. [[…]] This probability is predictable, and we all know it and know it. That is why this department is so urgent and I appeal to the Ministry of the Environment to take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the United Left, we propose that 3 million additional funds be allocated for housing activities. Why? Housing funds have been running low for years, and housing in this country is becoming a growing problem. My entire generation, especially those whose families, parents were unable to provide adequate housing, depends on the bank's credits they rent for 20, 25, 30 years, in short, the credit commitment, becoming credit slaves for their virtually entire active life. We therefore propose that additional resources be provided on this sub-programme. 3 million is not a large amount, but it would be a start, at least some signal, that the state intends to act in this area and that we will not commit young generations to lifelong credit slavery. We therefore propose that these funds be redeployed. Where would they take these funds? They would be taken to the heading from which the operations of the Slovenian Armed Forces are currently financed abroad. According to last year's consumption, this item will increase by 53% by 2019. This item, however, finances things such as the accommodation of our soldiers in Latvia, which is counterproductive both from the point of view of spending public money and from the point of view of ensuring peace. We're not the only ones in the United Left who sign under that position. Even the current, future President of the United States points out the counterproductiveity of provoking Russia, and last but not least, we have here in the coalition a party of the SD, whose president said the following for the evening officer. "I don't understand why Europe, which has so many problems and is struggling to solve them, is deepening the conflict with Russia. I do not understand why, at a time when dialogue and new economic opportunities need to be sought, further conduct actions which Russia can see as hostile." Mr Weber stated on the committee that there would be no such operation if he were a minister, in short, that the DZ had somehow decided when he had relieved him. We stress that the National Assembly will not decide Latvia for a simple reason because the coalition has rejected our amendment to the Defence Act. At that time, it was an opportunity to prevent this operation, today we have the opportunity to invest money instead of investing in an operation that could be a direct threat to our future, to invest money in housing policy and thus provide young people with a decent future. As I mentioned at the outset, we have a whole generation of young people who have a serious housing problem. Housing in the country is chronically lacking, in urban centres is too expensive, banks charge rents for them and instead of spending money on such things as this operation, we prefer it to regulate housing policy and it will be better for everyone. That is why I call on the parliamentary groups to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Master Andrej Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The amendment concerns the regulation or management of waters in the Cerknica area, where it is a desiccating Cerknica lake and in each rain, it actually happens that the inhabitants have fear and unrest, that the floods of 2014 will recur. For this reason it is necessary not only to arrange Lake Cerknica, but also all the tributaries flowing into Lake Cerknica. For this reason, we propose to provide 500 000 euros for these purposes. That would be a lot for this area. Especially because people have to somehow protect their property, their assets. In view of the fact that property, house, barns, has already happened several times in the past, it is essential that this is actually ensured. Unfortunately, the government's opinion is negative. In its opinion, the government says that funds are provided for all the planned programmes for 2017. As I know, they're missing. A little money, that 500 thousand euros for water management in the vicinity of Lake Cerknica. For this reason, I once again believe that this is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, I understand that the Government has taken full responsibility if there is actually a flood on Lake Cerknica. What it means in other words – if it comes, I think people will turn directly to the Ministry of Finance and get money for this damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving to a budget user of 2551, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, and to a discussion on the amendment tabled in this budget consumer. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget consumer 2611, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget consumer. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Employment Initiative and the amendment of the Members of Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratusek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, I would like to tell you that the Committee on Education of the National Assembly, when it addressed the problem of the closure of the Primary School in Osilnica, adopted a decision instructing the Government to seek other projects of public funding to stop evictions from these border areas. The deadline for responding to this decision was thirty days, that is to say until 29 October of this year. The government has done nothing during this period. Since the Government has done nothing, we have tabled an amendment to the previous hearing, as well as an amendment to today's hearing at this meeting of the National Assembly, with the aim of completing the already built home in the Osilnica for the elderly. Since the government obviously has no interest whatsoever in preparing some solutions for problematic border areas, the opposition party has nothing left but to propose what needs to be completed. As you have seen, the Government is extremely negative about this amendment, explaining that it does not support it at all. At the same time, the government is proposing absolutely nothing else. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, I would like you to appeal to the Government to at least when a solution is agreed upon by the National Assembly. Given the fact that we are now dealing with the budget, as of 27 September, when the budget was invested in the National Assembly, 29 has been decided on the resistance, it is now 15, 16. November, I could invent something and suggest that this problem be resolved in that endangered small-border municipality with Croatia. Some kind of program that would at least offer some jobs. Unfortunately, the implementation of such simple conclusions as the Education Committee's decision is obviously a serious problem for this government team. Especially for a team at the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The Ministry heard that. But it's basically an abuse of procedure. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2613, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme on Work Management and Control and the amendment of the United Left Group. He wants someone to discuss it. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you for saying that again. In Slovenia we currently have 77 labour inspectors who are supposed to control more than 200,000 business entities. These two figures already show great discrimination between those who are supposed to monitor violations of labour law and the number of business entities. 77 people simply cannot and cannot control 200 000 registered companies in this country, so in the light of the fact that in recent years the number of violations of the labour law from year to year is increasing, it seems only reasonable for us to see the number of labour inspectors increase. We would therefore move EUR 500 000 to the Labour Inspectorate to hire or hire new inspectors through these funds. We have already requested an opinion from the Government, which has practically not responded to our initiative or, when it rejected our amendment to the 2018 budget, it has not identified the issue of staff inspection. It only wrote down if an increase in the number of preventive actions occurred in 2018, the Ministry and the Government could coordinate possible manoeuvring and surpluses with transfers during the year. That's an empty excuse. Labour inspectors are not some agency workers who can be hired if necessary, but are people who need training, a specific set of skills and must be employed there. We therefore propose to provide an additional half million for work inspectors for the year 2017, as we will propose for 2018 tomorrow. The money would be transferred from the implementation and regulation of the public financial policy, which is increasing by €3.5 million this year. In view of the increase in the item, when we do not see any increase in the liabilities in this segment, I think it would be no harm if we moved half a million to the Labour Inspectorate because, as pointed out, there is an urgent need for additional resources and additional inspectors to ensure respect for the labour rules and principles of decent work and the social state in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2711, Ministry of Health, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Investment at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Please, don't procedurally say that the government hasn't done anything because it's not procedural. Please, procedurally, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. President, I didn't know you even saw into my brain what I was going to say. Look, there's no Ministry of Education and Sport here. So please, if you can provide someone to explain this explanation, which is not correct. The fact is that it is not accurate and misleading for the general public and for us as well, and we cannot work in this way. It's impossible to write one, but it's worth something else. That is why I am now addressing the question to you, President, and I ask you if you can then give it to the competent authorities, who will pay for this to generate costs for the municipalities, which are still somewhat large due to delays and late interest and everything else, which follows from the contracts concluded under the 2017 budget, which was initially adopted. Since there's no one here, please, if you get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Janc, please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We'll get you that answer and you'll get it by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3340, Ministry of Culture, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you for saying that again. With this amendment, we want to provide more resources for the protection of cultural heritage and archival and library activities. These funds have been allocated a large cut of almost €15 million in the 2016 budget. It is true that, largely because of the loss of European funds, but now that there are no more European funds, it will be necessary to preserve cultural heritage and to develop library and archiving activities somewhere. We are proposing here a rather modest measure to provide 1.2 million additional resources for these purposes to begin, which is further substantiated by the fact that the overall cultural resources from the beginning of the crisis have decreased by as much as €60 million to date, making the social and economic situation of employees in this segment significantly worse, while at the same time it will be necessary to develop, maintain and develop a library activity as an intelligent society. I call on Members of the Group to support our amendment to provide an additional million and a half for this purpose – I apologize, I have previously given the wrong number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 4215, District Court in Celje, and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution of support activities and the amendment of Members of Dr Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratusek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 4216, District Court in Cyprus, and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution of support activities and the amendment of Members of Dr Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratusek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 4217, District Court in Kranj, and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenka Bratusek, anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4219, the Maribor District Court, and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenke Bratusek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4220, the District Court in Murska Sobota, and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenke Bratusek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4221, the Regional Court in Nova Gorica and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenka Bratusek, anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4222, the New Town District Court, and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenka Bratusek, anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 4223, District Court in Krske, and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenka Bratusek, anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 4224, District Court on Ptuj, and to debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenka Bratusek, anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4225, the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenke Bratusek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 4230, the District Court in Ljubljana, and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative Dispute Resolution – supporting activities and the amendment of members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and mag. Alenka Bratusek, anyone want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the draft amending budget will be held within half an hour following the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The vote on the development programme plan will take place within the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the third item of the agenda. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. By letter sent to us by the Government at approximately 3 p.m., referring to the negotiation or non-contraction with the public sector unions, some specific new circumstances, unforeseen circumstances and in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73, I propose that the meeting be suspended in order to obtain the opinion of the Government in writing and the reasoned opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service relating to the way in which the work is carried out and the procedures necessary for carrying out the examination of the budgetary documents. I have already proposed, but the previous president has rejected this, and I now propose that we formally acquire these things. Circumstances have changed significantly. There is about €300 million in the game, about half of the projected deficit allowance, says it will be €900 million instead of €600. If there is no EUR 900 million and 4.5% of GDP around, there will be so much less investment. There will be no more highway program, there will be no more programs in social homes, in school renovations and sports facilities and so on. In view of this, honourable Presidents, I propose that we obtain opinions which are relevant to the continuation of the consideration of this item or those two agenda items. There is a written opinion of the Government and a written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Mr Jože Tanko, we can also get this opinion before the vote tomorrow, and we will do so. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, this is the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	Now I don't know how you think about those in the coalition, but the circumstances have changed significantly by letter from the government, not by some opinion from the opposition MP or some opposition group. If we want to have a normal debate on the 2018 budget, then we need Members to have relevant data and acts to discuss and decide on them. When we got to half the treatment, you turned it down. However, for 2018 there are no valid reasons why the situation should be clarified that the situation is being clarified, that we know of the consequences. We cannot hold a budgetary debate on the basic fictitious documents submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. Where else did you see that? I propose that the meeting be suspended and that you obtain the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as provided for in the last sentence of the third paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. We can't just deal with something, but there'll be another story tomorrow. Then postpone consideration of the sitting, agenda items, to the time when the agreement with the public sector unions will be known. And some other unions, by the way. Don't do anything that can be completely different tomorrow and it'll all be on our heads and someone will laugh at what we've been talking about. We're a serious institution. If we want the budgets to be taken seriously, and they probably deserve it, then we also need to take the procedure seriously. It's not like I said before, the budget of the Olympics basketball club, when someone allows themselves to have something, but something isn't, but something on the table, something under the table. That's not working. Members must be informed of these matters if we are to discuss them, let alone decide. I suggest you stop this meeting and just get what I suggested.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Mr Jože Tanko, of course, I will set up this meeting because we have the basic parameters, but if the Committee decides on something quite different, we will have to take this into account before the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. Magistrate Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	Yes, Madam Vice-President, I have listened well now and you have said that we have the basic parameters for this budget. So I ask, the Minister is with us to explain these basic parameters for the area of public sector wages. Because we didn't have them half an hour ago or 15 minutes ago. I will be very pleased if, before we go to the general part of the state budget for 2018, the Minister or any other representative of the Government can explain the basic parameters of public sector wages at this time. I am aware that within an hour they may have been different, that they may have been different an hour ago, and this is what we are trying to tell you – that your parameters change from minute to minute. Perhaps it is right that we are familiar with the most current ones here in the National Assembly. I believe that you agree with me, Mr Vice-President, so I ask that in some way we be assured, including us, of this behaviour, at what stage this minute of wage negotiations are. In two hours, as if we have a state of war, in two hours we will have an internal affairs committee in the middle of the night. I wonder if we already have an emergency situation in Slovenia. Looks like it. Those accompanying this meeting today will indeed have the feeling that we have a state of emergency in Slovenia and that everything needs to be done today and that night. But okay, if you've already made up your mind and if you've already made an emergency situation, because it's just you, just this coalition or this government first, we'll see how much the coalition can save, please tell us, please, so that I can continue to participate in the 2018 budget debate, where we are now with salaries in the public sector. My procedural proposal is that you find someone sitting here, a government representative, to enlighten us about what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I will give the representatives of the ministry a chance to say what they have to say in the general debate. That's why I want to start the agenda, and somehow you're not up for it. Mr. Jože Tanko, please proceed procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	Mr Vice President, you don't believe me or you ignore me, okay, but Alice Bratusek was the Prime Minister of the Government and for a decade or more, the guardian of the budget. So some things he probably knows. He probably knows what you need if you want to accept something that you need. The Minister will be able to explain the budget, but she cannot explain to us the 5th point, which is called the law right now. But it's all connected. I don't understand someone who wants to work under the constitution and laws and who wants to hold a meeting under the rules of procedure, and this doesn't work, but he just insists on some rape that this parliamentary mechanism, the parliamentary roller driver, goes on. How you need to defend these things in this way, and on the other hand, you are dealing with some bits and pieces. But this is about cardinal things, this is not about 0.17% of the pension increase. For a cup of coffee. Look, we're not talking about one coffee. We are talking about 300 million euros. EUR 300 million is half of the projected deficit in this budget. Half the deficit! Something will have to be done about the structure of the budget if you want to keep the promise of 3% or a little less than 3% to Brussels. Whatever will change in this work will have to be done. And now we're going to talk long and hard about the chapters of these and others, the parameters of these and others, and none of them are true. I therefore propose, Mr President, that we vote to obtain the opinion of the Government and to obtain an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. You are obliged to put this to the vote because the National Assembly decides on this. If you refuse, it is a second question, but you must put to the vote because such a proposal is also designed and the procedure is so. And this misdirection is slow enough with this coalition. Don't make scandals bigger than they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	Dr. Brglez, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In view of the point at which we are in the process, point 4 has begun. It follows from point 4 that this is the 2018 budget, whereas the point that is problematic and what you are actually talking about is the proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures. We haven't even gotten there yet. The fact is that I have already pointed out this when we adopted the whole budget. That's a fact, too. That the procedural conditions for this exist are substantive, however, those to which the Government must respond. For this reason, I propose that we proceed with Point 4 that the Government should at all come to the conclusion that, on the basis of a substantive explanation, we can see whether the substantive criteria are also met. The content criteria and the fulfilment of the substantive criteria are not a matter of procedure itself, while the management of the meeting requires respect for the procedure itself. The conditions for us to hold this debate now are the conditions for us to hold a debate on 5. The points, they haven't been fulfilled yet. And until these conditions for point 5 are met, we will most likely not be able to decide on the entire budget. You all know this very well, but at this point it is possible to continue the debate by finally reaching the word of the Government. I therefore propose that the meeting be resumed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. See, Mr President, when a procedural proposal is drawn up, it must be decided on. You cannot correct this now with five other procedural proposals. This is the order of the amendments, tk, tk, tk. And it's a vote. I proposed that – as stated in the Rules of Procedure – the opinion of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service should be further discussed by the National Assembly. There is a need to vote on that. You can't say that you won't put it to the vote. An integral part of the procedure is the vote. And no more fooling around with this scandalous, scandalous process of dealing with it. By the way, I have already proposed this at the previous point, but you have "scrambled" or you have not decided, and now I insist on voting. As you decide, I don't care much about anything, but I need to make a decision, not to ignore it, and thus to place it with my left hand with some procedural proposal that needs to be voted on. The coalition is for her to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote the proposal to proceed with the opening of agenda item 4. Who's in? Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope you understand my procedural proposal. I have proposed that the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in conjunction with the decision submitted by the Government to the Members of the National Assembly, be obtained prior to the debate at this point of the agenda. That's what we're voting on. That was the suggestion. There was, above all, no other procedural proposal. And it's up to you. If there is any other procedural proposal then you will decide on another. But not first about one that wasn't even there, then it's out. Let's go in line, as proposed. Don't mess around with these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u155	Good. I don't see any substantive difference. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorf, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u156	Vice President, my proposal is as follows. Firstly, the conditions discussed by my colleague Tanko are not met, so that anything must now be voted on. The fact is that Mr Tanko will provoke you to the end of the debate with these proposals and will try to lead you in any way into the temptation you have almost now made. This is to even vote on some interruption. I ask you kindly, and I will repeat it all the time, every time we conclude the budget debate, and before we go to the vote, it is more than clear that the Government must say whether the budget is harmonised. If there is no need for harmonisation amendments, procedures shall be known. It is not in the meantime that we find and ask the Legislative and Legal Service whether we can discuss the budget in Parliament or not. Especially at a time when some points have not yet been discussed. Of course, the opposition has every opportunity to do what Mr Tanko is doing. Far from telling him he can't. Of course you can. It's just tricks and maneuvers, and I'd like to ask you, Vice President, if we're taking the debate forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u157	Magistrate Alenka Bratusek, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u158	I wonder who's running the session now. That's my first procedural question. If so, Vice President, lead the way, and then lead it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But what the president of the National Assembly said earlier with the benches there is something really funny. The Wage Action Act is indeed the fifth point, Mr President. But do you know what impact it has on the budget? You know? So it would be very difficult to talk without knowing what you've agreed on in the field. At least we don't know. Light us up, please! And second of all. I propose to those who have heard this now, because I have heard it several times, that you are talking about the harmonisation amendment to explain to us and the whole of universal Slovenia what the harmonisation amendment is. This means that if any amendment is adopted in a specific part of the budget, you will have to prepare a harmonisation amendment and harmonise the general part of the budget. Not that you're going to be butchering the budget for the wages a little bit on the line. What you're doing with the budget right now is a real shame. Shame! Work, for you are modern, forward-looking authorities, and this is a new policy. This is a new policy to talk about the budget and we don't know where you're going to get 300 million. You talk about public servants like potatoes, a little bit there. One percent here, 50 million there you're gonna take away. Really? Are we even a national convention? Let's do what needs to be done, let's do what needs to be done. Vice-President, I ask that only one person in this Chamber be in charge of a meeting of the National Assembly. If not, so can any of us. Let's split it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u159	Dr. Milan Brglez, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u160	On a procedural basis, Mr Vice-President, I would like you to point out to Ambassador Alenko Bratušek that she has nothing to discuss with the Member of Parliament in the bench. There is absolutely nothing to discuss with a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal is intended only for the President and no one else. It's not meant to be debated, not qualifications, not insults. This is the foundation of democracy that we know in the modern world. I've made my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please. We could have done this slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As it is said, I propose that we proceed in a series of votes, such as those tabled and proposed by the process proposals. However, I would ask you to teach my colleague Jani Möderndorfer when to invest and discuss the harmonisation amendments. That's not at this stage. That will be when we accept something else, then the harmonisation amendment will come. Tell him not to explain things he doesn't know. The procedure for examining the budget shall have its legality, order and so on. And also, Mr Vice-President, who is sitting, voting also has an order. You have a proposal there to discuss and vote on the amendments. Similarly, procedural proposals are voted on in order of maturity. I therefore propose that you put the proposal I have put to the vote. But the reasons are everyone we've told, they all stand. One of them wasn't denied either, the only muscles holding you together. I suggest we vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u163	I will put it to the vote, but I will put it to the vote as I originally formulated it. You wanted to break the agenda by asking for some opinions. Not to mention. And I put this proposal to the vote. I'm asking. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Jože Tanko, I think that's quite enough. I ask who is in favour of stopping the debate today until the government's opinion is reached. We're not concluding. Okay, one more time. I'm not going to make that decision again. Who's in favour of breaking the agenda, please let us vote. Ten minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u164	Colleagues and colleagues, allow us to continue the meeting at the voting point. I give the vote to end the agenda or the meeting until the Government gives its opinion on the problem that Mr Tanko has set out. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. Okay, thank you very much. I am re-voting the adjournment of today's session. Please vote. We'll resume the meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m.
