ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer, Mrs Urška Ban, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Simon Zajc, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Franz Jurša, Mr Peter Wilfan and Mr Andrej Chuš. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 15 January 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recommended to the government of Slovenia to prevent further negative consequences of the migration crisis. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say my best to all of you. The European Union's top representatives now recognise that the existence of the European Union is at risk. The existence of Slovenia is also at risk. A year ago, these words would have seemed incredible, but the migrant crisis that broke out last fall and still persists has changed things to such an extent that questions that no one would have believed were open a year ago. The worst news ever came to Slovenia in those days. Shengen, as we knew him, is gone. Austria has virtually abolished Schengen against Slovenia, abolished it by decrees as a temporary measure, but you know that Churchill said many years ago that in politics the most permanent temporary measures are. How could this have happened? Even in the fall, in the summers and even in the months before that, we warned that it must not happen that all the flow of migrants would eventually cross Slovenia. That, when Hungary began to build the fence at that time, and on the other hand we know that the Adriatic Sea, it can happen that all the migration flows will be squeezed into that small space under the Alps, which we love and which we call Slovenia. That this is an extremely poor opportunity that will have a terrible vendetta for us. Regrettably, there was more or less ridicule, deafness, and nothing was done by the ruling people, on the part of the government. It was relying on others. How is this negotiation and reliance on others possible in such key moments really to be assured, most of all, that once it was clear that the flow would go through Slovenia and the Government came with a statement that we agreed both with Croatia and with all the neighbours that it would go through a maximum of 1,000 500 migrants a day, even one day of course this did not take, not even an hour. That never happened. It was chaos, tents were burning, and then some temporary emergency solutions were going in the direction of speeding up the flow as quickly as they could say, but everything that was going on would sooner or later come back as boomerang and it was coming back. The fact is that what Hungary did first, which sent the army to the border with Slovenia, also set up a fence and then removed it, Austria is now doing, which is the biggest problem for Slovenia. At the same time, Italy is also sending to the border of the military unit, causing Slovenia to be withdrawn, that Slovenia is somehow excluded from the Schengen area, at least in the form we have known so far. People in Slovenia do not even know this, only Lojze Kos from Celovac warned on 15 December that it is no longer possible to free the border crossing, but as we have been accustomed to all these years, that if they get you when they cross the border crossing, a thousand and 500 euros of fines, and another 2,000 and 160 euros of fines if you do not have a valid personal document. But this left no response, it was published in one broadcast on Radio Slovenia and then nothing else happened. We've still witnessed the allegations of how everything is fine, how we are in the Schengen, how everything is as it should be. It's not, ladies and gentlemen, far from it. The wrong government policy has shut us out of the Schengen area. We can call it one way or another, but the Schengen for Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, as we have known him for all the years, no longer exists. And that's a disaster. After that, this government will be known when it goes back to history, only after that. It's sad that that's how it is. People are scared. People are afraid because more than 400,000 illegal migrants have gone through Slovenia. Most, of course, have no valid documents, say anything, those documents they have are largely falsified, and security is an extremely serious issue. Security is such a big problem that I don't know if everyone in Europe actually knows what they've done. Official services, not ours, but, say, Spanish and French, have said six months ago that because of such a large crowd of people to control them, they have no choice but to look after the safety of people. All this because some politicians in Europe have taken the right to forget why the state and the interstate communities actually exist and have opened up borders just to make them look nice, to show how human they are, and to forget that the country is actually a community that is founded to protect its borders, to protect its citizens and citizens, to give them security, to ensure their well-being and to protect all those fundamental values that represent the value of each nation and country as a whole. The Slovenian government also fell on the line. It was an ideal opportunity for this government to build a fence with Hungary or at least start building a fence — a gesture that would be important — and to announce the closure of the border. She didn't do it. On the contrary, when Hungary declared the border closed, we were told how the border was open. And what did they do? In Serbia, migrants were well printed with arrows across Slovenia and the whole flow was directed there, which is the worst option for Slovenia, through Slovenia. The current will turn around, it's already turning around, and it's turning faster than anyone could have imagined. At that time, Slovenia will be in so much trouble. On the one hand, the borders are closing. On the other hand, the flow will turn. Slovenia is small, Slovenia cannot force anyone to accept people who will be in Slovenian territory – and do not judge by our laws – back. Even Germany cannot force home countries, such as Pakistan, where there is no war, from which migrants came to receive their people back. They tried, but they didn't make it. What should Slovenia then do? So no wonder the government is now looking for thousands and thousands of vacant places to accommodate migrants. But this will certainly be an unsustainable situation. Now, of course, the question of what we have already experienced is being asked. At least two of those who blew up in Paris took the Balkan route as a migrant. No one can say there are no terrorists among them. It is even worse that what happened in Cologne, which in some way became a symbol – but in fact it happened in more than a hundred places across Europe and in different countries, not only in Germany – was organized and invoked through networks under the control of secret services. So governments knew that, and the police knew that, and they didn't act, which raises a huge question about what's actually going on. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a new form of terrorism. What exactly is terrorism? But terrorism is not killing in itself, terrorism is something that creates fear, the essence of terror is fear. Fear that affects people's behavior, people's awareness, people's decisions. That's the point of terrorism. That is why what has been happening in these cities – taharrus gamea – is called, as you probably know – where the victim, according to current data, was more than a thousand women, a new form of terrorism. And there was a crowd of people involved, but there were only two or three involved. It's worth thinking about. And over what Slovenia will do. In Slovenia, people are afraid. People are in trouble. They are already in fear because of a poor standard of living, and they are proud of a failed government. We have 300,000 people living under the edge of poverty, and they would need help, not to spend 123 million on migrants in the budget this year by the ruling coalition. But the worst part is, if people are afraid, it affects the economy, the economy, entrepreneurship. Why? If people are afraid, entrepreneurs do not invest or to a much smaller extent than they would otherwise. They do not create new, quality jobs, which are the only permanent source of prosperity. On the other hand, ordinary citizens and citizens do not spend money, money does not spin, economy does not start and a new recession begins. This can already be proved by numbers at the moment. Just two days ago, it was published in the newspaper Finance Scheme, as the amount of money held by individuals in the account has recently increased. Of course, not because you want to pay up, but simply because people don't spend. People are scared. It's a normal reflex to just put it in stock, feed it for what's coming. But this is extremely bad for the economy. If money doesn't circulate, it doesn't drive entrepreneurship, it doesn't drive the economy, and, of course, we are witnessing a new recession. I would like to recall what stories we've heard when this story with migrants began, how this will strengthen the economy of all Europe and similar nonsense. Today, too, Europe is talking about a new recession, although already economically unsuccessful Slovenia under this government is talking about a very severe recession and is forecast at all levels. The numbers that seemed to be turning upward for a moment would turn and have already begun to turn in a completely opposite direction. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. So we have a security problem, we have a problem of a political nature, and it's a question of responsibility that obviously isn't. For none of this would have happened if laws were respected if the rules in force in this country and the EU rules which oblige us as citizens and citizens were respected. If the Schengen rules and all other regulations were consistently implemented equally for all, none of this would have happened. However, to make matters so much worse, let me say what happened on the committee when we proposed conclusions which should be self-evident in a normal country, which in particular should be the subject of a general consensus in Slovenia, if we respected the principles of the rule of law on the basis of which, by swearing to respect for the law, to the rule of law, this power was chosen. Have you all forgotten that? What did we suggest? To recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, as soon as possible, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia effectively implement the Schengen and all other regulations throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, in such a way as to ensure consistent respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law for all and thus without exception. The laws cannot apply to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, to citizens and citizens of the EU, and they are not applicable to migrants. It's unsustainable, it's unacceptable. Secondly, the National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the same time as the actual implementation of the Schengen and other regulations throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, to begin negotiations with neighbouring countries on the withdrawal of military units from the borders of those countries with the Republic of Slovenia and the re-release of border crossings and the removal of the fence at our northern border, which is in the fundamental development interest of the State of Slovenia. We then proposed that the National Assembly recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to complete the fence on the external Schengen border with Croatia as soon as possible and to ensure that it is adequately protected, and to take all necessary measures to prevent rejected migrants in the target countries from returning to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, the National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately launch an official initiative to receive the Republic of Slovenia's Visegraj Group. This is a group that should set an example for Europe today. There, the principles of mutual protection, mutual assistance, when it comes to economic issues, political issues and security issues, work in an exemplary way, much better than anywhere else in Europe. And they also favor us. You're not gonna believe what happened. The entire coalition voted unitedly against these decisions and therefore voted against respect for the principles of the rule of law, against equality before the Constitution and the law, which is a constitutional category, and voted against working with those where we can only effectively ensure security and, of course, exercise our interests as much as possible. That actually says everything about this coalition. That is why there will be no votes at the end of today, but I must say that this fundamental problem, that the Schengen has fallen and that this government and the coalition of this government are responsible, does not change anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation is 18. 1. 2016 discussed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 32nd emergency meeting. 1. 2016 as a parent working body considered the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent further negative consequences of the migration crisis, which was addressed to the National Assembly 18. 12. In 2015, a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank and later co-proposal by the NSI Group submitted to the hearing. In the supplementary explanation, the MEP shall, on behalf of the applicant, be mag. Branko Grims pointed out that, in his view, the central problem for the situation of the Republic of Slovenia is the inconsistent implementation of regulations and international agreements. He highlighted the current situation at the border with the Republic of Austria, which, with a view to halting the uncontrolled migratory flow, introduced increased control and the possibility of imposing a mandate to pass beyond the marked border crossings. By doing so, the Schengen system is to be abolished and also by Austria, and Slovenia is removed from the Schengen area, which is expected to have serious consequences for the Slovenian economy. As a solution, he proposed the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the Visegrajska Group, which would primarily help to ensure greater security for citizens. On behalf of the co-proposer, a further explanation was given by Member Jernej Vrtovac, who also expressed the lack of action of the Schengen and the problem of excluding the Republic of Slovenia from this system. The proposal for a new Law on International Protection, which is incorporated into the legislative procedure, also made it clear that the criteria for the recognition of international protection are not exacerbated, which is contrary to the trend in the European Union. He also expressed interest in why our country rejected the agreement on joint control of several countries on the Slovenian southern border. The Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State explained that according to the number of asylum seekers, the state of Slovenia could be defined as a transit country. A common solution to the problem of migration has been highlighted as important, but it is too slow at European Union level and it is therefore necessary to actively cooperate with each country. That the Schengen rules are implemented to the extent possible, as they are not adapted to the specific situation that Europe is currently in. That the agreement on joint control of the Slovenian border with the assistance of Austria and Germany provided for joint registration in the Slovenian territory and that Croatia was not included, which is of crucial importance, since it protects the external Schengen border. The signing of such an agreement would pose too many risks to Slovenia in terms of the possibility of rejection of migrants. That Slovenia's participation with the Multi-Grad Group is extremely good in several areas and that they also offer assistance in a concrete situation, that there is no need for formal membership and that the Visegrad Group does not want to. That 15 accommodation and 6 reception centres have been established, allowing for the concentration of migrants in a narrow area, that the resulting environmental degradation has already been eliminated there, to local communities reimbursed the costs. However, as regards the damage suffered by economic operators due to the arrival of refugees, the procedures for the census and its recovery are already found. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written legal opinion of the SPS. It highlighted the first point of the proposal for a recommendation, which follows from the assumption that the Schengen and other provisions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia have not yet been implemented, which was not justified in the explanation. In the debate, members and members of the committee from the opposition SDS and NSI groups pointed out that representatives of the government had claimed that Slovenia would accept no more than 20 refugees six months ago, and today there are thousands of migrants crossing our borders every day. Their arrival has caused environmental degradation and serious economic damage to entrepreneurs around border crossings. Most of the surrounding residents of the accommodation centres have a negative attitude towards them, which was the latest evidence of recent events in Kidrič. That there are very few refugees among refugees from the military hotspots, that the vast majority are mainly of economic migrants. They are concerned about organised group attacks on women in public places during New Year's holidays in Cologne and other cities and some other statements. However, members and members of the coalition committee have stressed that the Government has so far effectively guided the migration process and will also continue to see technical barriers as a temporary solution to the protection of citizens, property and also to the humanitarian purpose of migrant concentration, and some positive experiences have been highlighted in accommodation centres. Finally, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal and rejected them and, in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it is considered that the treatment on the home labour body has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior Mag. Spring GyörkösŽnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Europe is facing the most massive arrival of migrants so far, who are mainly fleeing wars and conflicts. Most do not want to stay in Slovenia, but want to move on to other Member States of the European Union in Germany, Sweden, Austria. Slovenia, as a transit country, is facing a migratory wave that is further strengthened as a result of an open-door policy led by some target countries for humanitarian reasons. In fact, this is a mix of migratory flows, because on the way to Europe, people who run from war and want to save their lives and then in Europe ask for international protection, as well as people who leave their homes in a desire for a better life, thus fleeing poverty, hunger and the like, so-called economic migrants. The problem is broader than Slovenia and larger than Europe. At the same time, the migration flows do not change, and the target countries report that their capacity is saturated. In all Member States of the European Union, there were around 1.5 million asylum seekers in 2015, mostly in Germany, Austria and Sweden. This has, of course, triggered extreme reactions in these countries, which have begun to restrictively change their asylum legislation, to strengthen control of the EU's internal borders and to put various technical obstacles at the border to curb or redirect migration flows. This also has a major impact on Slovenia and the countries south of it, which lie on the Balkan path. The situation is changing from day to day and Slovenia is closely following them, responding to them, constantly in bilateral contact with target countries of migrants, while actively proposing and supporting solutions to the migration crisis, as it is aware that common solutions at European Union level are too slow and often ineffective. Given the massive arrival in the territory of the Member States, the implementation of the existing provisions in practice is difficult to implement, and therefore a uniform approach at European Union or migrant level is necessary. Since October 2015, more than 400,000 people have passed Slovenia. 69 applications for international protection were considered, five of which were favoured and recognised refugee status and the rest were dismissed, or proceedings were suspended for various reasons. We all know that at the beginning of the second migration wave, Slovenia was faced with scattered border crossings, especially in south-eastern Slovenia, because of the willful conduct of our southern neighbour, who, despite our request for agreement and guidance of migratory flows, scattered refugees along the entire border. In order to increase control at the Schengen border, to fulfil the essence of Schengen, thus preventing illegal migration, preventing the dispersed crossing of the state border and directing migrants to entry points, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided, following thorough reflection and numerous discussions, including in the National Security Council and the National Security Council, to go beyond the measures provided for by law. The government is aware of all the national security risks that can result from the massively uncontrolled crossings of people across the state border. One such measure is certainly the establishment of temporary technical means at the border. These are based on an assessment of the risks to migratory flows, namely only on certain identified exposed sections of the border where an increased pressure of the migration wave can be expected on the basis of an assessment, and of course it tries to interfere as little as possible with the right of landowners and owners or to affect the local environment. So far, about 150 km of temporary technical barriers have been placed. I will personally be most pleased when the conditions for removing these obstacles are restored. We must be aware that the situation is difficult. Each measure has consequences and technical resources have, of course, triggered the most pressing public controversy. Slovenia has been responding to the crisis in a sober, proportionate and credible manner. On the other hand, the government deals with local communities, informs the mayors in order to mitigate the negative effects, also deal with the issue of animal crossing and, in cooperation with the Hunting Union of Slovenia, we place chemically dissuasive resources, additional protection fences for the protection of game, dissuasive noise strips and transitional cities. However, the establishment of technical barriers is only one of the measures which cannot in itself bring a solution. To respond effectively to the current situation is due to a number of different measures. In the background of all this, there is a very intense political effort to achieve the cooperation of all countries, both targeted and all those on the so-called Balkan path. We're stuck in a stunt chain. Countries north of us are giving increasing signals to limit the reception of migrants, and countries south of us are not cooperating as they would like. Nevertheless, we must be aware that Slovenia has also achieved some key breakthroughs with strong political efforts in this area. It launched an initiative to call the EU-Western Balkans mini summit and, as a first step, to stop the migration flow. Thus, it triggered a chain reaction downwards so that some countries followed our example. It is particularly important to highlight Macedonia's efforts, with the help of Slovenian police officers at the border with Greece. Just yesterday, the Slovenian delegation, or the Ministry of the Interior, also attended a meeting of the countries of Visegraje Four, Macedonia and Serbia, Croatia once again refused to participate, at which a concrete agreement was reached on participation in the working group, which will visit Macedonia and record their needs, all in accordance with this letter sent by the President of the Government to the Member States of the European Union and which we have also informed the public. The additional problem in the whole story is Greece. We all agree that the best solution is to implement decisive measures at the beginning of this flow, in Macedonia and Greece. Greece is supported by EU Frontex, significant financial aid hotspots and various forms of solidarity, such as the relocation and suspension of Dublin transfers, and it is therefore reasonable to expect it to implement its commitments, adequately protect the external border and reduce migration flows. Slovenia is also making strong political efforts to stop migration efforts in this part, which would also make the situation significantly easier for Slovenia and the other countries on the Western Balkan route. I would like to point out that Slovenia makes sense to implement the Schengen rules in a way that is possible in a given situation. We work in the same way as the other Member States of the European Union north of us. The expert circles acknowledge that we have achieved enormously in the given situation, that we are still successful in protecting the external Schengen border, and as such the Schengen rules are not adapted to emergency situations, i.e. the massive arrival of migrants, and in this case even organised mass arrivals or transports to our border. The specificity of this migration flow is also that migrants have a clearly selected objective. The story is very complex and there is no measure that can in itself regulate it. Unfortunately, even in Brussels, we have not learned how to implement the Schengen legislation consistently when they bring 7,000 or more people to the border in an organised manner, followed by a new group within a few hours. Children, pregnant women, vulnerable groups are also present in this group. In Brussels they also do not know the answer to how without a police force to stop a few thousand heads of the crowd who are brought to us, who do not want to stay with us, who cannot be refused and who wants to move on as soon as possible. It is therefore crucial that such derogations from the consistent implementation of the Schengen rules are implemented consistently in agreement with Austria and Germany, and, of course, the participation of Croatia and, as a consequence, of other countries before it is also necessary. The aim of all these arrangements so far is that there are no foreigners in the collection centres in Slovenia, in fact, because they have all been committed to Austrian security authorities and have therefore gone to the target countries. In doing so, it should be stressed that Slovenia strictly implements the legislation and arrangements of the European Union and, as the first country in the European Union, records and treats foreigners who have entered our territory. As for the fears of ending the Schengen and closing the borders. On the Austrian side, I would like to point out that the Schengen is still in operation, and both Austria and Slovenia are taking advantage of the opportunities afforded them by the Schengen rules, in particular the Schengen Borders Act. This, of course, allows the use of different technical means for borders and also allows the reintroduction of internal border controls. As regards all measures, the European Commission has already identified itself and will also be in the future. The decisions of Italy and Austria to send military units to the immediate vicinity of the border are an autonomous decision of individual countries, as well as Slovenia has a basis in national legislation or in the Defence Act. Any interference would involve interference with the autonomous right of an individual country. Slovenia has been regularly working with the V4+ Visegraj Group, which includes Croatia and Slovenia in addition to the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Poland. Cooperation in the areas under the competence of the Ministry of the Interior with these countries takes place at bilateral level and within the framework of the Salzburg Forum, and this cooperation is extremely good. The countries of the Visegra Group show great coherence and interoperability in relation to the migration crisis and growing security threats, both between themselves and the countries most affected by migration flows. Thus, the first responded to my request for assistance on the situation in Slovenia, immediately provided humanitarian assistance and also sent the largest number of police officers who have helped Slovenian police in managing migration flows over the past two months. Slovenia will continue its efforts to strengthen and deepen relations with V4 countries, including by strengthening relations with individual V4 countries on a bilateral basis. The so-called return of migrants is a subject that is not clearly understood in the public, and there are unjustified fears about it that Slovenia will have to accept more migrants who, after personal consideration, will reject asylum applications in Austria, Switzerland or Germany. We are not talking about denying migrants entry into Austria. In the case of rejection, there are individual cases where the security authorities there find, on the basis of their identification process, that it does not match what was found in Slovenia. In this case, they are therefore denied entry to Austria, but all cases have so far been resolved for the benefit of Slovenia. With regard to the last proposals of Austria, we are at several levels all the time in contact with their authorities, and this is also an intensive debate in Austria. We have assurances that we will be informed in time and will also decide on further action on the basis of these notifications and further operational arrangements. It should also be pointed out that the return of migrants to migrants registered in Slovenia and applied for or not granted asylum and voluntarily continued their journey to northern countries. This is the implementation of the Dublin Regulation. Such migrants in the countries they discover are attempting to return to the first country of entry into the EU, or the first country in which they have applied for protection. This is a very small number of migrants who would come back to Slovenia if Slovenia agreed to do so. At the moment, it is also crucial that Slovenia is in one of the most challenging periods since its independence, so one of the preconditions for a more successful response to migration problems is internal cohesion and constructive action in the political area, because Slovenia has not caused the migration crisis and cannot solve it itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u8	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why are you so worried about this? Because we are always looking at what has already happened, but we are not hearing what will happen, what measures will be taken, what will we do to calm people down, what will be the right flow of information, so that we do not cause intolerance among people, that people know exactly what is waiting for the media to play their part, and that both coalition and opposition Members will find out what is going on in the country, not that everything is hidden under some secret. We know that the key to today's debates is prevention – what we will do is prevent it. We're getting ahead of ourselves. We always react back. Our actions are reactive when something happens. We are now waiting for what the Austrians will do, so that we can simply copy the same and move to the border with Croatia. Whether this will work, I don't know, because the Austrians have their own country and have the state of Slovenia on their border, but we have another country on our border, and we can't throw the blame back on this country if anything goes wrong. We need to prepare, but we have not yet learned what these measures will be and how they will be implemented. Media must play a key role in this. Analysis in Europe has now shown that more than 35% of the media use self-censorship in this topic, and good work also means that the state does not provide enough information to the media, but we do not have the real investigative journalism. As we have seen in the Cologne cases, this causes impatience and damage. The more we report and provide the right data, the less damage, the more people are prepared, the less critical the economy will be and the more current flows will be. As far as borders are concerned and whether the Schengen works or does not work, it is crucial to imagine how you are now traveling to the countries you have travelled to before. If we have to wait at the border with Austria and then once again at the border with Germany, then the Schengen does not work. We're waiting. The others can move on. Of course, the problem will not escalate for as long as there is no accumulation of a column of trucks that will cause even greater economic damage, and only then will European countries take action. What they have done so far has been to try to resolve the matter through administrative and bureaucratic measures. We see that this is a hybrid threat, not only in the security field, but in the economic, cultural, social and other areas, so we need a merger of all actions to address these challenges, which is not happening. We do not present challenges and answers to what will happen to people who have remained in a given territory and who will certainly remain in our territory. What are these people going to do? Who's gonna deal with them? Where do we get extra volunteers? We are not building consensus right now, because we are missing at least three consensus – a consensus of policy, coalition and opposition, on certain issues. We don't get information, the government doesn't provide information, we don't have consensus on the government's recommendations. Because we have elected this government and put the country in charge, so I think it would be right to finally reach some consensus both in the coalition and in the opposition and start to run the country. The second consensus is the consensus between the local level and the government. We see that there are constant meetings between the mayors and the government, but the mayors also point out that they do not have the right information about what will happen to them, and they point to unpaid accounts. While we have not yet cleared up who bought the wire, for how much, in what way, and by whom? The third consensus is a consensus at the level of external partners. A consensus with the northern and southern neighbours. There are no such consensus, these consensuss are difficult to reach, we are not clear on certain decisions, for example, why we insist on a relationship with Germany and Austria for a while, and then we withdraw from this link. What about the Balkan countries? How ready are we to cooperate? Why are we putting our problem on the Macedonian-Greek border? Of course it's the easiest. My problem, based on the principle of hot skating, is passed on to someone else. We are not answering the key issue of human trafficking. The Balkan route, as well as in the case of Spain and Italy, which is not an EU problem, is under way with trafficking in human beings. Before the migration crisis escalated, we had exactly the same pattern, but to a lesser extent no one was involved. As soon as we close the borders, we need to know that all migrants will become victims of human trafficking. That's not what we're dealing with. How are we going to solve this problem? Those who reach the territory of Slovenia will also be victims of human traffickers, victims of organised crime will become part of the informal economy. What are they gonna do? Will they stay in our country because they will soon find that Slovenia is a more beautiful, more democratic country than Germany? How will they integrate into our system? In the EU, analyses have shown that those who have come have not integrated into the system and that European countries have a problem with a second generation of these migrants who are involved in a number of deviant practices, as well as victims of terrorism. It is said that we do not have any information on how we create answers, where the Ministry of Labour is, where the Ministry of Education is, because this is a merger of joint actions. Looking ahead, what has happened in Europe so far, what have we learned from the Cologne case and from other places? What was the role of the media here? Why didn't the media report? Why didn't the Ministry report the events? This caused more damage. What's going on in Italy and Spain? Where do these people go? So we also expect those who will find their way into our territory to find their own way through merchants into the promised land. What must we do in the future? I have not found these answers so far, so I expect these answers to be clarified, that the information begins to flow, that consensus on the local level begins to be reached, that it will not happen as in Kidric, that we will give people the right information so that intolerance will not grow. I am interested in what and what solutions await us in the future, for the solutions so far are more similar to the guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the sixth time, we're meeting here on the same subject. Sixthly, we are discussing the same measures in order to jointly support the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Occasionally, I get the feeling that the applicants, who are already five times the same, would want the refugee and migrant crisis, which has not been our fault, to hit Europe, Slovenia as much as possible. That's what I'm worried about. I'm worried because some of you obviously don't realize that the situation is serious, and to the extent that we should step together despite the worldview differences, because if I can borrow the words of the late Dr. Jožet Pučnik, it's Slovenia. For our country, which celebrates its 25th anniversary this year. It's a country we fought in both world wars and our war for Slovenia. In the course of these discussions, it seems to me that the applicants are not concerned with our country, not about its sovereignty, they are talking about populism and cheap political points. This is worrying and dangerous. The refugee and migrant crisis did not occur because of Slovenia. Slovenia has been suppressed by Slovenia, mainly because of its geographical position and mainly because Slovenia is a member of the Schengen area on the Balkan path. Slovenia has such a great responsibility. In this responsibility, it appears, she remains alone. That is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is looking for solutions, but as you can see, there are no common solutions to the European Union. But they're not there for a number of reasons. The first is that the European Union was not prepared for such a wave of refugee and migrant arrivals to its territory, so it did not react properly at first. As used for the European Union at times, despite the fact that we have warned the members of the Brussels institution that it is necessary to do something, it has delayed the problem for a long time, deliberately overlooked it, with the logic that it will deal with itself. And that's where she was wrong. But when she realized that, she had been missing for too many months. Another reason why the European Union cannot find common solutions is the lack of political will and the absence of a common interest. Some members have so long supported the search for a common solution with a fig in their pocket. This is not European behaviour, and unfortunately the European Union has not done anything in all this time to protect its external borders. The third reason I would like to point out is that the European Union could not find a common solution because of its historical experience of blackmail. While we have pointed out that it is essential to protect the external border of the European Union – and to stress that this border does not start in Slovenia – other countries have watched calmly how nothing changes in the field. The European Union has not been able to convince its members that the situation needs to be regulated and that it is long-term unsustainable. Slovenia has always warned in Brussels that the refugee and migrant flows will not dry themselves. Our President of the Government stressed that he threatened the European Union if he did not find a common solution, fragmentation and perhaps even decay. Today, many other statesmen are also repeating this. But it didn't happen and nothing happens. The fourth reason why the European Union is not capable of responding to the crisis is that we have not yet overcome the economic crisis on the European continent. The economic crisis, which has seriously affected Europe, has left many wounds. That's when the states found out that you had to help yourself. That the European Union does not have leverage to help quickly, and above all that Brussels cannot solve the problems that we have accumulated at home. And the wave of dominos began when instead of common integrated solutions, we looked for partial ones that had only affected a certain country. Thus, the wave of opening, which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall, changed and replaced by a wave of closing and seeking its own benefits, even at the expense of others. Today, eight years after the outbreak of the crisis, the European Union is still vulnerable and looking for answers, but it is looking for them in the wrong context. Closing and re-establishing borders between European Union countries is not an answer. The answer to the common problems, which the refugee and migrant crisis is undoubtedly, is a joint action, and this is an action at the external border of the European Union, and once again let me stress that this is not the Slovenian border with Croatia. If the European Union does not hurry, it points in the direction that countries will start setting their own borders. But when the iron curtains fall again, they'll be hard to lift. We quickly forgot that it took 45 years to lift the iron curtain. And since I don't want to be surrounded again by an iron curtain for myself and my children, we need to look for common solutions. And the Slovenian Government and the National Assembly are doing this. Finally, the European Union was founded on four freedoms – the free movement of people, goods, services and capital, as well as knowledge today. If one of these falls, the European Union falls as we know it. We may go back to the time of Eurosclerosis in the 1970s, but let's ask ourselves if this is what we want. Is this what we promised our fellow citizens and fellow citizens of the European Union? No, it's not. The European Union has been created to strengthen their prosperity, and with the fall of any of these freedoms, the European Union will fall not only on the welfare test but also on the examination of the relevance of the international communities. Professor Romano Prodi, in the documentary film De President, said that the European Union's labelling was irrelevant to him, but the fact is that in the international community it is precisely because of the non-response to the refugee and migrant crisis that this designation appears to the European Union increasingly, and we must resist it. The EU must not become an irrelevant actor in international relations, but it must become increasingly relevant with common solutions. This is what I want, but I am afraid that this will not be possible with the partial policies of the Member States. But let's go back to the material that you proposed for the convening of this extraordinary session. The government has responded to your proposals and this is bold and has also explained what measures it has taken and which measures it is taking. As it is said, Slovenia has been affected by this crisis, but not by its fault, but regardless, we must do everything we can to strengthen and maintain all activities so that Slovenia remains an active member of a united Europe. In doing so, it is necessary to be aware of the limitations that Slovenia, as a small country, has. First time. Slovenia cannot agree to become a hot spot, nor can it agree to take on a greater burden than it can take on it. Slovenia must therefore act actively and must reach agreement on the need to regulate the matter at European Union level. Let us not forget that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been doing this all the time, but especially the President of the Government and the competent minister and the Secretary of State, who are in contact with all relevant actors in this area every day. Another time. Slovenia has already set up a fence aimed at directing the flow of migrants. If necessary, Slovenia will continue to 50 more activities, but it cannot do so on its own, because it has neither human resources nor financial resources, so it is necessary to stop the flow of refugees and migrants at their source, not in the middle of the road. Slovenia is in the middle of the road and in the middle of the road it is difficult to do anything big, but nevertheless Slovenia is looking for solutions and is proactive, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Third time. For the fifth time you have proposed extraordinary meetings, you occasionally act as if Slovenia has dominated everything as if it can change geopoliticals, manages world politics, and in particular can decide where it will go and where it does not flow migrants. But the world doesn't revolve around you and neither do we. Lawyers would say that ignorance of the law is damaging, but I would say that ignorance of international relations and the international community is even more damaging and dangerous. Therefore, I propose that, in my deliberations, you are not demagogic, but dialogue. Let us educate ourselves, strengthen knowledge and knowledge, and, above all, find common solutions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes them every day. Instead of calling the Government to account in the National Assembly, let us support it in finding solutions. The valuable search for political points in these times of instability is bad, not for coalition or opposition, for the country. It's about the V4 or the VVF. There have been several missed opportunities since 1994 for Slovenia to work more intensively with V4. I do not want to cite the reasons for this nor do I want to look for the culprits, but this government has intensified dialogue with the countries of the V4, bilaterally and multilaterally. For we are all on the same ship and no one wants this ship to fail, so cooperation is more than necessary. It's not just cooperation, it's intensification of relationships. We are working with the V4 because we want this and because last year we are bound by the adopted foreign policy declaration. The former countries of the Habsburg Cultural Circle are our natural allies and must always be at a high level of cooperation with them. As I know, the government is working more than actively in this area. Remember, he meets with the Hungarian government on Friday at a joint meeting. Let's get it over with. I call on all of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to stop these fruitless meetings and support the Government's efforts to keep us at the heart of the European Union, and to support the Government's efforts to find a common European solution. Without that, things are gonna get a lot harder, and life for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens is gonna get worse. Above all, we will lose everything our grandfathers and fathers have built in the last 70 years. Europe and the European Union must remain. But the prerequisite for this is that countries begin to resolve the refugee and migrant crisis in real terms and not in their own way. I believe that we will still be able to do this, and I believe that the Slovenian government and this national assembly will do their utmost to achieve this in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Vice President. We are, as you know, at the stage of the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. But I have now listened to the verbal attack by the President of the National Assembly on SDS and New Slovenia, and you have done nothing, so I expect you to be deaf as a grave at my performance and that you will do so. The matter is simply the following: not knowing the law does not exclude responsibility, my associate said, but if you do it in good faith to do the right thing, then all is forgiven. Because in good faith, if you're doing the right thing, you can put $45,000 in your pocket and say it's okay. And, of course, in good faith that we are doing the right thing, we are making demands for a meeting of the National Assembly. Not to harm the country of Slovenia, but to help the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which acts irresponsibly – yesterday we witnessed these matters – help. If we want to help the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you are rejecting this aid, so of course you are not voting for sound judgment, we will continue to do so, because we think and we are convinced that we are doing it in good faith, that we are doing it right. But if you're working in the good faith that you're doing the right thing and you think you can wave $45,000 in your pocket, there's nothing wrong with that, is there? We are going to present the position of the Group of Members. Now in the performances of some predecessors, of course, I have detected a completely different vocabulary. Indeed, it was forbidden to discuss certain matters in September. On 1 September, I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. On 23 September, I spoke about this speaker on behalf of the parliamentary group and warned about what was coming to the Republic of Slovenia, but you said that I was spreading fear. But the problem of the migration crisis, which not only threatens the Republic of Slovenia, threatens the European Union, is now definitely recognised. I think it's clear as day. Indeed, Donald Tusk said yesterday that Europe has only two months left to defend the Schengen area. I think he said it right, but plus I think he's got less. European Commission President Juncker said that if the Schengen falls, the euro is also pointless, but if both fall, then we are probably where we were before Schengen and before the European Union. Therefore, of course, the problem we are dealing with is extremely great. Our goal is only one – to help the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The coalition, of course, rejects this aid and that is the problem. It's a big problem. The president of the National Assembly also spoke about this earlier – and I am surprised, professor, doctor, doctor, doctor, international relations – that Slovenia is not the first on this line of migrants to come to the European Union to be Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true. It is true that Greece is indeed the first country of Schengen, but illegal migrants from this country leave and once again cross the Schengen border, which is Slovenian. From this point of view, it is exclusively the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition that 430 thousand people entered Europe illegally. Stop selling registration songs, that's not it. That's not a legal concept. For people, I must make it very clear that if someone does not come to the Schengen border, he can enter if he has the existing documents of one of the EU Member States. Secondly, he may enter if, of course, he has a visa if he is a third-country national. And there's only one other option: asylum at the border. Everything else is forbidden to enter the Schengen area. Therefore, the 430 thousand people you have released into the EU are the private business of Cerar d.o.o. transport. What else? Nothing else to be clear about. Crying about how things can't be prevented doesn't help. In the spring, including the Prime Minister, you spat on Orban. If we did what he did then the European Union and Slovenia would not have this problem today. That is why it is solely responsible for these 430 thousand – if I forget Greece, where we know what time it is, on this road we have one EU member, that is Croatia, which is not a member of Schengen – Republic of Slovenia. You, ladies and gentlemen from here on out, the President of the Government and the Government. Who else? What we do is we just want to help and warn you about it. Of course it's a matter of arrogance and nothing else. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and I spoke about this on September 1st on one of the committees - were to prepare for the migration wave and if at least radio or television reports were to listen to what was happening in Hungary, then we could predict date 17. Ten. 2015, when more than tens of thousands of migrants or thousands of migrants arrive at our southern border. And you said the fence shouldn't be talked about because it's fascist because it's not what it is. What are you doing today, ladies and gentlemen? Today you're putting up ring wires, not fences. Of course, at the time, you condemned everything else, you condemned the opposition, you condemned Hungary, and I don't know what it was, but the real facts came. Then, instead of the fence, there was a technical barrier that we see there today at the southern border. Instead of building a fence like Hungary built, and protecting it with military, police, and other things, especially by foreign forces, you started putting up those unfortunate wire rings that kill wildlings. And that's all they do. If anything serious came through there with the usual pliers, you cut it anyway and you go over. So you're spending money or you're giving money to those friends of yours from that company, ladies and gentlemen. If we had a serious purpose, we'd set up a real fence, just like it belongs, and we'd protect it. But you need 24,000 people to do that. If you want to put on every 100 meters one person — a policeman, a soldier or anything — and if you count three shifts and a hospital, you will calculate 24 thousand people, which is not possible, of course, because we don’t have that many. We could have calculated this earlier, and we could have seen this earlier and asked for help abroad. That's how you spent the month of September and the whole month of October talking nonsense, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of talking right about illegal migrants, you started talking about what? [[…]] Fugitives. On 23 September, the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Government did not separate the expression of the fugitive from the illegal migrant. The fugitive is probably nothing more than a person who escapes from the country where the problem arises and reaches the first safe state, and then it's over, and then he's not a fugitive, and then he's a Fertik. Still, after so many months, the media is talking about refugees. No, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about illegal migrants. Let's move on. It is true that the irresponsible conduct of Germany must be taken into account; this is true; there is nothing to be added here. The government should therefore be aware of all the consequences and should act in time, not in the way it acted. Today we are already in the stage of knowing that the Austrians are closing the border, that the Germans are closing, that the Austrians are setting up a fence, sending an army to the border, that is, Italy is preparing, or at least predicting. And we're still talking about respect for Schengen. Previously on Secretary of State... Are you a serious minister? You didn't, did you? – talked about respect for Schengen in the given circumstances? No, you don't. You don't respect Scheng. You don't respect me. The fact that Juncker tells you you're okay, even though he's part of our political option, take a little bit of a joke, because the man in this regard doesn't make the statements you'd expect him to make. So instead of preparing in time, of course, we missed out on a variety of other things that we should do. One more thing about numbers. The country of Slovenia has, of course, allowed illegal, ladies and gentlemen, illegally, about 430 thousand people to go to Europe so far. Less than 200 have applied for international protection or asylum. Less than 200. And half of these went forward. Of course, it is expected that they will come back or return them because they can also be returned after all international regulations. The question is how Slovenia will act in any attempt by Germany or Austria to return to the Republic of Slovenia. If we respected the Dublin Regulation, of course this could happen. It has to be admitted. But I hope that at least if something like this happened, they'd raise their voices and say, "No!" After all, Germany is the one that requested the suspension of the Dublin Regulation. The creation of Schengen. I think I've been talking about this pay phone for two months now about the fact that the Schengen will never officially fall. On paper. On paper. Today, 12 European Union countries are closing their borders and protecting them. 12 European countries, if we generalise a little bit, do the same as in 1980 at the border with Austria, at the border with Germany and elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the Schengen is falling. And you keep saying we have it. We have Schengen on paper. But what's questionable, of course, is what's going on at the border with Austria. Apparently, a few secret intelligence services know this for sure, and some of the public states of Benelux with France, Germany and Austria clearly see a solution to the problem at the border between Austria and Slovenia. After all, it is the easiest, fastest and most effective for them. If you count down Caravanka you still have, I don't know how many kilometers the border is, but from Koroška to Lendava, which they're protecting and the European problem is solved. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that what is now going on with the border of Sweden, Denmark, including Austria, Germany at the moment when Austria will actually close the border, is going to fall away because these countries will one day say that they no longer have a problem with illegal migrants, because Austria is protecting the matter well and that is why they can reintroduce the good old Schengen. But we'll stay out. And if we stay outside, of course, that's a big problem. All this has to be said is that I don't know now whether we have clowns for the Prime Minister or something. What happened? He's talking about us not agreeing, not agreeing. Who's gonna ask you? If Austria started protecting the border and setting the wire, it will not ask Slovenia. The Prime Minister is talking nonsense. I don't know if it's April 1st. Or he doesn't know what he's saying. We also saw this in our conversation with that comedian down there in Croatia. Of course, there is also one big issue around legislation. All the countries on this line from the North Sea to Greece have changed asylum legislation. All countries! We've written a law that we wanted to tighten the terms with, and you've said it in Russian. Yes, you voted no. Now you're the only country, the only government and the only coalition on this line that hasn't changed asylum legislation. The Germans give three meals and a bed, the Danes demand and "cassify" asylum seekers, especially those who have money, money to stay with them, they have to pay for it themselves. What's going on in Slovenia's greatness? We give them money. Of course we do. Otherwise, the amount for the asylum seeker is minimal, €18 per month, but we pay them. The Danes are cashing out of them. Everyone else on the line to us is "cashing" for train transport. Of course, we pay them generously on our own. And we could list it. Denmark, if you didn't know, already requires payment from them, from those who have the money. And we pay them. Slovenian railways already have 10 million, they said. Ten thousand euros per asylum seeker, said the finance minister. It's going to take a little while to see what's covered up here, not to witness some nonsense, a friend on the left, online, but good. The situation is relatively clear – €833 per asylum seeker. For the ironworks, which worked for 40 years at the beach, 400 euros. Shame on you! Shame on you that you haven't changed the law! It is irresponsible that you have not changed the legislation. Of course, the matter is also clear below. He gave me some hope of visiting the Prime Minister of the Government of Merkel in Germany, where it was said that Austria and Germany would now help protect the southern border. I said, "Finally! The blind chicken finds it, and the Prime Minister finds it. Yesterday, I hear the minister say we won't allow it. Here I am not clear, I expect the Minister to tell her the reasons why this was done, because if the Austrians and the Germans offered the police force to implement the Schengen as implemented, then you did the anti-State act number one. But if there's anything else in the back, if there's anything else they've been offering, I'd like some more clear and loud assurances from the minister as to what's going on. Let me finish. I regret that the coalition does not recognize our goals and purposes and that even the President of the National Assembly sees political points here. Stop with the political points! Secure the border! This is all we want, because otherwise Slovenia can become a hot spot or whatever you call it. If you protect the border, of course it won't. That's what we're asking, and that's what we want, and we don't want anything else. It's not about getting points. It's about getting political points somewhere else, about electoral fraud, where you talk about ethics, integrity, expertise, and then you put 45 "guys" in your pocket, and you're just a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing again in the National Assembly the solution to the migration problem. As I have said several times on behalf of the Desus Group, Members and Members of the Desus Group strongly reject any political account at the expense of the situation in which Slovenia is located and oppose such requests for extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. However, we are at a time when we should all step together and work together to find the best solutions. At this request, too, the initiators repeat that they do not want to share such demands and frighten already so frightened people that they want to cooperate with the coalition in particular, but this time at the meeting of the mother's working body, it has also been seen that this is not the case. Among other things, the applicants reiterated that social transfers, pensions and so on would also be reduced as a result of assistance to refugees. Here I must stress that concern for the safe age of citizens is still a fundamental responsibility of the state, which means that the state must and will take care of its citizens in the first place, and that is why fear is all too much. Suggestions should be asked how much taxpayers are costing unnecessary referendums, which informal instigators, hand in hand, are your customers. In the Desus Group, we are well aware of the difficulties Slovenia can face if there is not a coherent and uniform policy of the European Union in solving the refugee or migrant problem. This is indeed a large number of people who have come to the area with 500 million inhabitants, but we are confident that despite the high number of people who are facing a manageable challenge that can be tackled by appropriate policies. We are convinced that Europe must respond primarily to the crisis in a human, dignified and responsible manner. It must recognise that the world is facing several complex humanitarian crises at the same time, both in Syria, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Afghanistan and Nigeria. The fact is that not everyone is refugees, that these people are not registered, but that almost everyone needs some form of assistance. Many of them need international protection, some need access to the labour market, some want to join relatives who are already in Europe, and among migrants are children and unaccompanied minors. It is common for all to flee from conflict and poverty. Slovenia has repeatedly pointed out that more attention must be paid to preventing migration through in-depth cooperation with countries of origin. Above all, it is crucial that the European Union and its members step up the fight against terrorism and step up their efforts to address and prevent crises, which are key drivers of refugee and migration flows. And there's something else about threats, about the drop in the Schengen area. There has been a lot of talk about this in the introductory presentations of the initiators of this meeting. It is true that the Schengen regime is facing major challenges as a result of the migration crisis and that it has become clear that the current regime has not been prepared to face such major migratory pressures. But here we must be clear that Slovenia, in its communication with the Member States and the institutions of the European Union, always makes it clear that the debate on the future of Schengen is necessary, and we do not accept the threat of its existence. We also categorically reject the idea of the so-called mini-schenga, as this would significantly affect the right to free movement of persons. Such measures should only be temporary and proportionate. Thus, Slovenia remains an advocate of close integration with the European Union and is actively committed to preserving the benefits it brings to member states in the European Union, and a common European approach to addressing challenges such as the migration crisis is needed. In recent days, we have been informed of the behaviour of Austrian border authorities, which are the result of changing policies towards migrants in Germany, and therefore intensive discussions are taking place between Germany, Austria and Slovenia, of course. All three countries are working to ensure that the Republic of Croatia also adheres to the arrangements for the reception and treatment of migrants, thereby significantly slowing down and monitoring migration flows more effectively. Let me finish. As it has been shown, Slovenia is the first country in the European Union to record foreigners and issue detention permits as a result of the return process, and therefore there is no spontaneous entry into the Republic of Slovenia and, most importantly, there is no dispersion of refugees and migrants in the territory of Slovenia. At this point, I would not lose words on the implementation of legislation in the case of Greece and Croatia, which are on the way to migrants in front of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responds adequately to current migration flows and therefore we have not supported the recommendations of the SDS and NSI on the home labour body. Of course, all further steps depend mainly on cooperation with the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately does not accept common agreements on managing the migration crisis, and cooperation with Austria and Germany as the target country for many migrants. As the Minister of the Interior has already pointed out, if unilateral decisions are to be made by Austria and Germany, Slovenia will also have to respond and act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u15	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Migration is a mixture of economic, political and social factors that include both factors in the country from which the migrant comes, which forces him to leave, as well as factors in the country that attracts him to travel and destination. If we put this thesis within the historical framework, we can agree quickly and without any major objections that Europe has always been invited to immigration because of economic well-being and political stability, but at the same time either because of the need for growth or because of the ageing population, the immigration labour force has largely been badly needed. However, depending on its own needs, the attitude towards migration has often changed in Europe and the related attitude towards arrivals. Thus, one of the most direct effects of the severe economic crisis, which has choked Europe for the past decade, is the situation when the need for immigration has been reduced in Europe, while the anti-migration, nationalist and, in many cases, racist discourse in the political area has deteriorated. However, the acute global economic situation, logically and clearly, does not address the needs of the old continent, has further increased migration pressures from the south, where record unemployment has driven many to the north, yet still making a promise of a decent life and a promise that it is possible to survive from their own work. If we add to this the many crisis hotspots that Europe and its allies have created in the name of security protection, economic and other interests, then the introduction to today's debate should be sincere about at least the fact that the migration wave has not only created a Syrian tragedy, but we must understand the reason for migration as well as the responses to it in the broader, perhaps even a century-long context of global circumstances, actions and reactions, if we are to take a strict view of Newton. If we are aware of this, then we will also understand that the situation that we are facing, not just us, but more continents together, cannot be solved by handball moves, but by seeking a new social agreement for the development of a wider region together and by insisting on the values of Europe on which the ashes were built after the horrors of II. World War II. The memory of this must remain alive and the memory of these values can bring about a new agreement for the region. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore understand the initiative of the candidates of the meeting of the National Assembly as an expression of the need to discuss the issues raised by the response to the migration challenge, but it is essential that we do this with respect, dignity and not deepen the differences between the different thinkers on the wings of xenophobia and intolerance. At the same time, we assess the need to substantially amend and extend the framework of the debate, which, through the recommendations of the Government, is the vocation of today's meeting. Only non-critical and 'church-Bralish' implementation of the Schengen will not solve the crisis we are facing in any way. Such action can only bring about a diversion of migratory flows, strengthen the humanitarian crisis, affect the most vulnerable groups, and in Europe strengthen the doctrine of fear, borders between nations and cultures, and ultimately degrade the human dignity that we have committed to defend with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, regardless of the cost of its defence. If anyone or something, the Government is obliged to use reason, common sense and measures taken to ensure the safety of all its citizens and citizens, as well as migrants and migrants, when implementing Schengen. The government does so under these circumstances. The measures are coordinated continuously and without interruption with neighbouring countries and thus prevent the isolation of Slovenia and the possibility of being left alone when responding to migration flows. It cooperates intensively with the Visegraj Group, launches new initiatives for cooperation in the Alpine area and proactively establishes infrastructure for the provision of transitional migrants as well as those who might choose to apply for international protection in Slovenia. Finally, after the end of Croatia's pre-election turbulence, it also establishes proper cooperation with the security authorities of both countries, which have been at a low level for such and other political reasons in the last period. In other words, through its work within a meaningful and reasonable framework, the Government is already taking into account the recommendations made by the proposer, only that it does not, through its discourse, offer a sense of emergency and a sense of fear, thereby preserving the image of Slovenia as an advanced, humane and open society, which does not stifle the stubbornness of the challenges, but solves them together with others. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the main problem is not that the Schengen is not inextricably closed, but that there is a fear and the thesis that there is only a radical solution in one or a radical way that Europe can only be completely closed or completely open. Social Democrats do not want to agree to this kind of discourse, because we are aware that the problem must be solved at source and we must have all decision makers in mind both the future of Slovenia and the future of Europe, both those who live here today and those who will certainly come to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Again, before considering the recommendations of the SDS, which we have dealt with on several occasions in such or other forms. From the initial presentation of the applicants, we can conclude that, as in all cases, the scenario will still be the same today. Today, we cannot expect anything but a rerun of Monday's and all previous meetings of the Committee on the Interior and the meetings of the National Assembly on this subject. The purpose of the proposal is clear. Promoting a sense of state of emergency in the country, fostering hatred and inciting the feeling that refugees are endangering citizens and citizens of Slovenia. In short, farce, populism and cheap pear of the Slovenian parliamentary right, which has also moved so beautifully together in this case. In the United Left, we have been opposed to needless intimidation by people under the cover of highlighting the so-called "security aspects". Under this discourse, there is nothing but xenophobia. Where such hateful discourse leads, which is condemned by few in general by the public and persecuted by no one, we can read in many media reports of attacks on refugee centres and refugees throughout Europe daily. In doing so, we must not forget that in Slovenia, Molotovka have already flown to the places where assistance for refugees is being collected, for example in the New Town National House. The impatience also went to the construction site of the Islamic Centre in Ljubljana. In particular, we are concerned that the Government is also contributing to such practices through its missed actions. The latter apologises as a necessity, if there is no alternative and there is no alternative, and thus informs the citizens that it has chosen a political solution. This is not to be overlooked even by an unusual sequence of events. You could say that the SDS is proposing to the government, the government is doing it. When SDS proposes resistance to mandatory quotas, the Government starts to oppose quotas immediately. When the SDS proposes to close the borders and set up the fence, the government starts immediately with the installation of the barbed wire at the border. The SDS and the Government of Mir Cerar are complemented by security risks and the suppression of alternative solutions. However, the wrong decisions and the measures taken are only stepping up. At a time when the Member States of the European Union should respond most decisively and as quickly as possible to the refugee crisis, the Government decided to physically close borders and trigger a wave of political criminalisation of migrants, a wave of racism and the creation of divisions. This action is primarily the responsibility of the Government, which, by its wrong decisions, does a great deal of service to the far right, whether it is unaware or unwilling to be aware. The latter, by referring to the provision of security, is increasingly slobbering and exploiting everyone. For them, the refugee humanitarian crisis is just a range for scaring citizens and citizens. Of course, the government of such a discourse has not publicly condemned or tried to suppress it. Instead, she used it to justify her actions. In the light of security risks, it first negotiated quotas, took care of the day-to-day change of views. The security risks were an excuse to send an army on the ground. Since its objective was not only to provide logistical support by soldiers, it gave them police powers by amending the Defence Act. Under the cover of security risk, a measure which she has always claimed to be unnecessary – untransparent and without adequate legal basis, soldiers, police and external contractors have begun to install a barbed wire at the border with Croatia. The purpose of the wire is primarily to be practical and useful. With him, the refugees were to be diverted to border crossings, with the question of who exactly and where the refugees were to be directed, but the government was not involved. It is clear that the construction of the wire is disproportionate and harmful to a measure for which there is no legal basis. Above all, the government hides information related to the wire under the cover. From the beginning, there are speculations as to where the next wire will be placed, who will place it, where and for how much money the state has bought, how much money will go into private pockets and so on. What is most worrying, however, is that the Government of the peoples in the border areas has neither informed them about the construction of the wire nor asked them for an opinion or any consensus, as is usually the case in the democratic countries in which we like to follow suit. The government did not offer any answers to the questions, nor did it offer answers at Monday's board meeting. Calls from residents and residents of the border area, civil movements and animal protectors have been re-examined. Their growing anger is so completely justified. We have also not heard any valid arguments to justify our procedures. Therefore, we have called on the Government to immediately suspend all procedures concerning the installation of the barbed wire at the border with Croatia and begin its removal. However, the government’s response was known – empty, unfounded arguments and insistence on security aspects for which it has not yet explained exactly what they should be. We hope that these security aspects are not based on the lies that the right hand is wasting, which we will be listening to again after Monday's committee meeting today. About the surgeons who cut their necks; about the parents who kill their daughters in Germany because they don't date Muslims; about the fact that refugees don't answer for crimes and empty our shops; about the Christians who were thrown off boats; about the immoral Muslims, who can't be integrated at all and so on, I won't mention. The lie to the right of this hall is not enough, all together you will be served as a general fact, as events that take place in mass and to which you need to respond totalitarianly, by closing the border and by establishing village guards as patriotic paramilitary. On the basis of this, we can conclude that today’s debate will only show one thing — at a time when capitalism is rotting, we can truly be afraid. And how we should be scared. And by no means are the fugitives. Fear can be a growing fascism, racism and the widespread promotion of hatred, which also comes from a number of members of the right-wing parties. We may be particularly afraid of this, colleagues and colleagues, because the government has not yet identified itself, nor has this dangerous discourse, which smells strongly of fascism, been publicly condemned. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u19	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The moment of truth has come – Northern and Central Europe has become full and they are no longer able to accept an unlimited number of migrants. But from the south, there is no pressure, conflicts in the Middle East and Africa are not regulated, they are not reduced, even more complicated, and they are deepening. Is Slovenia ready for all these things? What's today's situation? Austria is obviously preparing, politically and technically, to restrict migrants' access to their country. On the other hand, Croatia is preparing all technical solutions to bring as many migrants as possible to Slovenia after the shortest, fastest and most accessible locations. The operation of these countries is, of course, understandable. The Austrians have caravans and can relatively easily protect their border with a few kilometres of fence. On the other hand, Croats have a big problem. Even if they build a fence on the border with Serbia, Serbia can still redirect the flow of migrants to Bosnia and then Croatia has a border with Bosnia so long that such a way of solving the problem is simply irrational. So, of course, they logically plan to bring as many people to Slovenia as possible. They have done this in the past, and we must not forget these things. Are we ready? The government and ministers are always insisting that we are. If their words are true, then from our southern borders we will be able to look very soon at ugly and unpleasant images, because our security authorities will have to forcely stop all this crowd coming from the south. That we have doubts in New Slovenia that the Government is ready for all of this, the following facts tell. The team that's supposed to protect the southern border, that's the police, is unmotivated and in the middle of the sentence. At the same time, yesterday, the Minister of Defence claimed that there was no need to activate article 37a of the Defence Act. So if we assume that we are not prepared for all the things that await us and that have been for a very long time, then it is clear that there is chaos in the country. For all these people who will find themselves in Slovenia, Slovenia will not be able to take care of them because it does not even have the capacity. For this reason, we will certainly be able to follow the picture of bus and train stations occupied in the coming days, where migrants will be found to get a roof over their heads. Today all these things are passing us because things are going along the rail tracks and things are not going to touch us when they stop this kind of transport in Austria, then even more problems will start for Slovenia. But time will tell who is telling the truth, whether the government is really ready or not. In order to be ready, however, we should have fences at all the more easily accessible ends and places of southern Slovenia due to Croatia's plans. We should have a highly motivated team to defend the technical barrier or fence on our southern border. This means that the agreement with the police and the activation of Article 37a should be reached as soon as possible. However, we should also have foreign political initiatives to finally start solving problems of origin. True, we are discussing this subject six times. But why? Again and again, because what government representatives have claimed has never proved to be true in practice. But maybe six times we wouldn't discuss this issue if we did what we can in particular, protect ourselves and protect our interests, and if we understood that we are part of the European Union and that initiatives and solutions are expected from us. We constantly listen to the guarantee that the European Union has not done so has not done so. For God's sake, we or Slovenia are the European Union. You can imagine that we have an external minister who is supposed to be the coordinator for this migration crisis, at least that's what the government has authorized him to do. And since the Minister is very regularly answering my questions and will most likely answer this quickly, I am interested in how many foreign political initiatives the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia has had in connection with the migration crisis. In these times, we have seen a number of foreign political initiatives by other ministers, from the Dutch, Visegrad and so on. Where's our Foreign Minister? Thank God, again, that we have the President of the Government, who, at the most difficult and critical moments when the Minister of Foreign Affairs cancels, as has happened in the event of arbitration and as is happening now, takes the initiative into his own hands and actually takes the action. This is why in New Slovenia we welcome the letter sent by the Prime Minister of Macedonia regarding the assistance of Macedonia. Of course, our options are not boundless. If we want to be responsible, then we need to deal with the situation, especially who and how many people are coming to Slovenia. Above all, we must adapt our asylum policy so that it does not create an even greater conflict in the country. Again, let us ask ourselves what we have done to control the flow of people coming to Slovenia. We have a fence that's not protected. As you could monitor on television cameras, some even survive, cut it, destroy it. Did we do something? We have once again complained a lot about how the European Union does not do this and that, again, I warn you that we are the European Union, so we complain about ourselves. We knew that the agreement with Turkey did not work, that despite the large and large coastguard, Greece still did not significantly stop the flow of migrants to their islands, that Serbia was excellent at redirecting the migratory flow – first it went to Hungary, then it focused on Croatia, then it will probably go to Bosnia later, in short, that is how Serbs do it and that is how they do it. Croatia is not participating, and we know it. We also know the reasons why Croatia is not participating. We know what is going on in Sweden, that we have a minority government there, which, under the threat of budget adoption, had to agree to a substantial limit on the number of migrants, that Denmark has reacted, that we can follow what is happening in Germany every day, and what is the situation in the coalition in the German government, where Chancellor Merklov set out a clear outcome on what needs to be done by their CSU police partners, and they will certainly do it sooner than later. In short, we knew all of this, and we could have anticipated and knew that everything would be resolved on the shoulders of Slovenia. Now we are in the moment of truth, when it is clear that in Bulgaria they have a fence, that Hungarians have a fence, that Austrians will also be fenced and then only Slovenia remains. And it can happen very easily and there is a high probability that, of course, Schengen will function normally within all these borders, but not in Slovenia. If I touch the asylum policy. Many of you are discussing how fear is spreading, how intolerance is spreading. Do you ever go to the parliamentary offices you have on the ground? Do people ever visit you there? Do you ever talk to them? What do they tell you? They tell you that it is unfair and unfair for our guests to get more than our own citizens. It's not creating fear, it's the truth. If this Government is to be responsible, it must respond to such things in the sense that such an asylum policy does not create major conflicts. Be assured that if there is a belief among the people that some people do not get even €400 and that they are having a hard time dating from month to month – here I should be aware in particular of the loving party of pensioners – that some pensioners are very difficult to live on, what people should think about and how they should think if guests in Slovenia get more. This will normally accelerate conflict and intolerance. When the opposition raises such asylum-related questions, it does not open them up to encourage and further create conflict, but we do so to prevent conflicts and possible intolerance in the long term. The greater the conflict between us, the indigenous population, and them, the harder the integration will be. However, multiculturalism obviously does not work and integration is the only solution. Political points-gathering. In Slovenia today we are very unpopular those who advocate a fence and a different asylum policy because we are pictured by being demagogic, that we are impatient, that we are not humanitarian and similar things, so I do not know who is gathering political points here. We say those things that are unpleasant, about which the media have a very different attitude and so on. And maybe even think about the United Left. Do you have any idea what he said the other day? I mean, the ideologist on the United Left, or the far left, has completely put the thinking of the United Left on his head. He made it clear that open borderers or open borders are not the solution. Perhaps it would also be good for the United Left to comment a little on their ideologist. Who's thinking wrong here now? Did they or did Slavoj Žižek swim in the wrong direction? But here I agree with Slavo Žižek that we have two billion hungry people around the world. There are two billion hungry people in this world, but the solution is not to open borders and invite all these people to Europe. This is definitely not a solution, and here I can only agree with Slava Žizko. I'd expect us to talk more about how we're going to get rid of the reasons why these people are all running away. You're saying we're not going to give anything for migrants and the migrant crisis. We have accepted in the budget that €123 million will go towards the migration crisis. Do you know what kind of pension records our people could have? So I'm gonna drop this thing. Can you imagine what we could do with these 123 million in Jordan, Turkey, Syria, Iraq and elsewhere? With the 123 million that Slovenia is spending on the migration crisis today, we would be able to help many more hungry children in Africa and elsewhere than we are helping them in Slovenia. Europe, the Western world, we too are part of the Western world, and in principle we have participated in a number of things, we are going on missions at different ends of the world. It is also right that we are aware of the consequences. Only a short case of the Islamic State, which we are all now fighting, but yet another truth has to be told — even if today the Islamic State is destroyed and eliminated, we have not yet eliminated the causes that created the Islamic State and can very quickly happen to us that when this Islamic State is destroyed, Islamic State number 2 will grow. Therefore, the greatest things we as the Western world can give to the whole world, especially to the underdeveloped, education and literacy. Those of us in Afghanistan were able to see live what it means if people can write and read, what social progress this can be, and how all things start to change substantially. No developmental aid in money can help you as much as it can help you if you can write and read. Let me finish. How do radicalism work out around the world? I think that in the world we have an example of how radicalism is eliminated in a particular case — that is, Nazism after World War II. How did the Western world get rid of him? By occupying such countries for a long time and helping to build democratic institutions, including the Marshall Plan and the additional money, it helped to bring this end of the world and this land back on its feet. Of course, we're leaving and we're coming and we're leaving quickly. In short, to conclude, of course, for all I have just said, we need an active Minister for Foreign Affairs, this is a story for another meeting. Perhaps the quick and hypnotic solution mentioned by a colleague from the United Left to propose to the SDS is to execute the SMC, perhaps it is a prediction of some great coalition and also a nice opportunity to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his work and finally allow him to spend more time on his weekend in Croatia. When we look back over the years and wonder who was right in these debates and debates today, I wish for Slovenia's sake that we were wrong and that you were right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Before I give you my word, I must also read that we are going through the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, the proponent of mags has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for your words, but unfortunately things are too serious for the level now afforded by the ruling coalition in the opening explanations. In fact, it is the existence of the European Union and the future of the country of Slovenia in another community, in this community, let us work for it, but in any case things are such that we have never before seen Slovenia as a decisive moment as we are now. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much what a representative of the largest government party and then the representative of Desus, when they said, "We should come together." Based on what? We have proposed conclusions, you have rejected all the way to the last, including those with which you agree in your words, but you have not proposed a single decision and not a single solution. Then you say we should go together. Yeah, based on what? Pooh is one of the principal sins, the first Bible, or the arrogance of power. If that's the case, ladies and gentlemen, it's just that and nothing else. If someone says that you see how we work, that's where we have to step together, I believe you're trying, but you're trying in the wrong direction, many times and too many times, and above all you're not hearing timely warnings. If you do not understand what is going on, take a look at the actions of neighbouring countries. What really is the conduct of Austria and Italy, which sent the army to the border? This is an untrustworthy Slovenian government that is obviously unable to implement Schengen throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, including its southern border. They tell you they don't trust you. I believe that in the words you are always shivering at your back again and silently think: Bumblebees, what you set your backs for all of Europe, for in the end you will be the most insatiable, better you than us. What is the problem of this crisis? This crisis has shown that Europe is not ready for such a challenge. It's historically conditioned because Uncle Sam was always here. If someone looked at Europe badly, Europe said, "Look, Uncle Sam, he's looking at me badly. Uncle Sam came, drove him twice, and he was a mess of peace, but Europe was "hurry" and "hurry" and "hurry" and forgot that life was a very serious thing. Therefore, it is simply not capable of dealing with such a crisis. The result is that it is not possible to rely on the European institutions and that it is not possible to rely on the words of the neighbours, because you have already figured it out, because you have been deceived so many times when you have put your trust in the words given to you by one and the other, that you should already be taught this, but forgive me, this kind of naivety in foreign policy is no place. Modern foreign policy, you know that very well, is, with all the words and all the values on which it is sworn, but above all, the ruthless exercise of the own interests of its own country and the protection of its citizens and citizens and the values on which it is based. It's a modern foreign policy. This is exactly what is happening in Europe right now because there is no consensus, because there is no sense of problem at the same level. Some countries are not so exposed, they are different, and this makes it even more difficult to deal with these things. What exactly is going on? As a result of things like this, the forces that tear Europe apart are being strengthened. It's a left-wing case. Who opened the border down in Greece? Extreme leftists who make fools out of all over Europe, and then there was no real answer. The Greeks themselves have so many sailors that they could stop it immediately if they wanted to, but they don't, because they're screwing around at the expense of Europe and they want another 200 billion because left-wing people can't do anything else. It counts on Turkey. I'm sorry, Turkey, but you should know that by now, it's not one of the saviors, but it's an integral part, if not even a source of the problem. Now there were three billion in Turkey, and Erdogan pulled some new political and other profits out of it. Is that why the flow stopped? No, no, no, no. That minimum reduction can only be attributed in winter because they cause it. They're organizing it if anyone doesn't know it by chance. Read the reports a little bit. The problem is also what has also been seen from some discussions that people, unfortunately also people in this room, simply do not have all the information. This is not just a Slovenian problem to understand, it is an even more European problem. What happened? Leftist media, mainstream media – also partly funding Soros to understand that money is in the back, as is always money, even when left-hand talk about how capitalism and similar nonsense should be pursued. Then why do all these migrants want capitalism in this rot? But because in the background, money, as we said, is also in the media, specifically Soros's money, there's a situation where what you actually have in the FDV textbooks is the biggest problem in public information, and it's not that there's something there that's not true or false, but that something is systematically and planned to be ignored. Something is taboo, it's not written about, it's not spoken of, and people just don't have it in their minds. As a result, let’s just say that when we saw some recordings that were heartbreaking, let’s admit, but they were unilateral. Ask yourself why in these same media you have never seen girls beheaded from Mosul or hanging boys. There hundreds of children were killed by Islamic extremists, especially ISIS, only because they were children of Christian parents. The girls were beheaded, the boys were hanged in the streets. So long that Mosul, who was once to a large extent a Christian city, does not have one today. But that's what Europe was silent about. All religious communities were more or less silent that the matter was even more sad, and especially the media was quiet. Because it wasn't conscious, it wasn't talked about. In the official reports, ladies and gentlemen, those who cared for security in the Mediterranean, including in military ships, even our own, if you like, read well how the cases were recorded when on boats migrants found that there was someone else's religion, especially Christians, usually Jesuits and some others, they were simply drowned. We introduced into Europe what we would call mass murderers. But you couldn't read anything about it, and it happened every day. You've got this in your reports as much as you want, you can check it out. Today, however, there is a situation here in this House where an MP comes and says it is a lie. No, it's not a lie, you're the only one who obviously doesn't know it because you're sitting on your ears, your eyes are closed, and you believe the mainstream media. All of this can be found if it gets a little stalemate, and you also have it in the official reports of the official institutions, you don't have to discover any new science. When it comes to all possible nonsense, remember what they served us, partly from government and partly from central media, when this story was hidden, how highly educated engineers and surgeons come and how this will be the cultural enrichment of Europe. I'm sorry, I'm just waiting, I said this the last time, I'm just waiting for a leftist or a lefty to come up and say that Europe is now culturally enriched because the game of taharrus gamea has played with several hundred Europeans all over Europe. Is that cultural wealth? Maybe for you. I personally think it's a form of terrorism. What's the problem with the whole story? There's something else about it from the beginning. I would have remembered months ago when we first talked about these things, it was still spring and then summer. At the time, I said that, excuse me, there are no refugees, let's put the matter right, we're a state of law, the real foundation of modern democracy. Don't tell me about the fugitives. They're not refugees. You can be a fugitive if your life is in danger in the first safe country. There's not a single fugitive. Without being individuals, that's still what we're talking about. No one is a fugitive after the legal acts in force. None, none. You can give it to him, but it'll be made up. Since he may be a fugitive in the first safe country and a dot, from there he is a migrant. That's the problem, because from the beginning, people got the wrong feeling, and then there was an absurdity. Especially in those first groups where they were young men themselves, 2 000 500 people came to Munich, there were no children, no women, no older men, nothing, young men themselves. That was the first group they brought on the train. Go take a look at those videos and find a child or a woman there. What kind of fugitives? And their women are fighting down in Syria. There's something else here. Before that, even as a result of this media closure of left-wing media, Europe had closed its eyes and made wrong decisions. And today it's coming back to her like a horrible boomerang. But the problem is that this comes back to us, even more so, because we are small, we are weak. We cannot force anyone to accept any of our interpretations as we would like to interpret a regulation or an agreement. That is why we have proposed conclusions that are logical, which should actually be self-sufficient. On what was this government elected, the people of God? At the oath of Dr. Cerar to respect the rule of law! Go look back! We have proposed a decision to respect the law. This was the decision we proposed and you voted against it. So much for how we should get together. On what grounds? I'm not ready to go together on the basis that we're all going to break the laws together. No, ladies and gentlemen, they must be respected. Even if Europe's rules were consistently respected, none of what was happening would ever happen. It is only about law, respect for law, legal principles and the rule of law. But it is true that Europe has obviously not been able to face the reality, because it has been too used to 'past', as I said before. The problem is that it costs a lot. It costs a lot of money, which we can show very nicely on the next case. The budget for this year is 123 million for migrants. In doing so, we have officers who set their backs on this story for everyone else, work night and day, risk their health and life, and we have soldiers who do the same, and we have other jobs that care the same, and there is no money for them. The police have been on strike for two months now, because the government is screwing around for a few thousand, and to be perfect for a day, that minister, who has apparently carried away 45 thousand euros illegally, is also giving him a ride to the Prime Minister. Yeah, it's a great state of law. That's what I have to say. Ethics and responsibility, that was the basis of this government's programme, on which it was elected. It's a responsibility to the people, ladies and gentlemen, you've forgotten that. Who do you represent here, anyway? Ordinary people, those who elected you, all citizens and citizens. And they're scared. They are justified in fear of such authority, for I am also. As a result, people look for other ways to protect themselves and protect themselves. And it's not just us, it's happening all over Europe. Then comes the principle of action and reaction, which is the worst thing that can happen. But I wonder if that's the point. Do you know why I'm asking myself that? Once again, because I know that Internet networks through which migrants have negotiated for the game taharrus gamea read the group rape and sexual harassment of women, if anyone does not know what Slovenian translation of this is – not only in Germany, as it is said, not only in Cologne, but also in other countries, from Finland on – under the supervision of the secret services, including the common service of the European Union, if you do not know it. So these people knew that, the police knew that, and no one acted. I wonder what kind of community we live in, and what kind of country we live in, if everyone's acting like there's nothing clear to anyone. Now that's a serious problem. Is there going to be some other system or what? Does he want to provoke the opposite reaction? I'm afraid that's exactly what it is. Then exactly the same left-wings who basically caused the matter will be offered as saviors for everything on top of it, and this will be perverse, and I must say that. What Churchill already said: The real fascists of the future will call themselves anti-fascists. I am afraid that we are witnessing exactly this in Europe right now, given the situation we have before us. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if you say that we must step together, we can, but we can step together on the basis of respect for the Constitution, respect for the values, respect for the law, the rule of law, the principles of law and international agreements, those which also bind the state of Slovenia, which we have ratified and therefore constitute an integral part of our legal order. If we reach agreement on this, the one that you voted against on Monday, which is why there is no conclusion here today, if we reach agreement on this, then we have a really great basis to stand together and start looking for optimal solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u23	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mr Uroš Prikl should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. When I listen to my colleague Grims like this, I'm really scared, not of migrants, but of everything else. Slovenia is still a safe country. To date, more than 420,000 migrants have crossed Slovenia. Between 1 January and 12 p.m., 41 000 migrants entered Slovenia today, all without major incidents. You want to create some kind of state of emergency, some state of chaos, and it's not. Not only have we been discussing this for the sixth time today in an extraordinary session, but there have been 15 meetings of working bodies. You have received the answers to 43 written questions and 12 oral questions sent, so that these allegations that the Government does not inform you and you do not get information do not, of course, hold. Even the allegations that the Government is complaining about what Europe has not done are not true. It's just information about the actual situation, about the situation on the ground, about what's going on. Slovenia has taken an extremely active approach to solving this problem. Finally, at our initiative or at the initiative of the President of the Government, the EU's mini summit with the Balkans was convened. Today, a letter has already been mentioned with certain solutions sent by the President of the Government to the members of the European Union. Slovenia comes every day with initiatives for joint active action. Our ministers are daily in contact with colleagues from European countries. The last meeting, which Slovenia attended with the Visegraj Group, was yesterday. In addition to Slovenia, Serbia and Macedonia attended this meeting and again there was no Croatia. And that's a fact, not a yawn. When we talk about Slovenia, together with Austria and Germany, seeking certain solutions, most of these solutions come at the initiative of Slovenia, which does not mean that when Austria and Germany propose a solution, of course Slovenia must grab it with both hands, even though it is bad for Slovenia. That's what happened, and that's what our minister said no. Only because such a solution as was proposed for Slovenia was a bad result. They're looking for solutions ahead. In addition to all these activities, the Government also monitors all actions and activities of other countries and responds accordingly. It is a matter of reality that is changing daily, and it is right to respond to it. This is what other countries do. So the chaos is not, the government has the situation under control and, as I said, great efforts are being made on the internal political and external political floor. The claim that the Schengen no longer exists is of course not true. Slovenia is still a member of the European Union, the Schengen has not yet been suspended and the Schengen rules, as has been said, have not been adapted for such massive arrivals of migrants. This is of course to change, but since there are currently no common solutions, each country responds in its own way, there is no single approach to amending these rules, and administrative procedures have somehow been simplified. At the entry point, the rules have adapted to the number of migrants waiting at the border, which is simplified, because when it reaches the 2 000 migrants limit at once, of course we cannot expect them to stop at the border and wait for registration even after a day or two to be carried out and that is, of course, all in terms of security conditions. However, the essence of the Schengen is still being implemented in a way that is therefore adapted to the current situation of mass organised arrivals at our border. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 562/2006 of the European Parliament, Article 23, under which each Member State has the right to temporarily introduce control at its internal borders. And this surveillance is, colleagues and colleagues, also the possibility of using technical means. If Slovenia intervened in the way other countries exercised this control and the measures they were taking, this would, of course, involve Slovenia in some of the autonomy of the other countries. I don't think we, as a country that has taken similar measures, would have allowed that. And if I recall correctly, you also voted in favour of the proposed measures. Currently, there are quite a few members at their borders – Denmark, Sweden, Austria, Germany and so on. These members actually do nothing but do Slovenia. It is not really about closing borders, it is not about non-implementing Schengen, it is about this exercise of justice under Article 23, which each Member State has. The European Commission has already reviewed these measures and, in its report of 23 October 2015, assessed that all the measures adopted are proportionate to the situation in which Europe is located. The Mini-Schengen, which you keep stressing, is an idea that has emerged in professional circles as some form of political pressure with a view to putting pressure on those countries that do not implement the Schengen, and this is not Slovenia. This idea is not a pressure on Slovenia, but on those countries that do not do so, which therefore do not make some maximum efforts to protect external borders, and this is not Slovenia. The whole of Europe recognises that Slovenia is well coping with the situation in which it found itself under control and is receiving praise from this point of view. Of course, it is a problem because there is no common action and there is no common policy. This is also evident in the conduct of individual members and, if you want, also in the conduct of Germany and Austria, because there is no vision that they are responding to the current situation. But I didn't hear that report from you, even though it's obvious. That is why all the other members also respond as they can. At the same time, as I have already said, Slovenia is one of the most active ones coming with initiatives and proposals for a joint resolution of the situation. Speaking of Schengen, if you also read the opinions of the European Union or lawyers a little bit, they have always laid down the protection of human rights over the Schengen rules. Therefore, when it comes to the protection of human rights or Schengen, human rights have priority. I have to agree here with some of the opinions that have already been made today. The opposition is actually gaining some political points, some of the works from this capital, even so far we have come to connect with Croats, spitting on their own government, at a moment that is the most critical in the history of this common country, so we should really work together in a direction that was good for Slovenia and good for that nation. But I'm sorry, you seem to be doing the opposite of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u25	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor first, then you will be given the word Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Matjaž Germany, unless someone else comes forward in the middle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u26	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Reports are just coming from Austria that this year only 37 000 more asylum seekers will be admitted to their country. All others who do not apply for asylum will return to the Republic of Slovenia and will not be allowed to enter the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we're gambling with the state because we don't know what we're gonna do tomorrow. We will take proportionate measures. What's our upper quota? How do we secure the southern border? What kind of procedures are we going to run? I don't have the answers to these questions. When you speak to the European Union, a common solution, I will say as your President of the Government. Don't yawn, but look for solutions to what we're going to do at home. For the European Union, as we have known it in the past, is no longer. And that's never gonna happen again. But there are still certain legal obligations and the best way is, of course, a legal path and we have to stick to these obligations. And we didn't stick to them in the past. Here is the reason for our initiative for an extraordinary session. Because we are violating existing international acts because we are violating legislation. We do not respect rules and obligations because we do not have measures, we simply organise transport from Dobova to Šentilj. Because without legal basis we grant migrants a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia for half a year and unlimited movement, which is why Austria excludes us and closes the border with us. Because we are unreliable because we are not trustworthy, Austria does not trust us. On the other hand, Austria has not done such measures as it has done with Slovenia with Hungary, so it is completely ineffective in dealing with the migration crisis in Hungary. Once again, you say that we are effective, that until Austria has accepted migrants into its country, we have organised only illegal "smuggling" across its country. But once again, I stress that Austria does not close its borders with Hungary, and the Schengen rules still apply there. And the border with Slovenia closes. Here we see our inefficiency, only in the area of these three countries. So why today's session? Because there's nothing. You're saying we've convened an extraordinary session six times. Yeah, but if you don't have one initiative yourself. Understand our extraordinary sessions as an opportunity for an exchange of views, as an incentive to come up with some solutions. Once again, I stress that there has been no solution so far. The government did not bring solutions to the National Assembly as such. I also hear politics on the one hand today by the President of the National Assembly in the introductory explanation of the positions and the attacks on the applicants, rather than some solutions. Same by the Ministry. Fearful again on the other hand, I speak as Primorac that just as Austria does Italy to close the border with the Republic of Slovenia. Some Italian newspapers, such as Corriere della Sera, have already written about it. Madam Minister, once again, take seriously what Corriere della Sera writes, because these are usually messages from government representatives or spins to the public to prepare the ground for a subsequent solution within one month. If I wrote this to the market Il piccolo, I'd just wave my hand, because that would be politics. But if it is one of the more serious Italian newspapers, it is a matter of concern. I do not imagine, this is not only in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, but mainly of the locals, the Primors, citizens and citizens who migrate daily between Italy and Slovenia to close this border. So we only measure our success until we can organise "smuggling" in Austria. Now you're going to ask what we're proposing. See, this moment is essential what the Republic of Slovenia must do to start respecting the law and to close the southern border, the border with Croatia, for all illegal refugees and to let those who ask for asylum into the country. Without respect for the rule of law, there is no state. The legal path is the best path and the only possible path. Those who are hungry who knock on our door at the border, those who are thirsty, we will satisfy them all. However, those who, for such or other purposes as economic migrants, knock on our doors, unfortunately, given the circumstances that they do not have the documents in force, cannot be admitted to the Republic of Slovenia. 'Cause where are we gonna send them? Where? Slovenia will become a pocket. What you keep saying will not happen will happen in this way. Even all your predictions so far, from not putting technical obstacles to what has been said at the outset, that we have blamed Orban's policy, which today appears to be effective, that we speak in Brussels, that we will not allow ourselves to be the initiators of the EU summit of the Balkans at the end of October, and that no decision from this summit is fulfilled, are just words but actions are not. No neighbouring country anymore trusts us to be serious about dealing with the migration crisis, which is why they are closing borders on us. I would like to point out that Hungary doesn't. Asylum policy must also be strengthened first. The opposition has already brought a proposal for amendments to asylum legislation to the National Assembly, now brought by the Government. This proposal is even more extensive than existing legislation. On the basis of this law, we are actually further invited to Slovenia, not further, but other EU Member States are reducing asylum legislation. And with the new law that we're probably going to have in the short term, we're doing this legislation even more generously, even though we don't know where we're going with them, given that Austria has announced that it's going to take 37 thousand 500 more this year. So let us respect the law, close the border, and, above all, I want to keep Slovenia in the Schengen area, not only on paper, but also in fact that I can go to Trieste or Gradec without being examined at the border. But not because of me, but because of the future, because of my children and your children, because I do not want them to live south of the Schengen border, but that they are north of the Schengen border, in society of the more developed countries of Central Europe. Visegrad was also mentioned. Just yesterday, my fellow Servant said it was this meeting, but they offered us a hand. We turned her down. They offered us a hand, us and the Serbs, to protect the southern border, we refused. Foreign Minister Erjavec also vehemently argued at the end of last year that the mini-schengen would not arise, that our country is not threatened, that security is at the highest level. As regards security, it is fine, but how it will be next week or in the coming weeks, because the quota of 37 000 500, as far as Austria is still willing to accept asylum seekers, will be exhausted within 20 days at a migratory rate such as today. Then there will also be a security problem. Furthermore, Madam Minister and Secretary of State, I would like to ask publicly why or for what purpose you are looking for so-called migrant centres, refugee centres. Are we preparing to be a pocket? I ask what is our upper quota, which we will accept. How many migrants will we continue to accept? I ask for these answers and repeat, take measures, close the border with Croatia for all economic migrants and let us not gamble with the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u27	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! Of course, I am joining all those who strongly reject such a kind of discussion with a view to political accounting in order to obtain cheap, I stress, cheap political points. We are talking about the migrant crisis, we are talking about people who are leaving their homes, leaving everything they have there, and they are surrendering to an unpredictable, often dark future. I am afraid that this migration crisis is becoming one weight, bigger, humanitarian crisis of broader dimensions, which we do not know how it will end in the final stage. Let's take a look back. Where is the focus of this crisis? The hotspots of this crisis are countries such as Iraq and Syria. Let us ask ourselves why people are leaving these countries. Do they really want to, or are they forced to? Is this the only solution left for them to leave their home fires if you want, even their loved ones, or do they go along with their neighbors and go around the world? I don't want to leave my homeland, my country, but when I'm forced into a situation where I have no other option and I'm left with this one, I'm just holding on to these plants. Let's ask ourselves something else. Who cooked up the situation? Who destabilized this area? I think the view across the Atlantic is telling us everything. But what is essential is that we ask ourselves, ‘ Let us be united and let us find a solution to this matter. ’ How to restore stability, peace and everything else these countries had or should have. Fire extinguishing shall start at the hot point of the fire itself. The waves of the refugee crisis are not a hotspot, it is only a consequence, and the unforeseeable fates of these people are only a result of what has been a mistake in the area of Syria, Iraq, perhaps another country could count, say Libya. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The European Union has certainly not been prepared for such a large, oversized challenge as the present migration refugee crisis. That is why once more it is necessary to shrink the species, to join forces, to step together, if I may express myself very plasticly, and to find common solutions, solutions for all of us. If that is not possible, let us split up, but in the same breath I ask myself, I am speaking in the context of the European Union why we should break up. Do we not believe in this Europe anymore? Do we not believe in a Europe that has emerged as a plural, multicultural, democratic and anti-fascism-based community of several countries, which are different, yet have some common interests and certainly these interests are respect for human rights? Not that the refugee crisis would be a small, trivial problem, how big it is. But just when you run into problems, you can see how strong you are or how hard you are to solve them and how much stronger and better you are to rise up and start a new day on the basis of solutions. I appeal to all, respectable colleagues and respected colleagues, who have or have anything to do with co-governing the country, not to frighten people, not to panic, not to create fertile soil for the expansion and development of militant forces that sow hatred and fear among people. Do not give the opportunity to repeat the story of the 30th century, which had its apparent dimensions. Associating and not disassociating, let's make it our motto. Let's act, let's solve the situation, the problems you have, if you want, responsible, human, human, especially dignified. In the interest of all migrants who need to be guaranteed basic human rights and dignity, let us, of course, also have in mind the safety, basic living conditions and dignity of our citizens and citizens in particular. I believe that if we have one aspect on one side and on the other, we can be so predictable that we can be so empathetic and achieve both goals. I think we owe this, which is in the interest of all of us and the European Union as a wider community, to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u29	The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, this is very interesting. If I believed anything after that fall session we had, unfortunately it was largely closed, but in the part I'm going to talk about, it wasn't closed because I asked the director of the intelligence how it was. I would hope that we will unite for once at least in the fact that this current does not run the war to the fullest extent, it is driven by money. One is the desire for money, which is the main motive, and the other is money, money from Arab countries, especially Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, not officially from the state, but from the richest families of Arabs in these countries, which is there, by the way, almost one and the same. This actually drives the flow, which is why these people had so much money, so they found many migrants with 50, 300,000 euros or more. If you go with 10,000 euros and a little more across the border to Austria, they'll stop you now because the Schengen is gone if you haven't noticed. And they're 300 thousand euros over. It was a green light for all the smugglers of this world. But that we could even talk about the real dimensions of the story. You say it's war and that. Do you know that in these first waves that went through — I do not currently have the latest data, but it can undoubtedly be obtained — about a third of the people from Kosovo, Iran and Pakistan, from countries where there is no war. In Iran, all the sanctions that have been imposed have now been lifted because they have reached an agreement on nuclear weapons. That's all that was going on. Poor fugitives. What poor refugees? It's just money. Money for those who paid them to travel and organized them, if you do not know it, ask little about the role of Turkish secret services and the media in this story. That's why they were organized into groups of 40s, each had a leader, they were all connected, and that's why they had so much money on them. Of course, there is also money for those who have ensured that the media in Europe have made a fine basis for their arrival. Now that it's total chaos, there's talk of nonsense. If you do not understand anything, please go to the Austrian website now and see what they are talking about right now about solving the migrant crisis. If you don't know German, go to RTV Slovenia. Just one sentence should be your key. When they predict that they will drastically limit – what kind of 20 days will the matter continue to work and then the end – they predict the emergence of slums, literally slums in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which can threaten even Austrian security. Slums of all those illegal migrants who will stay here and stay. Do you know what this means for Slovenia, sir? Now go see what you just said. That's what we're talking about. None of this would have been possible if some in politics, including in the Slovenian Government and its coalition, had taken the right to simply open borders, not to respect their own legislation, to say, "No problem, everyone, come inside, welcome." Now here's the problem. Don't talk to me about human rights. You go explain human rights to all those victims of taharrus gamea over there in Cologne and all the other places. What is the fundamental right of every citizen and citizen? That he lives safely, that his human integrity is respected, and that is his duty to ensure. First of all, safety. Here you have failed on the entire line, and, by the way, the European Union unfortunately too. How now? There's only one solution. Start at last there, right in these conclusions that we've proposed. Start to respect your own legal order, as you yourself promised the voters before the elections, that you will consistently respect the principles of the rule of law, which, of course, means that the southern border needs to be immediately closed, that the Schengen will be implemented throughout the territory and then there will be no more migrants here and there will be no problem up north. Suddenly, there will be no need for any barbed wires, no fences, nothing will be necessary if this is carried out consistently. That's the only thing you can't do. That's your problem. But we could have done it, only determination would be necessary. It's just determination. Determinedness for what you yourself have received as a term of office in the elections in order to respect the principles of the rule of law. Do not say that it is not the subject of further negotiations, that the army withdraws and everything else that is now at the Slovenian borders, because they have already completely surrounded us if no one has noticed. In every normal country, this is a subject of negotiation, this is not the subject of internal affairs. How much more is the subject of interstate negotiations if one country sends another army to the border. Don't talk nonsense. Whenever you look, in history the withdrawal of military troops from the borders is subject to negotiations between countries. But what have we suggested with these conclusions? First set things straight before your threshold, first respect the Schengen, first respect the regulations, first close the border for all illegal migrants, then take this argument to the negotiations and you will see that the Schengen will be reopened to Slovenia. But if you don't want to do it for one reason, then of course say it. Or if you are not capable, in this case, of course, step down immediately. This is the only solution for Slovenia, and now is the time. If anyone else thought it was time to fuck around, he's gone. The amount forecast by Austria will be met within 10 to 14 days, no need for 20 days. Have you at last survived what this means for Austrian experts to warn you about the creation of migrant slums in Slovenia, which pose a security potential threat to Austria and thus justify further strengthening of military units? Please go read what the Austrian RTV website says and what our RTV Slovenia says in this article. Then you'll understand that the joke is over and that it's over for you to fuck around and talk here. What is the fundamental human right of every citizen and every citizen in Slovenia? I'll say it again. The right to live safe. And you have a responsibility to ensure that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u31	Please, next time, at least the tone in which they speak is a little less, as a person might call it, a threat. [[advertising in the hall]] I wasn't attacking anyone with a tone. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek has procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u32	I would ask the President to warn some speakers that the generalisation of individual acts of some people to the whole group means hate speech, meaning racism, means discrimination. I've been listening to this all day. I'll give you an example, but don't think I do. The extreme rightist Breivik, because he hated refugees and migrants, did not happen to have killed 77 members of a left party in Sweden. If I were to draw the same from this, I would say that this is true for extreme right-wing people, although I know that we cannot and must not attribute extremely dirty individual crimes to the whole group, political, religious and so on. I've been hearing the same thing all day. Mr President, please let the public know that this does not continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u33	I agree that the generalisations leading to the same marking of everyone, although one case has been so, are not appropriate. Even less so are the generalizations that have taken place elsewhere and are supposed to refer to Slovenia, on this subject that we have today. I agree with that. But it's so hard to recognize it in a speech that it's almost impossible. But what I warned you about before is this tone that's scary. Please do not use it, if possible, because you know how to say the matter beautifully, articulately, so there is no problem. But please, I'm scared. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Prepare Matjaž Hanžek and Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings for me, too! At 6 p.m., we are discussing a similar subject here today. Although I personally am not surprised if this conversation is in some way constructive, rhetorically acceptable, not offensive and primarily aimed at solving problems. True, the number six does not mean anything because of the constant change in circumstances from day to day. Even today, as we were able to monitor the latest developments, the predecessors have already told us what is going on in Austria. But more and more and more debates point out two theories, one is the closing theory of the European Union and, as a result, our country, the second theory is the opening of the European Union and our country. We do not believe in either of them, but we believe in the theory that calls for the cooperation of the State of the European Union and its peoples and of the countries outside it, because, at least from the fall of the New York twins to today, the Western world, which we, too, in some way identify ourselves with, in the North Africa, the Middle East and the Middle East, has proved to be hostile, at least in the light of the impact that has had on our actions over the past few years, if I speak of us as Westerners. In fact, everything since the attack is Suis Charlie, if you remember, a year ago, when this attack on a humorous newspaper took place in Paris, Europe was shaken up and there were no solutions. The European Union itself has proved itself, not only in the face of the Greek crisis, when we have solved this financial-banking part, but also in the case of the humanitarian part that emerged in the first summer days as unable to solve or be more capable of solving banking or financial problems than the humanitarian and human beings. But as Donald Tusk said yesterday, within two months – I was talking about three months ago myself – we will not be able to arrange four areas, i.e. reception, accommodation, relocation and possible return of migrants. Until then, we are certainly threatened by the collapse of the system and by some way by the construction of a new Europe, a different Europe from different entities. The first clues of this have already been profiled in some way. I do not agree with those who say that Slovenia is the source of all EU problems and that a different approach to Slovenia will solve all problems. For we, too, have received the closure of the northern border, more attention from our Western neighbours, but let me mention that it was just as or even more a shock to countries such as Sweden, Denmark or Germany, when their borders were recently closed. This phenomenon is not only ours, it is a pan-European phenomenon and as such we must save it. For those who see the only alternative to opening borders, I wonder what co-existence will be like in such circumstances. But those who advocate a robust closure ask what responsibility and our role will be for those who will remain outside the borders. I specifically say that if only we could make a ring around Slovenia imperviously and live with ourselves in harmony, what will happen to all around us. This is why the word of encouragement is particularly important here, and some countries have already adopted this in recent summer days, especially cooperation from the very beginning, I am talking about Syria, North Africa, later Turkey and the Balkan route. There are some movements, mainly in Croatia's relations, and these are crucial. Croatia has been the country that has least participated in this transit route in recent months. All support must be given to Macedonia on our part, because, in the face of Greece's infirmity, I do not attribute this, such as some colleagues, to some ideologies, but Greece has proved to be an inappropriate partner in such measures, practically because of its geographical origin or specificity, as well as its financial characteristics. However, the Macedonians are also the best interlocutor, not only because of their own interest in joining the EU and Euro-Atlantic integration, but also because of the small scope of the border, which could in some way be protected by all together. All EU countries, including Germany, Austria, Slovenia and all others, must aim to ensure that any possible borders, if placed, are placed as far south as possible and as close to origin as possible. As Westerners, as I mentioned in the introductions, we must strive to set conditions for these people in their home environment, but I will not owe it to them, because I think we all understand that. I would avoid passing on a message of hysteria and uncontrollability to people. It is true that when Hungarian Prime Minister Orban announced the closure of the border to impermissibility on 15 October, it took the Republic of Slovenia 14 days to three weeks to highlight certain systems that are still running in some way today. Of course, there are changes on the agenda, changes are taking place in the north and here the question is how the Republic of Slovenia will react. Above all, it is my appeal that we not solve the problems in the bilateral context in relation to the Republic of Croatia, but that we include as many countries as possible, starting with Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia, Greece. In such a case, those who do not want to participate, at least as Croatia is now, will be under diplomatic scrutiny. It is only a matter of time before and in what way this one will have to cooperate. But when I talk about some new, different directions, the Slovenians have always needed an incentive to somehow set a goal and follow a possible path. If Europe no longer acts in such a form, it is certainly our country's natural habitat, such as Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Northern Italy, East France. Also in this context, let me mention that Monday and Tuesday at Brdo pri Kranj will be the establishment of the Alpine macro-region. It's our natural habitat, and that's where we have to look. Some are talking about the Visegrad Group, others are talking about the Balkan countries, from which we come, and we have been almost 50 years together. Multi-urban group, indeed, our Slavic brothers, if I may say so, at least three quarters of these, but especially in recent months with an extremely impatient rhetoric. Even the events in Poland tell us much. Let us not forget the words of the Slovaks that they no longer accept any Muslim, or the only possible solution, to put on fences following the example of the Hungarians. Is this really our future and the solution to our problems? I really doubt that. Even if I set up a 15-meter fence whose responsibility it will be, what will happen on the other side of this fence? That is why my appeal is primarily to call for dialogue and to link the countries of northern western origin, to close cooperation at multilateral level and, above all, to engage in communication with the Republic of Croatia. However, I appeal to Slovenian politicians and Members mainly with a more moderate rhetoric, in particular by calming down and thinking about finding solutions, not with an inappropriate rhetoric that creates problems. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will add something to these attempts to move out conditions for emergencies, which means word manipulation, sowing fear and so on. Will Europe Fail? If Europe fails, it will not fail because of the refugees, but because of its own incompetence. A million refugees in Europe amount to 0.2% of the population. Five million refugees represent 1% of the population. About five million have Turkey, which is one fifth of Europe, but has not yet failed, Lebanon has refugees for one fifth of the population and has not yet failed, although it is very poor. A Europe that is much richer than Turkey could do it, but because of other things. Above all, there is more to the problem of where the causes are, which we have already heard about today. I agree that we are now getting boomerang, but this boomerang is not six months old from the wrong operation of our government, but it has been going on for several decades. For those of you who still remember – look at who wrote this — once the high policy of Western Europe said that communism will not be defeated economically or militarily, but by spreading nationalism and religious intolerance, and this has been happening throughout the world for the past few decades. I may mention Afghanistan, where the United States financed radical religious groups, in order to undermine at least some civilian state where women could also go to school and so on. The West, to say the least, helped destroy this country. Then, when the disciples rebelled against their teacher, it was very difficult for them to calm down. When the Western forces attacked Afghanistan, they were most afraid of the weapons that the former Western countries had given to the Mujahedins, the Stingers, if I recall. Iraq. In Iraq, the West sold heavily toxic gases until Iraq poisoned the Kurds while Iraq released these toxic gases to Iran, because Iran was then a larger enemy of the West, and no one was making a fuss about any human rights. Of course, we were then, if you remember, probably all of you remember, part of a coalition of willing, where we signed that Iraq has a weapons of mass destruction that we haven't found in ten years or a gram, but that was an excuse for what I see today is money, that they destroyed again a country where religion, nationality and sex were at least about equal treatment. The Western countries have destroyed this. Just to keep going with Syria, and I got a whole show. The hypocrisy of Western countries. Now we save Christianity and fight for it. Why do you think the Syrian Christians supported Asada, who was the only one in Syria to provide protection? Because they saw what would come of this attack. But Europe has even supported and sent its boys to attack Assad and peacefully, so to speak, sacrificed Syrian Christians, for whom we are now fighting franticly. This hypocrisy of Western political and economic elites has no limits. Now we're fighting the Sharia law that we're afraid of. Refugees flee from those who have reintroduced Sharia law, but they have, of course, introduced it by means of Western bombs, rockets, tanks and so on, what they have done for 20 years. And now we're demonizing these victims here, stigmatizing them, and I don't know what we're doing with them. At the same time, we have an ally who has been using Sharia law all the time, Saudi Arabia. Every week you go to see, publicly cut your hands, cut your heads, see every victim that ISIS heads up – I absolutely condemn that no one will think that I am defending. But that in Saudi Arabia, in our great alliance, at least five times as many people have been beheaded as ISIS has published, and everyone is silent. The hypocrisy of not being there. So we can ignore all these things, all these threats of fear. I'd finish with the next one. I mentioned one person earlier. On July 22, 2011, Anders Breivik killed 77 young people, I think Social Democrats for defending refugees, migrants and so on. Accidentally, it was not at the hands of refugees or migrants to kill them. I'm afraid that what I'm listening to today and what I've been listening to on Monday – then it's even worse today, it's a little better today, but mostly in this story – will encourage some Slovenian Breivik and use some worse weapons instead of pig heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the word to prepare Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President-in-Office. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am somewhat disappointed that there are many of us here who do not understand the parliamentary democracy that we decided on 25 years ago. This, of course, consists of the coalition and the opposition. Of course, it's the National Assembly that's putting the government and also the government's supervisory authority. One of you has problems with the meeting counter, instead of going in this direction, that someone and precisely who needs to call a political summit, let's say the presidents and leaders of the parliamentary groups of all parliamentary parties to discuss the key issues, that is, the migration crisis, too. Should this summit be convened by the President of New Slovenia, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Christian Democrats? You'll be snarling and the media will be doing just the same. It is known who must invoke this and these were very good practices in the past 25 years of the independent state. I would like you all to understand the concept of parliamentary democracy together and to understand that the opposition, however, probably has some good solutions. He's probably got them. We have been chosen from the people, too. Just like you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. I haven't heard from anyone today that I'd be appalled at what's going on in Vienna today. In Vienna today there is a kind of political summit of Austria, there are also country leaders, there are also representatives of the municipalities and are looking together for solutions, because more people in one place probably find a common solution, which is also then acceptable to all. It would also be easier for the Prime Minister and all of our ministers attending the meetings of the European institutions, the European Council, the Foreign Affairs Council and so on to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which has decided this and that, therefore, we must do this as an executive branch of the Authority. I strongly agree here with Minister Györkös, who says that this is the most difficult problem since independence until now. Yeah, the hardest. I would also like to take into account or take into account those documents that we actually adopted a few months ago in the National Assembly. On 10 July, the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted, which in the fourth chapter discusses the implementation of foreign policy and the implementation of the declaration. Among other things, there is also this declaration – which we have accepted, I have voted in favour, and many of you, too, have received more than the constitutional majority – which requires, inter alia, the search for broad political and social consensus on fundamental foreign policy orientations. In some ways, this is an external policy direction, although we say that when we are within the EU, it is an internal political thing. Colleagues and colleagues, we have Schengen de iure and we have a non-schengen de facto. About 18,000, no official numbers, daily and weekly migrant workers go to work in Austria. There's a bunch of them in my office asking me how it's going to be now that the Schengen is no longer in force. Is it true that the Schengen will not apply? We don't know. We would like to discuss the discussions, let's say last with Mrs Merklova or, as we have heard and read in the media, Mr Erjavec – Mr Sebastian Kurz, at a closed session, the government has spoken and told us what gentlemen, our representatives of the government, have talked about. Now the noise is that again, six or so, this ugly opposition is calling a meeting and what I've heard is that we are now starting to decommission the country. Oh, my God. The Netherlands presides over the Council of the European Union. First priority: A holistic approach to migration and international security. If Slovenia were to chair, it would probably be the same as our first priority. Let's move to the European Parliament. Today, Mr Rutte warns: In eight weeks, it is imperative to reduce the number of refugees significantly. Mr Tusk adds: the European Union has only two months to go, otherwise the Schengen will fall apart. I said it exactly two months ago at Odessa, and today I repeat that if Slovenia is to be expelled from Schengen, if we are to be south of the Schengen border, this government must say good-bye from Gregorčičeva, sorry. Just two months ago, I said this, and on 14 December, I asked the Prime Minister an oral question and referred to Mr Disselbloem, the head of the Eurogroup, who said that if the marginal states did not act otherwise, it was necessary to establish a mini-scheng. We warn, nothing else, we warn, we are the executive branch of power, we have no government, we warn, and please, dear colleagues, take these warnings as well-meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It is not unusual for me if, at a time when this problem is of such wide dimensions and probably also the greatest in the last decade of European history, Parliament is engaged in this, but it would be very happy if we could all focus to some extent on sending a joint report, an even clearer message, both to the executive branch of government and, in fact, what we want. Today, there has been a lot of talk, such and different content, and I will not go into all dimensions of this problem, but I personally believe that only a global European solution to this problem is possible. I believe that and I don't believe in partial solutions. Of course, this does not mean that, in a given case, like today, when we learn the latest information from Austria and also from other European circles, we cannot act with temporary solutions. Unfortunately, we must, but there is no doubt that the only solution is a global solution, which means clear control at the external Schengen border. We just have to get to that point, and I am very sad — and probably all of us sitting here and also of the citizens of Europe — that this has not yet happened. You just can't believe it, but I'm sorry. As we are not prepared that Europe has not been prepared, but that individual countries act in a partial way, the question is why, but it has been asking for too long. Unfortunately, I still don't see that true desire and true will to resolve this matter, even with regard to the normal control of the entrance to the Schengen area. At the same time, today is also a time when we need to agree precisely on those excessive amounts of those who have just come — I do not want to name them on purpose, either, or otherwise — how and what will we do with those. If anything can be judged today, the domino effect is already present. Doma's effect in the sense that if the Slovenian-Austrian border actually changes from today or is said to have changed, what this means from tomorrow on the Croatian-Slovenian border. From this point of view, I believe that the domino effect is present. Probably other levers, as well as Slovenia's consistent approach to similar methods, as Austria is doing right now, we do not have, but I stress that this is not a global or comprehensive solution, and it is likely that a number of issues will be more difficult in the coming months or years because of the present, such partial work. I would just like to stress that it would be right to repeat today, even though we are not taking a decision, to send our government at least a message that we should be even more anxious to see a common European solution. I know that this is probably not the most decisive Slovenian voice, but I think it is our duty to point out this. That's what we have to keep in mind. I must honestly admit that those solutions that Mr Prime Minister sent yesterday evening on the central television show are largely acceptable, perhaps more needs to be done now on the side where we are talking about the return of migrant surpluses, but in general this issue remains. If we do not all succeed in taking this step forward together so that the highest European policy makers can come together on the most important issues, I am afraid that we will not be talking about losing the Schengen area for a few months, but unfortunately we will be able to talk about some much sadder event. I say it out loud, I'm afraid for this Europe. This Europe has done a great deal in the last 25 years, and even in the last 10 years, to ensure that the conditions of residence, that nationalities will also be problems, because there are many countries in this area where this more free Europe has taken a step forward in this area, so that all these issues will unfortunately be raised and the European value in the sense that we all imagined and wanted in the past can unfortunately be forgotten. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. For the third time, I stress my basic message that we are trying to send a clear message through the Slovenian Government to European leaders, that the water is already in the throat, that there is no step to wait, and that the most important joint action must be made. As long as this is not the case, I take such decisions to consistently, in this case at the Slovenian-Croatian border, control the arrival of everyone who wants to come to a place north of the Slovenian-Croatian border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I will focus mainly on some responses to the lack of cooperation between the Government and the ministries with local communities and on current issues or on current developments today at the border with Austria, as already discussed by my colleague Vrtovac. Of the 420 thousand migrants who entered and left Slovenia, 182 thousand 431 migrants crossed the border in Shentyl. In October 2015 Šentilj’s share in leaving Slovenia was 84% and in November 50%, and in December 13%, due to the renewal of the centre on the other hand, i.e. on the Austrian side of the border. There were very few crossings this January or the last 14 days. This means that, in fact, 50 % of all migrants who have come to Slovenia have left the country together. So the fact is that the congregation and the locals have been dealing with this problem since the beginning. Perhaps their words, which speak of what the relationship was like in all this time, are also true. The good cooperation of both the mayor and representatives of the municipality with individual ministries, the police, all NGOs, especially Karitas and the Red Cross, and the relevant joint actions have allowed for the normalization of the lives of people in and around the place from the beginning. The local communities inform the Government of the current situation. There was also a meeting with the mayors at the Ministry of the Interior yesterday where they received all the necessary information and answers to questions. I do not understand now, my colleague Dobovšek, who claimed otherwise, simply does not. The government also responded to the current needs in the place itself. In the case of Šentil, I would point out two such measures, which, as I said before, have normalized life in the village itself or the place. So it's about setting up a temporary station that I've already talked about in this choir. Another very important thing was the reopening of the old Šentilj border crossing. The Austrian security authorities, due to a large number of refugees, then crossed the border on a daily basis of about 10,000, closing the old border crossing on 19 October. This has caused great overcrowding to the locals, to all those who have been employed and who are still employed in Austria, but, of course, here the biggest economic damage has been suffered by economic operators right at this border or at the border crossing that somehow lived directly from Austrian visitors. With the help of local communities and state authorities, the border crossing was opened 29. 12th, and they hope he stays. The border crossing is actually ongoing. There is no stricter or additional control. This is one fact that speaks of the fact that somehow the Schengen border in this area is normal, that it is true that today we cannot talk about any closure or anything. After the opening of the old border crossing, things had improved, so life had actually returned to some old rails. The Ministry of Economy has also responded to this problem, i.e. some economic damage, and has given initiatives for the first assessment of this damage and, of course, will continue to act accordingly. For economic operators have assessed the damage themselves and, therefore, the Ministry of the Economy has given an opinion with reservations, as there is actually a need to have some common criteria for determining this damage. Yesterday, on my visit to the accommodation centre, the head of the accommodation centre in Šentilj spoke of a group of migrants coming to the border crossing area today to bring them and the Austrians will try a new system of crossing the border. This is another evidence that the authorities are aware of the events. What happened today — at 13.59 p.m. on STA — was known by the authorities at the box office. They knew what was going to happen and what was going to happen. I would also like to respond to some of the claims made by my fellow Vrtovac. The message from the U.S.A. says that if these refugees apply for asylum in Austria or Germany, they will mostly be able to travel on if they do not, they will have to return. But we know that these refugees are mainly in Germany and, of course, also in Austria, so they will probably apply for asylum. How and what will happen next is a matter of agreement. I would also like to read this: "The new system will try to implement it in the coming days and address possible shortcomings. So far, up to 500 refugees are expected to receive daily, and by the end of the month, they are expected to gradually increase their numbers. In the final phase, foreseen in February, they should be able to deal with up to 10,000 refugees a day." About possible return – no one has been rejected here since this notice. They will discuss possible return with the Slovenian authorities as a matter of fact. It is certainly a fact that politics is responding in Slovenia. That's something we have an influence on. But there are things we've been talking about all the time that we just can't influence ourselves. Perhaps just the last thing I would like to point out is that it is essential that Austria and Germany inform their refugee policy in a timely manner and that Slovenia does not adequately prepare itself for this, but responds. I'm sure she's already got her answers, or scenarios, how and what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mr Dusan Radič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished ministers and ministers! At the beginning, when the views of the members of the groups were presented, the SMC's amazing parliamentary positions and Desus's, which mainly concern why we are talking about this today, because we are six times already, and nothing has happened since all things are fine and so on. For the first time since the situation is changing from day to day, this is why we are talking. Secondly, because we do not appear to be sufficiently well or uniformly informed or, above all, we are not satisfied with the measures taken by this government, what is actually going on in this area. Thirdly, what I think is most important right now is that Parliament or the National Assembly is the place where this is to be discussed. It's an exclusive National Assembly. If someone doesn't admit it, then I can't admit that they're representing a democratic position. It would be very bad to talk about it in other places, and then there would be a lot of places for xenophobia and populism. As a result, the views of the parliamentary groups, which say that there is no need to talk about this, are worrying about my notions. Secondly, I would like to say that it is likely that the whole of Europe is running out of time today, which is why different politicians in different places are already predicting a time frame by which to resolve the so-called Schengen border in Greece. I do not believe that it will be resolved – it will probably be more said by the Foreign Minister – if until today the issue of the border crossing between Turkey and Greece has not been resolved, even though we know that Greece can do this on its own, especially in terms of what fleet it actually has. But as it turns out, there is no desire, and therefore, for a long time, the question of how it will be established, if it will be established, Frontex at this time. If it does, it's very good, but the question is, why isn't it already? I think there's too much opposition here. Secondly, of course, I am interested in the Government's position in view of the last events in Austria. The position was that the government would react proportionally. I expect ministers or ministers to tell these measures today, what this means in proportion, to inform the Slovenian public about this, and what it means now is that Austria will adopt some less than 130 000 asylum seekers by mid-2019. That is why I really expect an answer to what will happen now at the southern border. I think that this should actually be prepared in advance, especially because I cannot agree here that the Austrians will just take everything and so on, because if you read this news that my predecessor was talking about, it also goes on to say that the Austrians will reject people if it is an incorrect identity, if it is a fake document, if they come up with a forged document, they will misrepresented themselves, or if it poses a security risk to Austria. You forgot to say that. This means that I do not believe that all migrants waiting today in Syria, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq or anywhere will come to Slovenia with the right document and so on. They are not now, and it was a mistake that they did not come today and that Slovenia accepted them without checking the identity without checking the documents, without actually checking all the data that is in line with Schengen, and this has not actually happened. Now I also expect what the Government will do to ensure a permanent transition, but I will now say, Slovenian daily migrants working in Austria. There are 15 to 20 thousand in Austria, some going there weekly, most going to Graz every day. How will they be taken care of, for the oppression at the border is foretold? What's going to happen to the truck? What was the damage to the economy? What's actually going to happen here? Does Slovenia intend to establish, build or whatever the so-called migrant centres are? If you're going anywhere, tell me where you're going. And where is the limit, how many migrants or how many asylum seekers will Slovenia actually accept? They mentioned different numbers in public, up to 50,000. Read it, and I can tell you, I'm not doing any commercials for any magazines where they say it. Just tell me. That's all it is. Tell me, because there is no strategy here today, not a simple policy, what will actually happen to it. For this reason, I expect the Government to familiarise itself – not only with us, but the entire Slovenian public – with these and many other measures, including what will be done on our southern border with Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Radič has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start with tighter controls on the northern Slovenian border. Because, as Prekmurci would say, "unsurpassed Tomaž", I do not believe in anything that I do not see through my own eyes, so after alarmingly stating that every Slovenian who comes to the Austrian border must turn off the car, identify and show the trunk, on purpose at home in my Prekmurje drove through Austria to check what was with these tighter controls. I crossed the border at the Bad Radkersburg border crossing – Upper Radgona. I was all scared on the Slovenian side of my wallet, taking my ID card, realizing that I would now be expected on the other side of the Austrian Special Forces. But what? It happened that two Austrian police officers slept there in an old container and showed us all, a little older, a familiar movement like this. [[Swing if you can move on]] . Because I did not trust my eyes, I went to another border crossing, which is two miles [3 km] away, and these are the Gederovites — Sicheldorf. I was even more surprised there. And there was no one there. Only the duty free shop worked on the Slovenian website. Maybe the Austrians forgot they had a border crossing with Slovenia. However, I am convinced that out of the 2 million 40,000 Slovenians, more than 2 million have not seen a migrant live, let alone at a Ljubljana or Maribor train station. Above all, in my speech, I would like to thank all non-governmental organisations that have unselfishly stepped in to help at the time of the largest migration of migrants. The Red Cross of Slovenia, the Slovenian Karitas, the Association of Slovenian Catholic Scouts and Scouts, the Union of Camporniks of Slovenia and the Gasilska Association of Slovenia were included in the activities of logistics provision of accommodation and reception centres and the provision of humanitarian assistance through civil protection. Thank you all very much for all that they have done for the successful management of the migrant problem. Local communities were also actively involved in the supply of migrants to reception and accommodation centres, especially at a time when the Republic of Croatia closed the border and the migrants arrived massively in Slovenia also outside border crossings. The municipalities have participated in the search for suitable accommodation facilities, the provision of temporary rooms for the registration of migrants, representatives of the local community are members of reception and accommodation centres and are involved in the reception and care activities of migrants. As early as early as November, a letter from the Director General of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue agreed on how the eligible costs would be reimbursed would result from the regulation of the migration problem. Since we all like to read this news on the Internet and then post it, from 12 am and 18 minutes is the hermetically closed border of Greece – Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Koleša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! When I thought about what I would say on this subject today, not because we are six times already on this subject, not to talk about committee meetings and even the National Assembly, it is somehow too much to repeat how the Government works, how civil society works beautifully, if I may say so. In this context, of course, the military is also doing its job, in the beginning we had a bit of a problem with this in what way, but still. That is why I simply decided to take back the aspect of this political debate, which is eminent to the National Assembly, and to say the following. Of course, this move is not such a simple matter. Human migration is always an expression of some serious economic or other problems. In this case, there is a major economic imbalance in the world, unlike the developed and the underdeveloped, with the developing world exploiting the undeveloped. In this case, we are talking about the Middle East, Orient and North Africa. The consequences of moving are, of course, unpredictable, and I must repeat this. What will be the solution and how the world or Europe will end up with this is not clear to us. I don't think anyone in Europe is clear either. But a global solution would be the restructuring of the global economy, so that industry would not move to underdeveloped areas. In this area where war is now, this industry is not going anywhere, but it is coming to developed areas. This industry, this developed part of the world, is simply about displaced people, or those fleeing war, or those who want to be freed economically. That too is the problem of large arms, when the world develops – and I will not now say that only the United States, but – – is simply arming both sides in a certain country. When this land, which is poor or where the rich are very few and the poor are extremely large, war is what causes this wave of people to flee. Now home. I see this debate, which is repeated so many times, in a completely different light. I associate it with many extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, as well as committees, and I think that this is an opportunity for the Slovenian Democratic Party to come or diversify the foundations of the current social authority and lay the foundations for coming to power. It is legitimate, it is democratic, but of course it is necessary to be realistic in this respect. So in this I see the majority or more important reason for today's debate, because, as we say, we have already talked about this problem many times, and there is no real need at this point, given that the government is functioning normally. In 2004, some thought that it was a funeral or that it was terrible when the LDS was defeated in the elections and of course the SDS won the elections, but I said that good, but if the LDS can't do some sort of order in the country, the minimum order – we have big problems that started before but didn't manage them – and then just let this new government of SDS settle the situation, maybe in a slightly less democratic way, but we needed it in some way. But in four years, of course, it turned out that the government didn't do it. She made a lot of promises, and then every day, she gave up on the whole line, and she didn't do everything she promised. In the end, she lost power. Now he's trying to regain these positions. At that time her great "deservation" was also this so-called bank balloon, which grew, increased and increased until immediately after their loss of power of course also broke. That is why I understand this debate, I accept it, of course we listen to it, but I accept it in this light. That is why, of course, I end by simply thinking that we have the Government, that the Government is working. Since the beginning we have said that it must work humanely, from the beginning we have said that it must work also in terms of security guaranteed for the inhabitants of Slovenia and of course for immigrants, but everything else is, of course, the details for which the Government has powers by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u50	Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister and Minister and dear colleagues! When we are talking about the migration crisis at meetings of the National Assembly like this – I will talk about the migrant problem, that no one will be hurt by the ear – I cannot help but wonder what more Members can do about this issue or what we can contribute to the solutions ourselves. For I am firmly convinced that our government, our President and the ministries are very responsibly faced with the greatest challenge of our time. I will not complain if our opposition Members impose on us some of those topics with the same proposals. On the contrary, I will say that this topic is welcome, especially welcome, that we can also tell our citizens that we have, thank God, a team that we have people, so we have a government that is in this crisis of incredible proportions, but it is a piece. That is my opinion, I think I can say it and that I can also justify it with some things. True, over 400,000 refugees passed our homeland within a few months. Let us ask, honestly and honestly, how much price we have paid for this. Okay, there's a huge price for someone, too, because he couldn't send the kids to school alone for three days, and for another, that the refugees were leaving enormous amounts of waste behind them, for that volcanoer near Brežič, too, that he had a loss of income. But, dear colleagues, do you feel that this vast crowd of people has threatened you in your other life, that you will now be targeted by some terrorists, sexual attackers, and some black thugs? If you answer yes, of course you are not sincere or are a believer in those who want you to be afraid. For in fear it is exceedingly easy to manipulate men. But this does not mean that the situation is, of course, simple and simply manageable; here the proponents of these many meetings in the past must, of course, be given the right one. But what is it that we're all really worried about? Not whether we will comply consistently with the Schengen border or give priority to human rights, as we say, to European civilisation rules. Not whether we've set up the right fence or the right place. No, the biggest problem in this country is that we have no European response. We don't have her answers on what to do with thousands or millions of migrants or refugees. The problem that we can really be concerned about is the European migrant policy, which is not, which is ineffective, not to say catastrophic. But if you want to admit it or not, it is currently the only pro-active country in this European migration chaos, Slovenia, not the Netherlands, which is the Presidency of the European Union. You could tell 100 more times what the government and all of us, at least coalition partners, what our opinion is and what the actual situation is about the mini-scheng. But Mr. Horvath will give us a heads-up on the 101st. We say one thing, some listen, some repeat the same thing. The Prime Minister's proposal to jointly address the migration crisis is being studied today by all the Brussels institutions and governments of the Member States of the European Union and the Member States on the Western Balkan path. Their views on the need for all European countries to send police units to Greece with a view to securing the external borders of the European Union and the proposal to stop irregular migration on the Macedonian - Greek borders are currently the only operational proposals that any Member State of the European Union has ever made or contributed to a set of solutions to limiting migration flows. So we have the Government, we have the Ministry of the Interior, we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which European leaders recognize as extremely cooperative. We are a country in Europe that is taking the initiative. A country that is an equal and reliable interlocutor and a stable political partner. Of course, the opposition, many media and others in good old-fashioned Slovenian manner want to spit in their own bowl and let us all know that this is not the case. Okay, but judge political wisdom. They even say we put the whole wire on Brussels' proposal. If that were the case, at least we would have hope that Brussels has some kind of policy, whatever it is. The one with the barbed wire is therefore a policy. Unfortunately, that was not the case either. Although we are so intensely engaged in this crisis and are doing what Slovenia is doing, it has not yet been said that we are very, very close to a solution to the crisis. Unfortunately not. But Dr. Miro Cerar, when he represented all the efforts and international activities of the country, said that if Europe accepted this challenge and successfully endured it, it would stand and become significantly stronger, otherwise it would not. That's a fact. According to the mythological story, God Zeus kidnapped Europe. With a trick, in the transformation of a meek bull and then a handsome young man. Are we going to let someone take her away from us today? But let me conclude more optimistically. Many people like to resort to different articles in good and bad, or I do not have these habits myself, but I have heard the best or read the best sentence that has brought them into my drawers lately. Pessimism has never brought progress and a solution to the problem, so Slovenian policy has no other option than to fight in Brussels for itself and for all of us. I am sure, dear colleagues and colleagues, that our policy is aware of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u52	Madam Vice-President, Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! I am very well aware of the situation we are facing both in Slovenia and in the wider European community, and it will certainly not be resolved very quickly. All of us were overwhelmed by fear, which could also be the greatest enemy of society and the future. Fear that can gain a lot of power in a negative sense if we remember history. It is true that the subject we are talking about today is very sensitive because we are talking about people. We're talking about people who got into a lot of trouble when they left their homes, their possessions, and they went to meet. When I met with migrants at the housing center, I met children, women, mothers, elderly and tired people. My heart was breaking with children who were not really aware of the situation they were in. They hardly understand why they had to leave their warm homes, their soft beds. Although their parents explain the situation in their country, there is still a great question in their children’s heads. They know what they have experienced in their long journey toward us — many colds, rains, and famines. When the big eyes look back on you after the answer, I shudder about how to help. I couldn't get past without thinking about our kids and grandchildren. What if something like this happens to them? Someone's gonna take them, give them a hand, help them? Although the people, the refugees, have expressed themselves positively about our assistance and have said that they are pleased to be here where there is no war and are safe from bombs and fire, they expect only acceptance, goodwill and basic care, and above all understanding. Dear colleagues, let us be aware that these people want and want to live in peace and that our country is not their dream state, but they want to move on. As a human society, we will allow them to move forward as easily as possible in this short period of time. It is true that there are also bad people, economic migrants, those who benefit from this migratory flow. There's always a risk. But, given the European rules on identification, registration and registration, we will certainly be able to identify such people and act. In order for us to succeed, we must not throw all people into the same basket with an omen of faith, of color, of sex, but we must always ensure that everyone proves to be trustworthy and integrates himself into the society he wants to join. True, as a nation, we are obliged to protect our people, our wealth, and our security. For this reason, an uncontrolled and scattered crossing across the state border has been placed at the borders of a temporary technical obstacle. So let fear not prevail, but reason. In the event that our neighbours close borders for refugees, migrants, we need certainly wider support from Europe and neighbouring countries, as we are aware that our country cannot accept and supply a larger migratory wave and longer accommodation. We therefore need to establish effective control at the external Schengen border. Dearly beloved, I want every man, white, black, large, small, poor or rich, to have his place under the sun of this planet in the future. As a social democrat, I call on us not to lose our heads and our judgment to preserve our hearts, optimism, our minds and our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. I hope that after two fairy tales we will return to the reality of January 2016 in Slovenia. We have previously heard stories that currently the only truly proactive country in this European migration chaos is Slovenia. I think that in Brussels we would probably be a little dismayed over this statement, and then we would say: Ah, again this Slovenia. Then the fairy tale continues and says, "We are in Europe a country that takes the initiative." This initiative is such that we will eventually become a migrant pocket, but when the opposition makes proposals and initiatives, it is rejected by the left hand, and when the same opposition asks, we experience the silence of the body. Unfortunately, if we look at the story about migrants, we can only remember in September and October of this year when the Slovenian Democratic Party spoke about migrants and not refugees, there was a disturbance as to how this is demagogic. Today we're saying that maybe there's a fugitive out there. But before that, my colleague Grims explained what refugee status means, and they're not actually there. When we talked about technical obstacles that we must protect our borders, this government did even more stupid things. She set up the barbed wires. Last time I was in one of the laws, I was saying that apparently this government was too slow to grasp and listen, and then it did much worse than she had heard. I'll start with one thing. This government is talking about how it works proactively and takes the initiative. For the past three months, we have been listening to examples of individual countries changing legislation in this area. Let's look at the Government's 2016 Normative Work Programme and the same for 2017. The Ministry of the Interior – although by the end of 2016 there would have been a new amendment to the State Border Control Act, but at the end of 2016, it is also a question of whether there will be anything in relation to the migration crisis. Ministry of Defence – nothing. It's supposed to be the Defence Act, but I believe it has absolutely nothing to do with the migrant crisis. So much for this proactive part of the only country to take the initiative. But on the other hand, when you have proposals from the opposition for laws, you reject them if you come with better laws. But you don't even have these laws in the Government's work programme. The classic story of this government — many words and no action. More! We don't even get the answer to what we're asking. I asked questions about buying a wire fence because I think it is right that the Slovenian public knows what and how it is happening. And what did I get? That, in accordance with the Secret Data Act, which provides that classified information may be determined in such a way as to create harmful consequences for the security of the State, the authorised persons may lay down data relating to the purchase of the cable fence for secret purposes. How would we undermine the country's security of sovereignty if we found out whether it cost 5 euros per metre, 50 euros or 500 euros per metre? What would our safety be like? It is true, however, that the safety of any SMC client of the related company that purchased or is supposed to acquire this fence is likely to be compromised. But the Slovenian public must not be aware of this. So much for how many questions we get answers. In recent days, the issue of accommodation centres is being raised. I'm being asked in Posavje whether the accommodation center in Dobova will really spread. Some people ask me what's going to happen in Kočev. We know what's actually going on on Kidric. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, I would like to know how many accommodation centres the Government intends to set and what will be the actual cost of installing these accommodation centres? In short, I won't be too long, everything happens to post-festums, you do everything your own way, you don't want to listen, but you talk about how to cooperate. But you're rejecting everything. The easiest thing, of course, is to put your head in the sand, spend four years in power and think; Ah, the public will already survive, we will do something new two months before the elections, but the opposition is just so that it asks some lame questions. Then we hear stories that currently the only truly proactive country in this European migration chaos is Slovenia. But why is what is happening in Italy, Germany, Austria? Because everything is afraid that we actually have no idea what the Schengen is and why we should defend it. I was really appalled when the Minister of the Interior refused to cooperate with Austria and Germany in this area, but then referred to the fact that she did not understand at all the question whether it was a matter of registration or whether it was a matter of control. Once again, I ask how many accommodations and when, on the other hand, how many foreign soldiers and police officers help Slovenia solve the migration crisis. The countries of the Visegraj Group have taken the initiative to talk about how much Mr Cerar should "make up" or agree on how many will come. Once the government has answered, I'll find out how many hundreds of Czechs and all the other soldiers and police will come. I wonder if it's another fairy tale of this government or if you might have found some foreign soldier and a police officer who's actually helping us out where you don't know how to do your homework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am following with interest the debate by my colleagues from SDS, which is sometimes quite interesting. In particular, when they so intensively interfere with the internal political situation in Germany, they account for me in the manner of real cannibals with their own brothers who run the government in Germany and with whom they are together at European level in the same party. This is certainly a fine sight and an example of exemplary cooperation with ideologically equal thinkers. On the other hand, although the Slovenian Government does not belong to the European People's Party, it cooperates intensively with the German Conservative Government. On the other hand, instead of seeing the solution in cooperation with Germany, the SDS suggests that we stay close to the Visegraj Group, so that we can be saved from all evil. This is again somewhat unusual, since the countries of this group for refugee flows are neither targeted nor transitive. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore working towards close and coordinated cooperation with all countries that are relevant on this refugee path or are the ultimate goal of this route. At the same time, it is putting forward great efforts and constructive proposals for uniform positions on the appropriate protection of the external borders, a place for joint registration that will be closer to the height of the crisis or the external Schengen border, and not least for uniform criteria as to who, between refugees and migrants, is entitled to be released to where it wants to be, that is, north of Europe, and who needs to be returned. This is also witnessed by a recent letter from the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to European leaders. The SDS on the other hand stems from the excused thesis: Schengen has fallen, get rid of whoever can. But the example is, of course, the Orban recipe, in the sense of building a solid walled fence, accept only those who have all the papers and ask for asylum with you, and tell others to find themselves, as they know, and seek ways where fate takes them. According to Mr Gorenak, the Slovenian government has illegally released 400,000 migrants, and that is why someone will have to answer, although no one has heard of this obvious Slovenia, by any European country so far, no one has been able to see Slovenia in Europe. According to this logic, Mr Gorenak could also have been accused by Hungary for releasing 996 thousand 474 migrants or refugees, when she put them in Germany through her territory until she built the fence until last summer. It would probably be good to expect, or it would be appropriate, if Mr Gorenak, like his patriotic attack on his own country, failed to attack Hungary as harshly for this ugly diversion as he understands it and is called allowing migrants and refugees to move to Germany, which he has finally invited there. As the Minister has already said, the Schengen regime has not been set up for this situation and the European Union, so now all countries involved must find a common solution to the refugee crisis or the treatment of refugees and migrants. With all the other world countries, in particular the superpowers, the European Union must find a solution to the root causes of the refugee crisis. The Slovenian government is following a balanced approach that is only possible in the face of a complex crisis such as a refugee with trans-continental dimensions. The core of this crisis is the humanitarian component, and the security dimension is also very important. The SDS only emphasises the security aspect. He does not see the misery of refugees who save their lives from war, but he sees only lazy migrants who want to enjoy the social transfers of a rich Europe. All he talks about are terrorists who hide behind women and children in order to sneak in and destroy Christianity with their faith and customs, and he points out that for example some refugees or migrants have a lot of money, modern mobile phones, and he also sees the phenomenon of overdressed people among them and so on. In the entire outbreak of the refugee crisis, he wants to see mainly the dark conspiracy of Muslim extremists who wanted to Islamise Europe. On the other hand – unfortunately there are no colleagues from the United Left – we have a position which emphasises that the temporary fence at the southern border is inhuman, unnecessary, harmful, restricting the local population, endangering animals and local tourism and so on. The views of the United Left therefore highlight only the humanitarian aspect and the rights of refugees and migrants and the local population, which is unfortunately shortsighted. We can all remember how Croatia has purposely sent refugees across the green border, past the expected official entry points. Especially in these days should this be borne in mind. When the border is closed in the north and at the unprotected southern border, some 10,000 migrants and refugees can enter the interior of Slovenia. They would then seek refuge, food and passage north across the country, and this would be a security problem for them and for the citizens of Slovenia, as there would be considerable opportunities for fear, excesses, misunderstandings, riots and unnecessary tragic episodes. So the fence is not where it is now, so much because of the refugees, but more because of the negative practices of the southern neighbour, as it turned out in the fall in many cases. Let us remember only the fear and bitterness of the inhabitants of Haloza and in the area of Brežič, when the trumpets of men were broken in their fields and through their settlements. Similar scenes could occur throughout the country if refugees in the crowds entered it uncontrollably. But here the possibility of a sober judgment of left-wingers is unfortunately running out. They simply do not recognize or deliberately overlook these options. If I conclude, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the criticism from the left and right, responds gradually and proportionately in accordance with the developments. It is necessary to maintain sensitivity and intensive communication with all countries of the European Union and the Balkans and to step up existing measures and adopt new ones when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and Minister, Secretary of State! Today we talk a lot, a lot of words are spoken, and this demagogic and demagogic words, we can say manipulation or hypocrisy, however, go very quickly and very easily into the ears at this time. Why am I saying this? Because we always have two sides that show each other their own side. Unfortunately, they are increasingly extreme, unfortunately, at a time when we should be sober and calm, things are becoming more tense. Let me tell you some of the things I've been thinking about this time. Firstly, this migration crisis was not produced by Slovenia. Secondly, this matter is bigger than Slovenia and even bigger than Europe, which, unfortunately, is not a match. That the darkness is serious and difficult, we all know what we are in the National Assembly and elsewhere. Slovenia has limited resources and has to act optimally and rationally because of these limited resources, which means to act gradually and with some increase in preparedness, which is also evident. The issue of the migrant crisis is changing daily, not according to some of the rules that have been escaped, but entirely in its own way, and it is moving from within. We don't have chaos, we need to find out and deal with it. Why am I saying this? Because the vast majority of the population in Slovenia did not feel this, except in those truly extreme places such as Brežice, Dobova and Šentilj. The next thing you have to say clearly and loudly is that things work for us. In particular, the Ministry of the Interior has control over this matter, the Ministry of Defence carries out its functions, civil protection carries out its functions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works in foreign information and contacts in bilateral and also in the direction of European affairs. Last but not least, when we talk about this, it is important to say that in these important matters, the media should also approach constructive steps and we, politicians, should calm the situation, without making any complacency, but should somehow be guided constructively. As Mr Pojbič would say, we should step together and really calm the citizens. Now we're always in some kind of crossroads. Some of us would like to take these fugitives forward very quickly. Some people would like to have a thorough check-up. Some would like to have a fence, others would be against it. Some would like to help the refugees. Others are against it. Some people want us to put them in accommodation centers. Others are against. Some say the problems these refugees have caused, others say how cooperative these refugees are. Some feel threatened, others talk to them and associate with them. So we always have these two ambivalent issues. Finding out who to understand here and how to act this way is very difficult. However, I think and I trust that the Government is working responsibly and is taking measures that are necessary, proportionate and progressive in these situations. If I return to certain questions raised in the debate. We have a circus of 187 foreign police officers from 11 countries. How much do these migrants or refugees get? They receive €18 per month and €117 as a one-time aid, not some of the significantly larger numbers that Mr Gorenak was talking about. Finally, I must say that cooperation between the MORS and the MNZ is working, the military is doing its work, the military is doing its work where it has been agreed, particularly in logistics and in support of all these police units. Here, too, it is important to note the important role of the MZZ, which we sometimes forget or overlook. If you have gone online, you have also seen that Serbia has also begun to limit the influx of these migrants. Even on the basis that Minister Erjavec was at these talks and all of these activities, which were such a ministry when she held meetings with internal ministers, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, lead to the fact that the work is truly proactive and that the situation is being calmed down and then some action appears. It is clear, however, that Europe is not following this as it should. So we support the government, and I think it's doing well for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. This sounds good in theory until, of course, we face practice. But the practice is slightly different, as you describe it, because things have changed significantly, and I'm afraid the government won't want to see it for a while. How have they changed in practice? Sometimes a picture says more than a thousand words. What I have before me is from Klein Zeitung, a respected Austrian newspaper, a scheme of their new reception center in Spielfeld. Here, as you can see, is the state border, on this side is Slovenia, on this side is Austria. Here come the illegal migrants, enter Austria and then travel, as you can see, here to the checkpoints. And you won't believe all these red arrows go back to Slovenia. Is it clear to everyone what this means? Now connect this to what I had previously pointed out and it was also published on the website of Slovenian RTV, that in Austria experts fear that straws of illegal migrants – obviously those they will reject – will occur on the Slovenian side and that this will pose a lasting security threat to the Republic of Austria. What will that mean for Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen? Do you understand? That is why I would have a question for the Minister, who today has turned into almost monastery silence. I would ask her how many such migrants we can expect, because I say there should be none. If we were to adopt our conclusions, if we were to do so, if only we were to implement the principles of the rule of law, consistently and fully, there would be no one. But based on this sketch, we can expect thousands. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, how many migrants do you intend to give to the joy and joy and danger of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u62	Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At this point, I have a feeling that our present ministers are incompetent. Why? They do not answer the questions, but you, members of the coalition, 100 per cent defend and explain what individual ministers do in individual departments. You, too, coalition Members, should ask for clear answers, because in the end you will also be giving answers to the citizens. It is right that the debate is because we are concerned that citizens are concerned, and it is right that our government is actively looking for answers to all the problems that we have and that we will have in the future. That this is a serious problem, we all know. Citizens fear that, too, so they ask us what we will do. And they need a clear answer. This is what I expect from our ministers, not that coalition Members explain what our ministers are doing. What must this government do? Certainly protect Slovenian citizens first, even with obstacles or barriers. I do not want them, but because the European Union does not make a common solution and protects external borders, there are internal borders that no one wants. So first, to protect citizens, our territory, our borders, and then to pressure all European institutions to do their job. I do not accept the argument that they do not know how to do this in Brussels. We have a Vice-President of the European Commission coming from your party, strongly demand that the European Commission push for solutions. It also gave the Dutch Presidency one of the priorities for the resolution of the external borders of the European Union. I am very interested in what our ministers represent on the European Council. What are you asking, what are you saying? So the clear, decisive policy of the European Union, the protection of external borders, we must seek a lasting solution. Given that countries in the Middle East and North Africa are falling apart, this pressure will increase. This is not what we want, so we need permanent solutions and European borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much. More than half of the debate on this agenda item has passed, and neither of the ministers who have been here nor the Secretary of State has raised a hand to answer any question, thought, proposal or anything else. The minister likes to say that the government has answers to all the scenarios. Here is one of the scenarios shown by Mr Grims, and we expect a response to this scenario. If you have developed answers to all the scenarios, we need, we need, we expect this answer immediately, immediately. There is no need to transfer documentation to search for information anywhere, but we expect an answer right now. I propose, Madam Vice-President, that you invite the Minister to answer and explain what and what is the solution to this scenario that Mr Grims has just presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The Ministry has declared time, it will apply when it suits them. Now we proceed with the session. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, get Mrs. Nada Brinovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As far as government policy is concerned, it is focused on a comprehensive and common solution based on the values of the European Union. The values of the European Union are, on the one hand, security and humanitarianism. That is why I say – that is also what the Members of the SMC say and the Government also advocates – that these values can coexist. We have two diametric opposites in our Parliament. One that advocates exclusively security or to a large extent security, the other that is largely humanitarian, but these two components and these two values can coexist. You also say that we do not follow the opposition's proposals. That's not true. It is only that the Government must take appropriate action at a given time. It is therefore a matter of stepping up measures in the light of the situation and of how the practices are changing. With regard to current practices and developments that have changed, the Government has always responded. She also gave all the answers to the last Committee on Home Affairs. It is true that a new situation has arisen today, and I am sure that it will also give an answer. What is the importance of this enlarging so that we do not act too quickly? We must be aware that each measure taken entails an additional risk. We must also be aware that we are part of some common union, of the European Union, of some integration in which we must respect others, and at the same time we must not act too quickly to endanger our citizens, as has happened to some other European Union countries. We never say we did it ourselves. Of course, this has also been largely done by NGOs, local communities and everyone else, and the fact is that without active political activities, both domestic and foreign, in which there is very much quiet diplomacy, there would certainly not be a situation that is of course worrying, but in no case are our citizens at risk at this time. We cannot therefore afford an open door policy entirely because we do not have the resources, as has already been said, and, of course, we must adapt our actions to this. Let me explain. We are always wondering what will happen to our Slovenia, whether Slovenia will become a pocket or we will protect our people. We mix two things up here all the time. One is the return, the other is the rejection. Here let me make it clear that return is regulated in the Dublin Regulation, and with this Regulation Europe has the most problems, because on its basis we can only accept back those persons who have applied for asylum and have continued their journey. Such persons are maximum 150 in Slovenia. The media report that the Government is looking for accommodation centres where it will reside, and in this direction questions are also going to go to the proposer where these accommodation centres will be located, as it is supposed to be people who will put our people at risk. So it's about 150 people that we owe them. We're not obliged to accept anyone else. As regards the question of capacity, it was also said on the committee itself that we have 15 reception centres and 6 accommodation centres. As far as rejection is concerned, we were the first to start rejecting — the first to reject Moroccan citizens — and thus slowed the flow. Remember, we had 12,000 refugees or migrants a day, today about a thousand, 940, as much as Austria is willing to accept every day. If we're talking about numbers, now I'm just speaking hypothetically, probably the minister will say that, and 375 thousand will be accepted by Austria in 2016. That means about a thousand a day. As far as this additional rejection is concerned, we should not become the pockets and these measures, or the assistance of Austria and Germany, which should be rejected. The secretary said she'd make me a hot spot in this case. We know what that would mean. Anyone who enters our territory could stay with us, and we can't afford that. In this case, we would really endanger our country. Let me answer two more questions that have been mentioned, namely, that the same colleague in one breath said that we were ready to accept all the hungry and thirsty people who wanted to come to Slovenia and, on the other hand, the 18 euros fell on the day that these people get, too. I am talking about the Law on International Protection, which is our asylum policy. Our asylum policy is based on the Geneva Convention, which sets minimum standards together with the Protocol, which are the minimum standards that we are obliged to provide to asylum seekers or refugees whose status is recognised. Slovenia had one of the strictest policies concerning the allocation of material conditions and the monetary rate. Of course, the other European countries have been downgrading this because they have been extremely generous. Our marriage is not more generous than our previous marriage, but it simplifies procedures. This is the key to what is regulated in this law. As far as the proposal you tabled and rejected was concerned, it was rejected mainly because it was contrary to international rules. It was also said by the representative of the United Left that Slovenia and the Government have not yet made an official statement to the hate speech and have not been persecuted. Let me tell you, I have some fresh information here from the Ministry of Justice and the police. Police, together with the Faculty of Social Sciences, on the basis of the Web Eye project, deal with all the hate speech that has been reported, as well as what they perceive. They also do so with NGOs. In particular, last year there were such violations of 65 in the past year 82. Since the increased migration crisis, however, three crimes have been dealt with together from October to January 19. These crimes are not directed against migrants, but mainly against Islam. The Court also dealt with 28 crimes together in 2014 and 45 crimes in 2015. All these measures show that the Government is aware of its responsibilities and that it is comprehensively addressing the problem. Of course, the situation is difficult, but it can be different from day to day. As I said in the introduction, it is necessary to step up at the right time, at the right time and with the right measure of reason. It's the government's responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u67	I'd ask nicely for peace in the hall. Mr Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Once again, please, if there is no room for anything in modern international relations, there is no room for naivety. What you're saying here today is naive enough to make a man cry. However, the problem is that things are very serious and will have such a long-term impact that, in fact, there should be no least tolerance for this. Please, when you're interpreting certain international regulations, where do you get the idea of anyone interpreting this the same way as you? Just one case. You're saying there's international rules that everyone has to get their allowance. Come on. Why, then, have all other countries recently cut off this cash payment? And they are bound by the same international rules, exactly the same. Because they're interpreting these things a little differently. Not then to teach the opposition that he doesn't understand something. Obviously, you don't understand that things have changed and that you need to react properly. Once again, I would point out that only what I say is that if we followed the principles of the rule of law, we would implement all the rules equally for everyone and consistently, then there would be no problem. Where is the rule of law here? Because then this sketch becomes the one who predicts a very bad future. These red arrows mean rejected migrants going back to the territory of Slovenia. Link this to what I have already pointed out twice that it is written that Austrian security experts point to the possibility of the emergence of slums of illegal migrants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia as a source of security threat to the Republic of Austria. But what this will mean as a security threat to Slovenia, and obviously you still don't understand. It's not your job to worry about how your image in left-wing media is going to be such a "multicultu," very nice. Your task is to ensure the safety and well-being of citizens and citizens and to protect the fundamental values on which this country is established. Madam Minister, who has turned to silence today in the monastery, I would still ask how many migrants are you actually planning on receiving as much as possible. Do we now have a Minister of Carmelite? Because he obviously does not respond and thus does not carry out his task, which speaks only of the quality of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. I would only replicate in that international rules stipulate that material conditions or, of course, flatten, so that the possibility is both one and the other. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia still has a flat-rate, which is €18 per day. Let me say that at the time of this migrant crisis, the status of four refugees has been recognised, that is, four times 18 euros a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec, spoke. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Even on my part, everyone has a nice greeting! In particular, I would like to refer to the part relating to the field of external matters, where the question was also raised as to what activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to this issue. First of all, I must say that, at the informal meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs in Luxembourg, we have already drawn attention to the issue of migration, particularly the issue of migration on the so-called Balkan route, in September. I must say that a great deal of effort has been made to put this topic on the agenda, on the initiative of the Austrian Minister and, of course, on the basis of our initiative. At the time, it was the view that the migration crisis on the Balkan route was not a European problem, but in particular the problem of the countries in which it is taking place and that the problem is that these countries do not have some historical experience with migration. In fact, that's true. If we look at the countries of the former Yugoslavia and then countries such as V4 – Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, we do not have any historical experience regarding migration. However, since the number has not decreased, our initiative to hold a meeting of Ministers for Foreign and Home Affairs in October with Ministers for Foreign and Home Affairs of the Balkans was successful. However, I must say that it has been recognized that migration is becoming a serious problem, not only for countries affected by these migrations, it is said on the Balkan path, but that this is actually a problem that affects the whole of the European Union. The main activity of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the European Union was particularly on the issue of the situation in Syria and Iraq. We know that these migrations have triggered some security crises, in particular instability in Syria since 2012, then in Libya, where there has been a breakdown of state authority and institutions. At that time, the migration wave started to grow stronger from Libya to Sicily, and then an operation of the European Union, now under the name Sofia, was launched. As far as foreign ministers are concerned, all efforts have been made in particular to find a political solution concerning Syria and Iraq. Let me say that the European Union also played an important role in this regard on 18 December – a resolution of the Security Council No. 2254, which determines the political process, how a political solution would be found for Syria. Following this resolution, a transitional Syrian government was to be established within six months and a parliamentary elections were to be held in Syria within eighteen months. Just today, the US Secretary of State Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov are talking in Zurich about a meeting to be held in Geneva on 25 January, where the opposition should also come and where this political process would begin under the auspices of the United Nations, this is said to be the establishment of a transitional government and parliamentary elections within 18 months. At the same time, I must point out that the situation in Afghanistan has also become extremely acute. You know that up to a few months ago, we thought that NATO's operation concerning Afghanistan was successful, and in recent months we note that this operation has not yet been concluded, that tensions in Afghanistan have increased, that the Taliban are once again taking the initiative and that the Afghan security forces cannot alone guarantee peace in Afghanistan. This, of course, also causes a migration wave from Afghanistan. Maybe a few words about that. In particular, they are young boys, members of the Afghan security forces who abandon these forces because of the threats of the Taliban to avenge their families and therefore desert them and cannot remain in Afghanistan, because they are being persecuted by the official Afghan authorities for desertion. This is why the number of these young Afghans is also increasing in the migration wave. I must say that an agreement between the European Union and Turkey was highly expected in this regard. You know that some decisions have been made there, from the point of speeding up visa liberalisation, but I must say that this process will be extremely demanding because certain members of the European Union are not too enthusiastic about visa liberalisation and this will also be the subject of quite arduous debate. The key problem is why the agreement between the EU and Turkey does not produce results, however, that the European Union has not yet sent or announced the funds it has promised. It was three billion euros that Turkey was supposed to receive to keep these migrants in its territory through camps. As for Slovenia, I must say that the so-called initiative of the President of the Government of Mir Cerar, who has been addressed and sent to all leaders, has been formulated, as has been said to all the Presidents of the European Union's governments and also to the Presidents of governments on the Balkan path, here I am thinking of Croatia, Serbia and Macedonia, and of course also to the President of the Commission Jean-Claude Juncker. In this regard, I have been tasked by the Prime Minister of the Government to present this initiative to the Greek Foreign Minister, the Macedonian Foreign Minister and the Serbian Foreign Minister. In Serbia, I must say that this visit took place yesterday, that I also met with the President of the Government of Vukic in addition to Foreign Minister Dačić, and that this initiative by Slovenia was very well received there. I have warned that Austria can be expected to adopt certain conclusions and that it is therefore necessary for the other countries to react appropriately so as not to have a domino effect. As you can see, today Serbia has already begun to implement certain measures at its border, and those that have read and reviewed the media can also see that certain measures have been taken at the Macedonian-Greek border. On Monday, I had talks with the Greek Foreign Minister, where I presented this initiative to President of the Government. In this initiative, the President of the Government calls for the implementation of the conclusions of the December European Council on Greece. You know that one of the important conclusions was that Frontex needs to be strengthened, that coast guard needs to be highlighted, that additional financial assistance is needed for Greece because we know what financial situation Greece is in. However, we have also agreed with the Macedonian Foreign Minister and support the initiative of the Prime Minister to take some more stringent measures at the Greek-Macedonian border. So, as far as this foreign policy is concerned, it is not just Slovenia that is not the problem here. We are actually in the middle of this migration path and, of course, it would be pretentious to expect Slovenia to be able to solve some global problem. In migrations from Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and North Africa – we see that a large number of migrants are also from Morocco and Algeria – it is not a phenomenon where only Slovenia can solve this problem by its own measures. Of course, the coordination of all countries is essential here. The problem is that the European Union as a whole, the Commission and others do not have a comprehensive policy on this issue of migration, particularly on the Balkan path. We know that we have had a similar problem with the Mediterranean migration route. With the launch of the EU NAVFOR operation, the operation of Sofia, we can see that the number of migrants arriving on the Mediterranean route is significantly reduced. But it is true that the pressure on the so-called Balkan route has increased. As far as the measures to be taken by the Austrian Government are concerned, I expect here to be a more specific Minister of the Interior, who will tell us how we will face this situation. But, as we say, tomorrow is the government's meeting. On the basis of the official message from Vienna, of course, the Government will also react appropriately, because the Government is in a position to take the same or similar measures as Austria, so that we can protect our national interest. The national interest of Slovenia is not to become a pocket. Once again, I would like to say that we have applications for asylum there at about 150 and that we cannot compare the situation in Germany or Austria, where the number of these asylum applications is essential. Of course, they can cause certain measures taken by Austria or taken by Germany, which can quickly change this picture, so the Government is also prepared with its measures to avoid such a situation. So far, so much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u74	Thank you. It was nice to hear a good government pear from a good speaker who had one small technical flaw. You know, the devil's always in the details. Mr. Secretary said we're in the middle of a migratory flow. That's right, that's right. But who put us in the middle of a migrant flow? Exactly this incompetent government because it did not want to hear that it would go along with Hungary to build a fence, in order to declare a border closure with Hungary and turn the tide elsewhere. That's why we're in the middle of this stream now, and that's why we have to deal with all these things. It was awful back then when I said that something like this had to be done. I remember being tedious. I quoted the data from the United Nations, but it was said that this was an hate speech because I was only speaking the facts, but from the United Nations. When we talked about the fence, it was: No, just technical barriers, fences, it's fascism! Who's the biggest dude in Europe today? Even the Germans see him as such. It's Orban. Who really did what he was obliged to do under his own law? Orban. You didn't do anything. You didn't do anything. You just react to others and rely on them. Even now, which is completely wrong to understand each other. That's why we're in this position. What you've been saying does not answer the red arrow we're going to get back for, and for which I've been asking the Minister of the Interior all along, how many migrants are going to put Slovenia in danger. Because that's what this is really about. For those who are rejected, believe, will not be good will. These will be the most problematic cases, and even the worst will will be because their goal is purely elsewhere. But we won't be able to force anyone to accept them back, not the home countries, not any of the neighbors, just anyone because we're too weak. And what? Then there'll be a problem. Then there's a rumor that we're going to build big centers. Come on! Can I tell you something? Just make one such center, and in the event of the smallest problem – and believe that the problem there – all Slovenian police will be too small to control the crowd in the same center, let alone if the whole species you intend to build them. You forgot that. Then who's going to ensure everyone's safety anywhere else? Who's gonna provide security at the border? We must not have any of these migrants, ladies and gentlemen, and there is only one way to get rid of this once and for all. And this is to do what you're for once. If I'm not clear, let me repeat. You are not for taking a nice picture in the media, which are left-wing, how multiculture you are, and I don't know what you are, but you are for ensuring the safety and well-being of your citizens and citizens. Do it again. This means that you only carry out one thing, namely, the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union throughout the territory with a border of value, as you know and know. And now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Jana Jenko. Here you go, Mrs. Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting to everyone here in the hall! The fact is, our government doesn't rule. This is not just my opinion, it is also the opinion of many, many citizens. Or I will say that when it comes to taking some of the measures taken by the Government and making our citizens' pockets empty even more, or even worse, our economy, we still feel the work of this government somehow. But when it comes to protecting our citizens in some way, we see that this government cannot do anything about it. Today, we have heard many times that our client has requested a meeting on this subject five or six times. Of course, we have called meetings on this subject, but all with the aim of somehow finding out what the opinion is, what the proposals are and, of course, what the actions of this government are. Unfortunately, I must say that we have listened, as has already been established today, to reports or what will not happen in Slovenia. But I have to say, look at him, everything the government has predicted will not happen has happened. If we look at some statements by government representatives in the media or newspapers, we can see that President Cerar said in August: "Slovenia is ready for the arrival of more migrants." The migrants crossed the Croatian-Slovenian border across unprotected areas, passed through forests, orchards, and the inhabitants of Rigonc were finally nervous and patient. In August of last year, the Secretary of State, Šefic, said that migrants will only cross Slovenia. Yes, but there was a difference in the number of migrants. You also said last September: "Security will be taken care of both within the centres and in the country". However, there have been beatings within the accommodation centres, the burning of tents, the places at the gas stations, and if these are for you, Mr Secretary of State, the circumstances that characterize the safe state are not for us. In September, the Prime Minister of the Government said: Slovenia has faced a great deal of refugee migration crisis and has set an example of good practice in the EU. Concerned citizens of border areas, garbage and human excrement, and of course the EU's warnings and the threat of mini Schengen, I am deeply concerned if this is a good practice for Slovenia. In January of this year, the President of the Government also said that Croatians were responsible for putting technical barriers on the table. Please, this is your assessment. That's what you're assessing. I will say that I am quite honestly afraid because the government, in its opinion on today's meeting, has written down the fear that the Republic of Slovenia will receive back all the migrants who will be rejected in the target countries is too much. In view of all the previous statements I have read and not held, I am deeply concerned that all these migrants will be given or will happen. When we drew attention to the migrant crisis on our mother's work bodies, you somehow all told us that we were going into populism. When our President, the President of our party, delivered seven measures to address these crises at the end of August, the government gave them a nice and neat lookout and, of course, Europe took them all together a little later. If I continue, the President of our Party did not attend the meeting of the National Security Council at the end of October. In a letter sent to the Council, he drew attention to all the errors of this government and made eight proposals or measures. He proposed: that Slovenia establish an operational coordination group for the control of migrant waves, following the example of the coordination group of 1991; that Slovenia establish technical options for setting up prisons at the most exposed parts of the border; that Slovenia speedily complements or implements the voluntary reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces and Police; that Slovenia immediately ensure the payment of extraordinary allowances to police officers and soldiers and other border workers who are extremely burdened by the control of migratory waves; that Slovenia ceases to plan large refugee centres for the installation of 5,000 or more people; that Slovenia ensures the unloading of the population of Brežica and other border municipalities by transferring administrative procedures into a larger number of transit assembly centres throughout the country; that Slovenia ceases to plan large refugee centres for the installation of 5,000 or more people; that Slovenia ensures that the population of Brežica and other border municipalities is subjected to the transfer of administrative procedures into a larger number of transit collection centres across the country; and that they are rapidly reduced the number of migrants entering and the number of those leaving behind them; that they are given to the priority to immediate humanitarian family and to the priority. The letter was then concluded by the president of our party with this sentence: "Let Slovenian diplomacy finally earn the money that taxpayers are making for it again." On 28 October, the President of the Government responded to this letter or suggestions at a press conference, when he considered his writing to be unconstitutional and an attempt to divide the Slovenians. I have read these eight proposals a little earlier, and now I ask you: which of these measures is unstated and which of these measures do you think the Slovenians share? This is also a question for the distinguished minister. Finally, I'm going to say this: our citizens are afraid. They fear for their safety, prosperity and, finally, for our culture as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Jana Jenko, get Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc ready. Here you go, Mrs. Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a good-bye to everyone. Europe has fallen apart, Slovenia is no longer in Schengen, the government is incompetent, in Slovenia there is chaos, we put our heads in the sand and wait for four years to pass. These are all your words. I'll just answer the last one. But you were wasting your time in high-headed rule by handing out loans to a tycoon. But it's true that migrants and refugees are here, they've come, a large number has crossed our country, and they haven't stayed here. At first we were a little confused when Hungary closed the door, but the government reacted very quickly and established order. So now I'm essentially asking the proponents whether any of you in your home have ever seen a refugee or a migrant who you're so afraid of. Unless you may have gone to the collection centres and helped them there perhaps, although I have little doubt as to your direction, that you were going, but you went "firbec" as it seems. Migration is a European problem, but I agree with you that Europe has not reacted in time, and I hope that it will at least now. Some indicators have already shown this week that things are improving to establish communication that is missing. Slovenia alone cannot do much. He can set up a fence, of course, but then there is another problem, that anyone who comes to the area can apply to Slovenia for asylum, and then he is ours. But this could be a problem if there's no cooperation. Here we really expect the cooperation of all Europe and the establishment of a southern border or prison, either a fence or well-protected passageways. Here, indeed, Europe must cooperate. So far, it's just that every country has done its own thing. You are masters of creating fear. Since I've been sitting here in the hall for a few hours, at least every fourth word is fear. People are scared. Of course, they're scared if you instill that fear in them. I don't know if you're already preparing for a new rule, although I seriously doubt that you're going to see it, but it's easier for truly frightened people to rule. That's where you're masters. We have good cooperation with Austria, with Croatia less. I'm sorry. I also hope that a link will be established in this area, as today's indicators are also pointing somewhere in this direction. If they don't cooperate, then we can get in trouble because we know they've played us a few times, promised us, but didn't do their job. We got information for the refugees that the cost was somehow 19 million. Since you also spoke about the costs, 12 million have already come from the European Union. So it's not so bad anymore. And it'll come. It'll come because I believe or there are arrangements here. Then I heard several times about paying for expenses on the road, including on Monday's committee, that refugees in other countries are paying for their own travel. Not in the European Union. In Greece they pay in part, I think only a ferry to bring them to the Greek side, and then they pay in Macedonia and Serbia. In the European Union and Croatia, these costs are borne by the European Union. Don't fool yourself with that. Since I have also heard in my home environment and I have already heard how stupid we are to pay for everything, only Slovenia pays. That's not true. If we want to have organized transportation, not dispersion, we will pay for it, because if each person gets on a train or a bus and goes their own way, we will no longer know where it is, so it is very good that it is organised as it is. But I'll say it for the end. Last week I went to Austria because Mr Grims was very much stressing what controls they were. I went through Ljubljana, quite a visit to the border crossing. There was no panic, I slowed down a little bit, showed myself, just like the old days, and I just passed. They didn't personally examine me, I didn't have to open the trunk of the car, we didn't all have to get out of the car, which was in the car to check us out and "wait." That's not what Mr Grimes says. It's a simple deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'd ask nicely if you'd just let the speaker speak to the end and then report for the replica or something, if necessary. Mag. Branko Grimes, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u80	Thank you. The best part is that you took care of a little laugh yourself, even though it was at the expense of the ruling coalition when you said so beautifully: I showed you documents just like in the old days. Yes, Mrs. Jenko! That's the problem. Because it's like old times again! Maybe some day a little sharper, some day a little less sharp, I don't know, they have this different than I hear, I guess it also depends on the time of day, but the point is that now the border controls are back on and the border is closed, and people don't know it at all, and you don't tell them that. Anyone who's about to cross the border just as little as he's been used to for 10 years can be punished, and that's a very big one. That's the problem. And you minimize it: Ah, like the old days. Yeah, I'd cry. By the way, when you mention that government – which was by the way the best that Slovenia had ever had – and led Slovenia successfully at the time of the fastest development and the European Union at the same time – remember that Desus was also in that government and that the curse of a proportional electoral system is that every government is always the hostage of those least, most aggressive, aggressive and inhospitable parties that are in it. This is the curse of a proportional system, which is therefore ineffective in particular in a country such as Slovenia. Just think about it a little bit. But as for the issues of fear. Believe me, nothing is more arousing fear than the incompetence and incompetence of this government. Incompetence when it comes to the fact that all the migratory flows were able to be directed precisely across Slovenia, which is the worst and most stupid thing she could have done, and on the other hand the indiscretion that we witnessed yesterday, for example, when it turns out that the minister illegally "basked" an amount of EUR 40,000 and got the government's commitment. That's no problem. In addition, those policemen who are now setting up their lives are making fun of everything they have to defend their backs to everyone else for two months with some negotiations in which, by the way, exactly the minister I mentioned earlier is involved. It's a great credibility and a wonderful success of this government. And then you wonder if people are afraid. We're just saying the facts out loud! And you keep putting your head in the sand.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mrs Ksenija Rootjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u82	Dear President, thank you very much for your words! Of course a nice greeting to all, both ministers and all fellow Members and Members! We are meeting again at an extraordinary meeting, where we have dealt with one and the same topic for the fifth time. In previous sessions, we have found that the Government and ministers are working effectively and that such meetings are unnecessary. This is also what I am thinking about today's meeting because it is about promoting the candidates of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It would be better to address economic issues and create a better economic environment in order to increase economic growth, prosperity in Slovenia and jobs for young people. In Koroška, one famous cantator says that it is necessary to work. More! The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, took the initiative in the international environment in Brussels and Berlin to propose measures to address the migration crisis. The government, therefore, does not behave passively with Prime Minister Mir Cerar, but rather as an incentive for action to address the migration crisis. Unfortunately, however, the European Union is acting as a dinosaur moving slowly, like an overseat which is very resilient. I could say it's a slow motion European bureaucracy. However, we have also responded appropriately here. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, made it clear in the interview that the European Union is in danger and is falling apart and that if we do not respond in time, this story will be over. Of course, it was followed immediately by an interview with CNN, and they immediately came across the meadow to ask us if it was true or not. Of course it's true. This statement awakened European officials from winter sleep and encouraged measures, so that we finally began to deal intensively with Turkey and to solve problems where they are. Other initiatives followed. Among other things, Foreign Minister Karel Erjavec convinced me with a previous explanation of his activities and I think it works perfectly on the international diplomatic package and, of course, sometimes it works so that we do not know it as we do in international diplomacy. Minister Györkös and Katič are also working effectively and I think that because of their activities we are all calm and safe. In addition, the Ministry of the Economy is monitoring the negative effects of this crisis and will, of course, do everything possible to minimise economic damage. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is serious. Instead of supporting the Government's initiative to awaken European officials together, you are taking initiatives to convene extraordinary meetings. But let us support the actions of this government, work together and unite in the following ways – internationalise this crisis, solve it at its source – in Syria, Iraq and Libya – and put an end to the war there. We see that the interests of capital and of war and oil producers are at the back of this crisis. Let us request a call for an extraordinary United Nations Assembly. Stop creating panic in the opposition and support the government's actions in an international environment. I am, of course, disappointed at the state and action of officials of the European Union, so the last initiative of Dr. Mir Cerar and the Government is welcome. I think the time has come and, as the Foreign Minister has said, this activity is in the right direction. I think that all parliamentary parties must reach consensus and in some way demand that Europe actually fold and that we begin to solve the crisis where it arises, that is, in Syria, Iraq and the Middle East. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I agree that Slovenia faces the greatest challenge after its independence, as well as that it is the biggest challenge for Europe after World War II. I also agree with the fact that Slovenia has made maximum efforts to manage the migration flow and has proven to be doing so. I agree that there have been various problems on the ground, but if the rapid response of this government to what is happening on the ground is not coordinated, the situation would probably be even worse. This government has contributed to the control of the migrant flow, its cooperation with the field, its cooperation with the local community, its immediate and rapid response to the solutions available to it at the time, in particular to protect both the property of our citizens and our citizens. There was no chaos in Slovenia, although it would be possible if the measures of this government were not as they were and as they are being implemented. That didn't happen. Fear, of course, is fear, but it is up to us to decide which side of fear we are on. Or the one who's dying, or the one who's afraid to come, one way or another. It's on us. It's on us. We all talk about how cooperation, integration is needed. Yes, indeed it is necessary, it is necessary at European level and it is also necessary on the inside. For we face a challenge that may sometimes be greater than ours. With all the things that accompany us — in fear, in doubt, from the various emotions that are in place in some way — it is our job to cooperate on the inside, to overcome the fear of helping ourselves and people, that is our task. I think that in this task of solidarity, cooperation may be considered whether we have done enough. Many great political efforts have been made, both at international level and on the inside, to make a strategy, because I have heard today that there is no strategy to hide behind the sand, to push our heads into the sand. No, no, far from it. The strategy is clear, and this is to protect the external border. Dear colleagues, this is not Slovenian, Slovenia does not have an external border. What is our strategy and where is our solution, which, of course, needs our cooperation, coherence, joint action? To do our utmost to protect the EU's external border, to help Greece manage migration flows and to stop illegal migration at the Macedonian-Greek border. This is our strategy, which is potentially also our solution, which allows us to say that we have done everything, coherently and in cooperation, to protect our citizens, to protect Slovenia, our interest. This must show that we are worthy of the values that we are strongly advocating for European values. Let me remind you – cooperation, integration, solidarity. Let's show it on the inside and also on the outside. For if we do not cooperate, as our Government or our ministers and our prime minister have stressed, there is no success. The solution is only in cooperation, the solution is common. Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u86	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! On the one hand, I am pleased that we have people in this national assembly who can face this migratory crisis, which is, of course, an attack on Slovenian and European values and an attack on our security in the Republic of Slovenia. However, I am sad that I have heard today that these are infertile debates, that these are irrelevant debates or meetings, that we are repeating them over and over again in the SDS and that it would be much better if we were dealing with the economy. This is what SMC colleagues say. However, so that the people who are accompanying this meeting today will see how they are dealing with serious matters in the client’s office, let’s say we were discussing forests last week. One year of coalition coordination, over 150 hours of working meetings, when there is a vote, each vote in the SMC. If this is how you deal with this major migration crisis, then today you speak irresponsibly. This is the point that even if there had been a hundred meetings in the previous year, it would not have been in vain if there had been better results. Over time, in our party, we have heard that we are impatient, that meetings are unnecessary, and at the same time, you attacked the President of the Hungarian Government. This President will come to the Republic of Slovenia on Friday. I am sure that this will be handled by the presidents and also by many of your ministers. To all those who will take pictures and shake hands with him, I suggest that you have at least a little sense of what you were saying two, three, four or six years ago and what the Slovenian government thought about this policy, which is, of course, the most popular and mature in Europe today. When we talk about the migrant crisis today or six months ago, there is a fundamental difference. At that time, the government in the Republic of Slovenia was even more compact than today and the crisis at the beginning. That's a fact. I remember a Member who just before Christmas in 2014 named our client with a nickname that there are 20 and one tables. Since, of course, I regularly follow the press conferences of the President of the Government, look at the fraction, I would say to my colleague Radič, and two days ago, the President of the Government put a poster on the stand that he is Slovenian. Funny, times change. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, both ministers who are out there! The Minister of Finance disappointed all the mayors in the Republic of Slovenia, they were also on the balcony a few months ago when the state budget was being adopted, of course he put them on the table, he did not understand that they needed money for the development of local communities. Today, however, the Secretary of State is having trouble going from mayor to mayor, which, of course, is difficult to accept, especially against people living in these local communities. That's one argument. We talk a lot about financial problems in the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Finance can tell us that very well. But the fact is that everyone who enters the Republic of Slovenia, who finally starts our security, our values, will get significantly more money than that citizen who has spent many years building these values, taking care of this country, creating a family, working for 40 years in his company, and today will receive substantial, substantially fewer pensions, and that is not the case. That we are saying today that this session is like, that it is supposed to be liked, that someone is picking up political points, is at odds with every logic. Believe that this migratory crisis will bring about the strongest policies in Europe or in the world. Believe me, soon. Because of this, of course, they did so perhaps with their left hand, rudely, unpragmatically, and meant to live in this country alone. This will happen soon, so today we no longer say that these things are like, these things are serious and we are taking them seriously. I am very pleased to have listened to Mr Grimes, Mr Gorenak today. No one in this room has said one word that they are wrong, just that we always repeat it. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will probably also have to consider his team. When this team went to the polls, nobody talked about the migrant crisis. However, it is fair for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to reflect today and also honestly to say whether all of their fellow workers are still able to face this crisis, which will be significantly stronger in the spring work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I'll focus on two things. First, there's finance, and then there's a second part of airtight border closure. As far as finance is concerned, I will only define myself in so much that, despite the fact that people are involved, it is a huge flow. We are talking about 100,000 migrants arriving in our territory, at least from the point of view of the Government, on the basis of the information that I think is also publicly available, we can find that they are doing what is right. We can conclude this from two key data points. The first is that, by the end of November, the costs of migration were estimated at 19 million. Let us assess this somehow to the person who came to our territory, given that it was accepted by the police, that she was provided, that they helped her, that she somehow came to the center, that they were described, and from there she was moved on and then safely crossed the border and left Slovenia. 70 euros per head for all these costs, all these services — police, military — including the part that fell on the Ministry of the Economy, for all transports and so on, is somehow a reasonable cost and far from what is often mentioned here to go into thousands of euros. I agree, however, that there is a different situation if there are requirements that someone would like to have asylum here. These requirements have been very few so far, and for this very reason, there is real protection against this kind of risk that could happen, this government is aware and thinking, not only a week ahead, but also for a few years, two ahead. After all, we have adopted the budget recently, which provides for funds – the bulk of our European funds, part of our resources – that is the 132 million you mentioned earlier. If, of course, they are not used, they will be redistributed elsewhere. We hope that we will not need them for this purpose, but if necessary, funds are available there. As far as control of these costs is concerned, they are reported twice a month. So far, several of these reports have been reported by seven ministries twice a month. I think control of these costs is effective. In addition, these costs were also requested for three funds for finance, applications were granted in all three cases. The applications were therefore prepared on time, on time and also on time. If I go to another area now, to the mentioned airtight closure of the border. As it has been said, our border has as many obstacles as it is now, especially to direct people, to direct flows so that they can somehow be gathered together, at some point it takes over and adequately assists them. As far as airtight closures are concerned, this may be in some way a cooperation or a joint project on the whole route and, above all, an action at source. Why? Because no matter what these walls are, we can also speak to the Berlin Wall, where you had a double wall, a signal area, a minefield, an army, towers, and so on — people came in thousands. Which means that even if we spend a pair of 100 million euros protecting this border and setting up a fence like maybe sometimes detected here from these debates, we haven't solved the problem, but we've just spent a lot of money. Here, after all, is the question of the economy, including the question of some ethics and assistance to these people. Whether we will give 100 million euros to build a minefield, that no one will ever cross that border again, or whether we will have to help those who are needed at source, or make sure that this flow is controlled as is currently being managed. We had other walls. We had a Chinese guy. Had Hadrian. Every time you go to look at it, the passages were possible, but the technological excess of that time. Ours down there isn't, but even if it were, like I said, it's meant to be directional, and I think it's doing a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u90	I forgot to turn myself in. [[microphone off]] Nice greeting to all present, and thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! The arrival of migrants in our country has caused quite a problem, mainly because of the multitude of these people, these refugees. First, we have estimated that these are primarily those people who are fleeing the violence that is taking place in Syria and Iraq, and later we have found that there are so-called economic migrants and others among them. Above all, when larger groups of young men came along – Mr Grims also talked about this today – which pointed to something that these are some groups of people who have caused some discomfort between us, especially because during this time in the so-called Islamic State there was this terrible violence and horror that we witnessed on television. Of course, this has caused some fear among mankind, as we have heard about it today. We have organized ourselves in Slovenia, and special praise is needed here for volunteers of the Red Cross, for volunteers of Karitas and for all those who have helped with their unselfish help during the night and the day that they have certainly provided the needed, hungry, frozen and otherwise exhausted people. It was at the beginning that those who had money came along, and I remember how much we talked about this, what cases all our authorities had discovered. At that time, of course, we could demand that these people pay for their care, but we did not, so it is too late to talk about it today. But it is true that later the poor came, many even in torn shoes or even barefoot, and so on, the care was, of course, very welcome, even here for clothing and footwear taken care of in the Red Cross and in Karitas. It is also commendable that we have organized health care. It also made me happy that we could save people who were really exhausted or otherwise sick. The European Union has also acknowledged that we have carried out the reception organisation of these migrants well in Slovenia, have prepared well, and the registration has been done fine. But there was a problem because individuals with forged documents, some without documents and so on, there were problems when our people, who had adopted, had problems and, of course, were often incorrect. At this point, I would like to commend everyone who has participated in the organisation of these things, the whole government, and in particular both ministers, both Interior Minister Vesno Györkös and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Secretary of State, Mr Šefic, who on all these television shows, we have just seen, is also very much to be commended, providing very precise information, very good information, which has meant a great deal to people. The Director of Police, Mr Funk, all police officers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces must also be commended because all these people really deserve this praise. If I continue, when the colder time comes, and especially in winter, we expected this migratory wave to shrink and that fewer people will be, but unfortunately it did not happen, as we expected. In countries where these migrants wanted to, especially in Austria, Germany and Scandinavian countries, there were also various unloving incidents, the most significant was this massive sexual assault on women before the new year in several German cities. This, of course, also caused some fear, I think fear is the right word, both between the citizens of Germany and other countries of the European Union, where these migrants are. The European Union later decided to accept only refugees from countries where the war is raging and those who will apply for asylum. All others, economic migrants are said to be returning to their home countries. I think that this was the right move, because really this is the number of people that Europe can't accept, and at all, the question is when this wave would end and how long would it take? It should also be said that Austria and Germany have recently changed the resolution of migration policy. They'll only keep migrants applying for asylum, everyone else, as I said, will be returning. And now the question is why the European Union has allowed migrants in such a large number to come to Europe, many on a dangerous path, across the sea in various boats that we can call robberies, and have paid dearly for this journey, and then in such boats many have landed in the cold sea and drowned, so many have never arrived in Europe. I wonder why the European Union has not acted more effectively and prevented such mass immigration into Europe. I have also drawn up the following opinion that there have been agreements with Greece and that Turkey has also received more sums to keep migrants in its territory. We have read this, but Minister Erjavec said today that this money was not there, so there were no measures in this direction and that is why the matter continued as it was. In those days, we were also informed that the Austrian security authorities at the border with Slovenia would reject all refugees who intended only to cross Germany, not to apply for asylum. This is supposed to be Austria's measure because of the tightening of the regime at the Austrian-German border. Austria will also introduce the upper limit for the number of refugees it intends to accept. Migration flows at the Slovenian-Croatian border should also be monitored. There is also information that the Schengen is at least dead to the Slovenians. I don't believe it. I believe that the European Union is aware that if the Schengen falls, this also means the beginning of the collapse of the European Union, so I believe that things will change further and that unilateral measures will not take place both in Austria and in Germany. I believe in the words of Mrs Györkös, Minister of the Interior, who said that the measure by which Austria would reject all migrants who do not intend to apply for asylum in Germany has not yet been implemented and that if this measure were to begin in Slovenia, it would respond immediately. I also believe that the Government will act and that Slovenia will not become a pocket. Let me finish, thank you for your attention and thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members, good evening all together! We are in the midst of the greatest self-sustaining test. The government is doing extremely difficult work and controlling the situation. I don't think there's anyone here who'd say otherwise. The year 2015 will be recorded in history as Europe's critical year. In cultural and civilisation, social, economic and security terms, the European continent faced the greatest challenge of the post-war period. It cannot be answered quickly and in a simple manner, but certainly not in the way it was held on Monday by the Committee on Home Affairs. I think my colleagues from SDS will agree with me. It should be pointed out that it is possible to respond to this situation through close, constructive, inter-country cooperation. The government is closely monitoring all rapidly changing developments in neighbouring countries, both within Europe and at regional level, and is giving initiatives and supporting joint solutions in bilateral contacts. Slovenia is not an isolated island and its policy is also a response to the stepping-up of neighbouring countries. The situation in the country is difficult, constantly changing in view of the day-to-day influx of migrants, but has never before put at risk the smoother functioning of migrants. International humanitarian assistance in Slovenia testifies to the fact that the situation is both safe and humanitarian. On 22 October 2015, the Republic of Slovenia also asked the international community, both bilaterally and through the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, to assist in the accommodation and care of migrants. Many countries have responded to the request for material, technical and protective resources, we have received assistance from 13 countries worth €11 million, of which 9 million have already been used. Of course, we received another aid, as Defence Minister Andrej Katič signed a donation agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Europe Development Bank worth €1.5 million on 16 November 2015. By April 2016, 100 housing containers, 10 sanitary containers, 10 vans and a cargo vehicle will be available for transport and installation of containers. If I wasn't too long, of course I'd stop here. The international floor is working on bringing countries closer together, which has, of course, been less noticeable so far. A single agreement will have to be established between Greece and Germany. We expect the new government in Croatia to be more constructive, more European. Slovenia is a small country, it has little capacity if we look at the police, the military, but we have managed the situation well so far, and I believe we will continue to see it in the future. But we will have to work better in the future within the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word! First, some answers about fear and who creates fear in the country. You know, people are afraid when they don't trust those who should take care of their safety. That's why they're scared. And they're rightly afraid. Now I'm going to tell you some answers to that question about why the hell we're not working with you, why we're not supporting your actions. Can you list three measures proposed by this government regarding the refugee crisis? I know one. Do you know who that was? The first thing you did was drive the refugees on foot from the border to the refugee centre in Brežice, then back, and then you changed it so much that you put them directly on the train to go to neighbouring Austria. Is that what the rules are? Is that the Schengen, Madam Secretary? This is the execution of the Schengen, surely? If you're nodding about it, then God has mercy on what ministers we have. It is no wonder that Austria has already abolished Schengen with Slovenia. There's something else that's gonna happen if you spend that kind of crap. It is recorded that you count how many migrants go on the train, then put them on the train and take them to Austria. Well, that's not Schengen, and that's gonna be hard to say. However, it would be nice for you to answer at least some questions, given that a different statement by the President of the Government was also made. This is about Slovenia, Germany and Austria adopting an agreement to jointly control the external Schengen border. In answer, you asked: Who will then ensure that we can return these people back to Austria or back to Croatia or vice versa, however you wish. Who the hell is giving us this? Austria has predicted today how many refugees. Given that it's over 1,000, 1,500 now that it's winter, that means that in a good month the border will be closed. Refugees who do not apply for asylum in Germany are already returning to Austria. In short, the borders are closing, and you say you have a strategy. And I'll tell you something else about your strategy. When we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party the so-called tightening of the asylum law, you said: No, such solutions are not right, there must be no such solutions. What kind of withdrawal, pocket money? Today, your President of the Committee on Home Affairs says that we could make up for this with material costs. That's exactly what our law proposed. And more. Let me tell you, not only that, but individual countries, such as Denmark, are even adopting legislation where migrants will have to take care of all the costs themselves. Why? Because they know they're carrying money because it's not refugees. You have also rejected our law if it is too harsh when it comes to various crimes committed by individuals. Germany is today adopting new tightening legislation that will literally mean the expulsion of all those who will be in some major crimes. We're joking here. Are we citizens of the state of Slovenia and Europe or are we not? These people who traveled through Slovenia were behind events that did not happen only in Cologne. Germany, Switzerland, Finland, Austria are reporting today a large number of countries on what was happening with that planned action of abuse of women. At least from the women's part of Parliament, I would expect a little more intense debate and protection of the rights of citizens and citizens. I also hear from my colleague Tilna Christmas today how to do this. A few months ago, Slovenian Democratic Party President Janez Janša explained to you that everything had to be done to stop things at the starting point, and you were giggling. And we nod if it's unnecessary, we don't have any refugees in the country, no migrants. If we really don't have these problems, like some people want to present to the public today, if there is no fear, then why the refugee centers across Slovenia? I'm asking the secretary to answer me why they're looking for locations. You don't have to, 'cause everybody's gonna move on. Is there anything else about the costs, or is it also the costs of those acts committed by refugees when they are returned from Austria? About 50 migrants were rejected days ago, who were making such a mess that police officers had to provide security by means of force and with two buses — not just one, two buses — to take them back from Austria to the starting point in Dobovo. Not only that, but special police escorts have been, and so on. Who's gonna pay for this? I wonder if any action has been taken, has there been any application? Are our citizens responsible for crimes in the country of Slovenia, but are they not? What action was taken when there was a fire in Brežica? Do we simply put these people on a train and try to get them to a neighbouring country by another name and surname? Because if that is the case, then for all of these events, which are happening to us in Europe today as citizens, we are guilty. Because we don't protect the Schengen border, we should. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues of Britain's schools are demanding the abolition of nicob and burk. School. Do you even have to ask why? We'll be happy to support your actions, we'll be happy to cooperate, but where are they? And you don't blame the Slovenian Democratic Party for that. You're responsible for this fear in the country, and there will be more because you're working one and you're talking the other. And that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior, Mag, asked for the floor. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I think it is already notable that in a given situation Slovenia has done everything possible in terms of capacity and legislation. The indicator of this fact is that not far from the most burdened points people do not actually feel the migration wave. The police did a great job. Ask those who have experienced the spilling of migrants at the border. Of course, there were some security-related events in the centres, and they were also controlled. The police responded immediately, followed the law as always, and this is your infamous chaos that you've been operating with. Beyond these events, I can say that the Ministry of the Interior is its primary imperative, that is, security, full effect and assurance. As regards the spillage across the border, which was also discussed today, this occurred after the decision of the Croatian security authorities. At this point, no one was stuck in our territory, all migrants were committed to the Austrian security authorities, so that the balance was on a daily basis, if we can call it that, virtually nothing. Today, it has also been explicitly acknowledged that Slovenia is in fact the only country that is proactive in this migration crisis. That's right. This fact also confirms that from Brussels only Slovenia was not criticised by the European Commission for its violations of the legislation, while both Greece and Croatia were criticised. Finally, the Council's legal service explicitly stated that Croatia is also obliged to fully implement the Schengen rules or the Schengen Borders Code and to do everything to ensure that the Schengen area is not threatened. As far as the migrant centers are concerned. Here I have to answer that this isn't about migrant centers. These are accommodation centres with which we are just replacing those capacities that we simply have to surrender or terminate in terms of the situation, and they are actually the only alternative that I believe nobody wants, and this is the scattering of people who are in transit across the country. But if that's what you want, then tell me. You can say, because we are in Parliament, you can say everything that is bothering you. As far as the Republic of Austria is concerned. Slovenia responds and will also respond to the future, including through equivalent measures, but it must be stressed here that the basic starting point must be the coordinated action and cooperation of countries on the migration path, because I think it is more than obvious that unilateral measures can only make the situation worse for all countries, for some more, for others less, and especially for Slovenia, cooperation with the Republic of Croatia is essential. However, if there are radical constraints on the part of certain countries, Slovenia will, of course, respond with the help of colleagues from the European Union who are already at our border, with all the consequences that this brings with it. Today, the transfer of migrants to Austrian security authorities takes place in a consistent manner despite certain changes. Perhaps it is right that I should also respond here to the remarks made by Mr Vrtovac, who mentioned certain data on the limitation of the number of applicants for international protection to be accepted by Austria. It should be borne in mind that this is information from the media, which should also be taken with a certain amount of reservation. Because it is also clear from the media that Austria is still studying the legality of this measure. Last but not least, this is probably one of the dissuasive measures of the Austrian Government, which it has adopted recently, I believe it will take them in the future. The fact is that each Member State of the European Union must, in accordance with the Convention on the Status of Refugees and European Union legislation, allow access to the procedure of international protection for any alien who so requests, while the number of such aliens cannot be limited on any legal basis, since, ultimately, this is a fundamental right based on refugee law and also one of the civil standards of both the European Union and the wider one. However, the second story is, of course, the solidarity principles of the European Union, by which the burden of asylum seekers is to be shared fairly between Member States and to which Member States have different views. They are also, in my opinion, to some extent negative because Europe is ineffective in protecting its external borders and the relocation will not solve this problem. As for Slovenia and the behaviour of the Slovenian government, Slovenia is not a transit country of its choice or of our policy, but because of the policy of open doors of certain countries – Austria, Germany and also some more northern countries with a note of humanitarianism. Therefore, honourable Members, it is brewing in these countries today. People in these countries are calling on these governments to change their policies. No one in these countries blames Slovenia, which unfortunately is the undertone of this meeting today. On the contrary, all these countries recognize Slovenia's efforts, because we are also recognized, and we are the first country to actually stop the migration flow. This has led not least to developments in Macedonia, and we continue with this proactiveness because it is essential to achieve a manageable number of migrants on the Western Balkan route on which the Republic of Slovenia lies. That's an objective fact. I'm afraid we can't move it. Here too, as we have heard today, it is not about laying down responsibility, but about solving the problem as close as possible to the origin or entry into the European Union. And I am sure you know that this has been the official position of the Republic of Slovenia for some time now. I think it is quite clear that any measure taken by the Slovenian Government and taken in the future will have its own consequences, both positive and negative, so it is extremely important that the management of migration flows is also fully aware of all aspects, because some measure which is, at first glance, effective can reverse the situation in a highly harmful direction and given that I have listened very carefully to this debate today, I must conclude that I do not perceive such comprehensive awareness on the part of the proposer or the opposition. In particular, given the fact that Slovenia alone cannot solve this problem and that it depends on the actions and policies of the target countries, the same applies to all other countries on the Western Balkan route. We listen to calls to close the border all the time. It's actually a light motive for this migrant crisis. However, I would like to know whether you actually know what it means to have such a measure taken. I'm not sure you're fully aware of what that means. Despite the fact that Slovenia has a difficult position according to its position, not least we have 670 kilometers of extremely unfavourable border configuration, we are very exposed to neighbours, that is to say to the Republic of Croatia, which must cooperate with us, and this is better than ever to avoid high-intensity security events at our border and in the local environment. Another important thing in this context is – I believe we all know – that we are dealing with migrants who have a very clear perception of where they want to go. They want to go to Germany, they want to go to Austria, and they want to go north, they don't want to go to Slovenia. This is the perception of these people, who in some way, as we have been able to understand from the reporting of foreign media, also feel invited to the target countries. Last but not least today, Member Gorenak also pointed out something very important when he said that asylum at the border was not prohibited from entering the Schengen area. With this, honourable Member Gorenak has said something very important. Perhaps with this, Member Gorenak, you thought that it would actually be in the perception of these people – in the event that such a radical action would occur at our border, given that this is a very specific group of people – this may be the only solution for them to apply for international protection at our borders, that is, for asylum, because they will think that this is the only way to reach the goal through Slovenia. Is that the doctrine of the Slovenian Democratic Party? That Slovenia becomes a country of destination immediately from a transit country, despite the fact that the target countries still accept migrants, but, of course, at the same time fully legitimate in view of their saturation, they signal that this acceptance is being restricted. Because if these people apply for asylum, as one of the Members has already started this debate today, we must deal with them in accordance with all the standards. This will no longer be transit, it will no longer be the flow for which the Slovenian government has made an extremely great effort in the last period of fighting, but will in fact stay with us for a long time. They will also become dissatisfied because they do not want to stay with us because they have a clearly designed goal to move forward, security issues will open. In this context, return will also open up, and for those people who ask us for international protection and move forward, then, of course, Germany or any other country has the basis to return them, which also comes not least from the last decision of the government when we decided to return. I just hope that this is not part of this famous policy of the apocalypse, that it is indeed a misunderstanding, so we also keep stressing that the coordinated functioning of all countries is essential on the migration path, which Slovenia is working hard to do, even though you do not recognize it, and I think it is unconstructive that you do not recognize it. It is very important for us to get answers, that is, clear rules for which target countries will accept that we will not collect, and part of this is also effective management of migration flows, with an awareness of all the risks arising from this. The Slovenian government is still well aware of all the risks arising from this. If it comes to Slovenia because of some hysterical reactions, not because of some objective nuisance and international law, it becomes the target country, which somehow results from what you are saying, then it will be a very violent response in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think you'll scream so much that they'll hear you to Sweden and they'll come and see what's actually going on with us, but that won't solve the problem either. Slovenia is a credible, responsible Member State of the European Union. We Slovenians are basically a very solidarity nation, and we have also proved ourselves in the past as a solidarity nation, which has helped people in distress in the past, but unfortunately we cannot afford open-door policies, as we have said many times before. We are not economic rulers, we do not have capacity, we do not have material technical resources, we do not have the capacity to solve the problem for the longer term stay of more migrants in Slovenia. Our resources are limited, as you know, already in the so-called transit of migrants when they only pass through our territory. Therefore, Slovenia shall make maximum use of its interests by implementing, preparing and planning comprehensive measures, both in the field of national security and in the field of housing legislation, which it also implements in a proportionate and progressive manner in the light of the circumstances. Finally, one more point must be made, and this is of the utmost importance that the Government is acting in accordance with the instructions of this National Assembly, since this National Assembly adopted on 2 September 2015 a conclusion on the Committee that the migration flow must be considered humanitarianally. It is true that the legislative branch exercises control with the executive branch — because there is great power in the executive branch, even the National Assembly has great power — so, of course, it is right to use it as a representative of the nation — but the government is also acting on the instructions of this national assembly, and this is evidence of this very decision. I must also say that from today's debate I am experiencing very worrying signals because, despite the undisputed success of managing the migratory flow, some are, unfortunately, clearly disappointed that Slovenia has managed to manage the migration flow. In fact, we are talking in the way I have already said on the committee, as if Slovenia had ordered migrants to their borders and ordered too many. I think that by listening on the committee to how some are raising the Republic of Croatia, we have passed a completely new level in our country-building, and this is very worrying. In fact, we are always listening to empty criticism, unconstructive criticism, or perhaps you do not hope to utter one simple sentence, namely, that the police should immediately at the border use force against migrants, in which there are also vulnerable groups, taking into account all the circumstances I have just talked about. Then, of course, the whole of Europe will see what is happening on our border, compromise international reputation, conflict on the Slovenian border, impact on the local population, threatened human security, interpellation and this entire folklore, which is part of it, which is also the risks I have been talking about today. I don't think it's in anybody's interest, at least not at the moment. The same is true of all these eyewitnesses, which we have heard from the very beginning, that we are too late. What are we too late for? With what? With a fence? From your performances it is somehow understood that Slovenia should be able to understand in mid-2015, in the middle of the year, when nothing dramatic has actually happened at our border, not least in the middle of the summer season, when everyone is traveling to Croatia to the sea, when there were no migrants on our border, around and around surrounded by wire and waiting for migrants in ambush. The first consequence would probably be that our citizens and anyone else would have come to the conclusion that the government of Mira Cerar is insane. That's the first thing. The other thing that is even more important is that today we would be here to defend ourselves for economic damage, because of the isolation of Slovenia, due to the interruption of cultural, political, neighbouring, economic and other interests for Slovenia, which are undoubtedly very important for Slovenia. Slovenia is a small country, we are not a self-sufficient country, and these are, of course, our vital interests. Another consequence of this would be if we then behaved in such a way that today we would not have any foreign police officers at our border because Slovenia would be an uncreditable and panicky state. Finally, Hungary, whose mirror you keep setting for us, has not taken any action in stock, but only after almost a year of drowning in the migratory wave. Slovenia was in a significantly better position when the migration wave was diverted than Hungary, because we succeeded, even because of our credibility and because of our responses, in getting a constructive response from the institutions of the European Union immediately. The mini summit of the EU Balkans has also been convened at the initiative of Slovenia, which has also had a certain effect on the situation south of us, and therefore a downward effect has been triggered. But more needs to be done. We need to get to the root of the problem in Greece or Macedonia, and that is why our President of the Government has given a written initiative to assist Macedonia in strengthening border control and to also make it more intensive to return to countries with the help of European agencies. We talk about Schengen all the time. Slovenia is implementing Schengen in a way that creates the conditions for the smooth functioning of Schengen as soon as possible, of course, together with the other Member States, and no country is actually giving us confidence in this, because at this point it is not on the test of Slovenia, but on the test of the European Union. Despite increased migratory pressure, Slovenia has maintained control at our border. I think that Slovenia is only in Slovenia, but certainly not outside, because no country is giving us any mistrust. Speaking of Slovenia, I'm not sure you know exactly what the interest of Slovenia is. The interest of Slovenia is not to rise to power, it is a partial interest that has no multiplier effect. Today a number of lies have also been told. It was said that the V4 countries offered us a hand and that we rejected it. That's a lie. That's not true. That's what you do when you say it. We asked for help and we got it. This mantra surrounding the refusal of aid is, in fact at this moment, kind of the last hit of the opposition, which is by no means true. We rejected – as I also said on the committee – I think that you have all understood, as well as the Slovenian public – a common registration at our border, because in this is an extension for a hot spot in Slovenia. In fact, this means that the entire Balkans would have to drive migrants to us to make a huge camp at the border, where selection would take place, who would be eligible for international protection and who would have to be returned to Afghanistan, Iraq and so on. But of course we all know that we don't accept these countries or these people. If Germany fails to return, if the European Commission has difficulties negotiating with third countries, how do you think Slovenia will do so? Slovenia cannot do this, so we also rejected this agreement, which provided for a joint registration in our territory. Also on the board, I think it's enough plastic to show that the registration that's being carried out in our territory, where people have to come to our territory in order to make it happen, after registration, they're not just going to blow up, they're going to change the aggregate state, they're going to stay with us. We cannot take any commitments towards Austria without Croatia participating and without ensuring that Austria will also accept all those who might be registered with us, then it can accept further so that they can travel smoothly. Because this, honourable Members, is an account without a concierge. We need police officers to control the masses, i.e. police officers who operate under the rules of crowd control, to protect public order and peace, to prevent crimes, to control migrants, that is to say, to enforce the Schengen acquis, or to possibly close borders, if this occurs in a particular case, but not to register, because we are not the first country to enter the European Union, we are not the first country to enter the Schengen. This should be done either by Greece or Croatia. What Slovenia wanted to hang with this agreement should be done by Croatia. As far as the V4 countries are concerned. At the last meeting, these countries further expressed their willingness to strengthen aid in Slovenia. We're asking for cops and these cops, so this type of police officers for exactly those tasks that I listed are actually here. So our interest – again and again I hope to repeat it – is not a hot spot in Slovenia, it is not a registration in Slovenia. Ambassador Lisec says he's disgusted that we refused to help. You don't have to be appalled because we haven't rejected any help. We have refused registration because we do not agree to the creation of a refugee centre for Europe as a whole in Slovenia. If anyone is appalled, I can actually be appalled that everything we explain to you, it bounces away from you, actually slides like a teflon, repeats the exercise and we say it and say it again. I think people are getting tired of hearing us explain the same thing all the time. Foreign cops are here. The question was also how many are currently at the border. There are 137 right now. Of course, our interest and our direction are to ask for additional police officers, but I must point out that our police officers are qualified to protect borders, but of course we will also need assistance in human resources and in other respects if these complex scenarios arise. That's our business. But if you think there's an interest somewhere else, then tell me what you want. As has already been said, joint action is essential. The operation of all countries by common rules, i.e. at the same time, because I think it is quite clear that if one country closes the border, another country has a pocket and someone will get hurt, only the question is who. Alternatives to what I have said, i.e. joint and coordinated action, are unilateral measures. Radically reducing the entry of migrants, tighter border controls, tightening security measures, tightening bilateral relations, aggravating the situation on the entire migration route and, last but not least, affecting the economy, I think these are consequences that are not of interest to anyone. That is why our interest in what the President of the Government has also sent very strongly to the European space is that the problem is being solved at its source or closest to it. It is true that Greece is in a very difficult position, but the fact is that Greece is at the beginning of the road. Greece is a country of accession to the European Union. Greece also needs help, it needs help in hot spots, it needs help in returning, it needs support from European agencies, and I am actually warning from the start of the mandate that the problem needs to be resolved in Greece. Because, finally, if we turn the memory back a little bit, the recent protest by carriers in Greece has clearly demonstrated how little is actually needed to make migration flows more manageable. Greece needs to start effectively monitoring the external border of the European Union. The same is true for Croatia, as they both uncontrolledly leave migrants to the European Union beyond their borders. Of course, these hot spots, wherever they are, which means at the external borders, must also be effective so that the arrival of new migrants into Europe can be effectively affected in this way. In any case, it is an obstacle to the common substantive management of migration flows, from Greece to Germany, and only so that each country can do what it has to do and take over its long burden. However, the prerequisite for consistent respect for Schengen is, in any case, effective protection of external borders. It is therefore quite clear that today, too, among Members, it has been recognised and expressed that Slovenia is not Greece. Slovenia does not have an external border, Slovenia protects the Schengen border, so this initiative, which also was successfully presented by Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec on his tour across the Balkans, is extremely important. In fact, this is an approximate solution to the problem in Greece, so the Macedonian-Greek border is very important for Slovenia too, and they need to be helped. Slovenian police officers are already at the border, and this initiative has also come, which is, after all, at least a partial solution to the problem and is certainly not negligible. All the actions of neighbouring countries, today there has been a lot of talk about this, are in fact not measures against Slovenia. These are essentially measures against the number of migrants, against such a massive migration flow, which has also increased significantly, contrary to the expectations of the open policy of the target countries, they also openly recognise this. In fact, since this large number of migrants do not enter the European Union through Slovenia, the unpurified flow is actually coming, as has already been said, across the two external borders of the European Union. The only criticism of Slovenia, as I have already said, actually comes from Slovenia. While it is clear to me that some political options are in bloody need of the impression of extraordinary conditions for their operation, but not at the expense of Slovenia. You actually blame the Slovenian government or Slovenia for something that the European Union has not been able to save many years ago. In fact, you mislead people by giving them the impression that there is only one measure to stop the flow that we have not carried out, that Slovenia has not actually carried out the same measure, although it is perfectly normal and unrealistic to expect Slovenia to solve the migration problem itself. Such perceptions are also very harmful to people because they are deceived. Finally, you make it very difficult for all those mayors who are in the most exposed municipalities in the border, to face new challenges very effectively and also to cooperate very well with the state authorities. As a result, people in these border municipalities have even more confidence in these mayors than they were entrusted with when they were given a mandate. Today it has also been heard that there is no such schengna as we have known him. That's true, Mr Grimes, that's true. Schengen is on trial as a concept of the European Union, not as a responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's extremely important that we say this explicitly, because that should be clear, but it's not. As it is said, the prerequisite for the full operation of Schengen is effective protection of external borders. We are all ministers of the European Union in agreement on this, and we are also making such great efforts to resolve the situation in Greece. The latest proposals of the European Commission last December, which were submitted, aim to make the external borders of the European Union more effective in protecting themselves, as this is also one of the solutions to the situation. There is a constant paradox throughout the debate, which is evident in Slovenia that it is eliminated from the Schengen area and you are giving us Hungary. We are therefore ineffective, but they are effective. But Hungary is also not envisaged for mini-schengen, so that this structure somehow does not work or is again based on deception and also on some unfounded claim that wrong government policy has driven us out of the Schengen area. As has already been said, Slovenia has never led an open-door policy and Austria's actions are not directed against Slovenia. I can tell you that firsthand. I am always in contact with the Austrian Interior Minister, at the beginning of each conversation I am very grateful for Slovenia's constructive participation in the common problem. This is therefore not only Austria and Slovenia's problem, it is the problem of the whole of Europe. These are actually measures taken by these countries against the unexpected high number of migrants who have opted to travel to these countries, and for which it also boils in these countries, it boils in Austria, it boils in Germany, people demand a change in their policy, and these are not measures against Slovenia. Slovenia is only a problem in Slovenia. There was also a mention of fear. Today there was a lot of talk about fear of this and other perspective, about the fact that the essence of terrorism is fear. Of course, I agree with that, but fear can spread a lot. The Ministry of the Interior, with all its fields of work, is an ideal platform for spreading fear and we know who is constantly using these techniques. But once again, I must stress that the primary imperative of the Ministry of the Interior is security. We have considered migration, if you remember correctly, as a security issue from the very beginning, even when we were initially criticised in the National Assembly, that we are inhumane and that migration should be seen as a humanitarian problem. We have looked at this in a comprehensive way, but in the primary focus of the Ministry of the Interior, it has certainly been security, because it is, after all, our task, and I think that we have done very well. Today, it has also been said that certain countries are introducing temporary reintroduction controls, but I must say here, because it was as if there were some sort of obvious evidence that, despite the re-temporary control at certain borders, i.e. at certain internal borders within the Schengen area, the Schengen area is still operating. The Schengen rules provide for these measures, which is because these measures are aimed at protecting the Schengen area. And here comes another paradox. You are showing us powerlessness or inefficiency while at the same time demanding that Slovenia only consistently implements Schengen on the transit route. I think this is an extremely harmful practice, because it goes to a certain extent here to discredit Slovenia, unjustifiably in the light of all the efforts that Slovenia is making and everyone recognizes it to us, both in the professional public in Slovenia and outside. The President of the National Assembly said very well when he said at the beginning of today's meeting that some were unaware of the seriousness of the situation and that some could be targeted to further harm me by this migratory wave. Slovenia is plunged into the migration crisis because of its geographical position, we are a responsible member of the Schengen. There is no common European solution, we know that. The European Union has not yet successfully secured the effectiveness of its borders and therefore one of the difficulties is also in this direction. The answer to the common problem must, of course, be a joint action at the external borders of the European Union, but this is not the Slovenian-Croatian border. Unless effective measures are taken, only unilateral measures by countries are available, which is by no means in the interest of anyone, so the Slovenian government is constantly making it difficult to come up with common solutions because we know that closing the border in one Member State means a pocket somewhere else, which then brings problems for everyone. Today, it was also well said that Slovenia did not have power to stop the migration flow, so of course we are also trying to find common solutions. At the end, however, I will also refer to something that Member Gorenak has said that the problem is that migrants enter Schengen in Greece, get out of Schengen and enter Schengen again. Of course, there is also one aspect of this problem, because the prerequisite for the operation of the Schengen is effective protection of external borders and all our solutions go in this direction. I will not even define myself to the point that a fence at the border of Slovenia would also lead to the European Union not having a problem, because this has also been said today. I think with this absurd theory we've actually led to absurdity. As for the constant perception that we do not respect Schengen, we respect it. We respect it in the work relating to the regular crossing of borders and the protection outside border crossings, and we make sense of it in relation to mass organised border transports, since it is necessary to take into account, not least, the possibility of security incidents as well as the safety of people and all other aspects of which there has been a lot of talk today and also in previous meetings. Finally, we are also following up on the conclusions of the committee, which I have already discussed. The government is also acting in accordance with the instructions of this National Assembly. You may call it "smuggling," but we call it Article 5 of the Schengen Code, so I suggest you read it carefully, because there will also be a lot of answers to everything that escapes you. I also see from today's debate that, in fact, you do not know each other at all whether the Schengen exists or not. Member Gorenak said that the Schengen will not officially fall, while Member Grims claims otherwise. Temporary full border control does not mean that the Schengen has been abolished. These questions, whether or not there exists, I think it is appropriate to refer to the European Commission because, after all, the European Commission is the guardian of the EU acquis, who is also obliged to ensure that, as far as legislation or the European acquis is concerned, the conditions are such that they can be implemented. It has been obvious to us that we have not changed asylum legislation, that asylum legislation, as it is being prepared, is essentially directed towards an even wider open door for migrants. I don't agree with that. Amendments to the legislation are moving towards more restrictive conditions, towards a loss of rights, both in terms of procedural aspects and in terms of content, and in particular in terms of non-abuse, while proposals made by the Slovenian Democratic Party have also been contrary to European Union law and international obligations in certain segments. This argument is in no way sustainable, because if Slovenia were so attractive in terms of asylum legislation, there would not be such a low number of applicants for international protection. Over 400,000 people went through our territory, and there are some more than 100 applicants, so this thesis cannot be sustained on this line. It's over. There was also talk of a new system introduced by Austria at its border. Certain concerns have also been rightly directed in the direction, or this in fact means that it would be given the opportunity to return to Slovenia in a mass way. I must say here that it is very important for us to know who the Austrians will accept. In fact, the Austrians are still studying this whole system, and in any case, our goal is that we have no surpluses, so we are also working south of us in this direction. As far as these sketches or press releases are concerned. This is about newspapers, and in some ways it's about responding to the Austrian public. Perhaps the potential for this problem of rejection to be highlighted, because we know that the internal political situation is also very tense in Austria, and this is a dramatic effect in these respects as well. The return process itself remains the same at this point, i.e. the announcement and surrender between the authorities as agreed. I can tell you that the center in Shentyla works the same way. Work is coordinated and coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u98	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I understood today's debate in the introduction as an exchange of views, but not as a well-respected minister, as a classic political account that has nothing to do with it. You say that it is only the media, and I am telling you that Kronen Zeitung is a serious Austrian newspaper and that the Republic of Slovenia should specifically discuss this, i.e. the measures taken by the Austrian State. Some facts. In your debate, you did not say one measure in the light of the events in Austria that the Republic of Slovenia should take in the light of their discussions. Germany has today returned more migrants to Austria. The Land of Upper Austria has already reacted to this, things are getting complicated, but believe that Austria is finding this conclusion to limit 37 000 500 asylum seekers, I would not accept it if it were not in agreement with Germany. All the countries, including in the Balkans, are taking action, and we are not in this debate today – I hope, Minister, that we will hear one thing to the end – about what we will do. I hope that tomorrow the government will adopt an action plan at the government's meeting, whether you will set an upper limit or not, but something will have to be done. We are not afraid of anything, but the Government would be effective in its actions if the border with the Republic of Austria continued to be open. This would be efficiency, as is the open border between Austria and Hungary on the other hand. There are limits to bragging. But the guarantee regarding the opposition, Greece, Croatia and how it is not possible to participate – receive that ticket from your Prime Minister, and say again: I am Slovenian, I do not guarantee, I am looking for solutions. But this is true for you, because you are just jamming through the entire session, like this European Union, how we cannot do anything on our own. The President of the government was right to read this. The solutions, with the solutions, come to the meeting for the second time, we have not heard any solutions today. The crisis in Slovenia did not hurt. She was hurt, of course, by fellow Members of the SMC. We can no longer travel to Austria as we did a month ago. And it's gonna get worse. Moreover, this will also have economic consequences. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has already estimated in millions of euros per month what this will be due to our own inefficiency. If they were effective, I repeat, Austria would not close the border with the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to Serbia and the other countries in the Balkans and how they react. Great thing, great that Serbia reacts, that it only lets into its country those who say they are going to Austria or Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what everyone says. Everyone says at the border between Macedonia and Serbia that they want to go to Germany. This is no measure for Serbia. Earlier this afternoon, I was mentioned, I think by Mrs Verveg of the SMC, that we are misinterpreting 37 thousand 500. So many asylum seekers will be accepted by Austria by the end of this year. And all the others with valid documents, so you, if you go to Austria. Those who come to Austria and say they only want to go to Germany will tell him to stay in Shentil, Slovenia. This is happening to us. I want the government to come with measures, set one limit on how and how many people we will still let into this country. Not only is this a problem of Slovenia, we all agree, and Slovenia itself cannot solve it, but the problem is that other countries do not seem to trust us. Austria trusts Hungary, which is why it has not established control there and has established control at the border with Slovenia. Let me explain to you why I can no longer go without personal documents in Graz and why I fear that I will no longer be allowed to go without personal documents in Trieste. Ladies and gentlemen, the devil has taken a joke.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Despite the fact that all our proposals for conclusions were rejected, even though they merely provided for consistent respect for the rule of law, the principle of legality, the constitutionality and respect for the ratified international treaties adopted, without exception, I thought that this would be mainly an exchange of views, but we were now witnessing one such attack by the Minister against the opposition and the motioners of the meeting, which, with all due respect, was highly ridiculous. Now I understand this silence, which was previously present, obviously I misunderstood it, it was a self-defense reflection of the government, because only now that it has spoken can it be seen how disastrous things really are when it comes to understanding some things. I'm just going to quote and comment. "The number of refugees cannot be limited." Where do you have any fugitives? Good morning, Slovenia. By international acts and by the Minister of the Interior, I would really expect him to know the rules at least. For none of those who come to Slovenia, neither is one, nor can he be a fugitive. Under international law, you can be a fugitive in the first neighbouring safe country, and from there you are a migrant and nothing else. And if the Minister wishes to withdraw this now, I would remind her that her Secretary of State, Mr Šefic, has already stressed several times, even here today, that they have decided to use the term migrants precisely because he is the only one in the current situation. According to the legal acts. Which is true, I totally agree with him here. So, Madam Minister, the number of refugees may not be limited, but the number of migrants is not only permissible but also reasonable. Second. "One-sided measures are only harmful." Go say it to Hungary. If there were elections in Hungary today, I think Orban would get 80% or more. Because he has set up a fence, closed borders for illegal migrants, and protected his country, in the face of all of Europe, when you're confronted with fascists, and I don't know what. There is now a beautiful economy of flowers and people are safe, which is essential. "Slovenia has a difficult position." That's right. But here we agree, Madam Secretary. But you put her in this difficult position. If — instead of making a fool out of Hungary and me — when I set an example for them — you set one fair fence or at least start doing it, because it would be an important gesture, declare a prison for illegal immigrants and, of course, consistently implement the Schengen, because you are aware of two different things, then today with none of these problems that you are now listing would have to deal with at all. We could not save the whole of Europe, but the flow would have turned elsewhere, but we would have saved and protected ourselves. In a situation where it is not possible to rely on the institution of the European Union or on the words of its neighbours, you simply need to turn around to protect yourself in the first place. Only if you protect yourself can you help anyone else. From this point of view, I must say that you may have been accused of a great state secret when you used the term and tried to frame it for us. The politics of the apocalypse. Perhaps you have said what is actually the red thread of your government policy when it comes to solving the migrant crisis, and I regret if that is the case. You were talking about broken ties to good cooperation if you set up a fence and made a prison for illegal immigrants. Come on! What about the fact that Schengen is dead? What about this? Where are the ties to good cooperation now? You were also talking about the impact on the economy. Too bad it's gonna be a million dollars. It's not my assessment, it's an official institution's assessment. You can go read it. Your Minister's assessment is also that the economic damage has already been a few million due to the migrant crisis, but of course it is only the most basic one. What's the biggest problem? This is the one that I said at the beginning of all of you who said today that what we are dealing with is that we have to deal with economic issues, that, ladies and gentlemen, is the most crucial economic issue at this point. It's no longer important right now. Why? Because fear is the most powerful movement and fear works, whether we have a session or not, whether we tell the truth or push our heads into the sand as the coalition would like. This fear works so that it is measurable, as it can already be seen from the data. Double. First of all, entrepreneurs don't invest. When it comes to a risky environment, they do not invest or at least not invest as much as they would otherwise. There are no new quality jobs, which are the only permanent source of prosperity and also of human security. On the other hand, ordinary people then resort to saving. This proves that suddenly there are huge amounts of funds in all accounts. The data was published two days ago in Finance that EUR 4 000 700 or something on average is now in accounts somewhere. Much more than it was a year ago, a few years ago. A lot more than that! Of course, wages didn't go up, wages went down! So what's going on? People don't spend money, people expect it to get worse, and that's why they resort to saving. This is a normal reflex that is always present in every country of the world. But this reflection is devastating for the economy, because it means that money doesn't go around. This is why, although some of the first elements may have already appeared to have come about, not only Slovenia, but the whole of Europe is already talking about a new stagnation and economic disaster that it has itself caused by the unreasonable treatment of this illegal migrant crisis. "Greece is in a difficult position and needs help." Don't mess around. Greece is making a fool of itself from all over Europe and is unobstructedly sending migrants across, helping them, and, by the way, it is "casing" them a little bit, requiring additional money from the European Union. The Greek leftist government needs one good kick, not something else. Because what they are doing should have the effect of expelling them from the European Union in order to understand each other. Don't talk about being in a difficult position. They themselves are causing this difficult situation. There are two reasons things don't work today. There's a Greece that can handle these things on its own. [[claps with your fingers]] if she wanted to, the other one who would have dealt with it more quickly is Turkey, and she doesn't want to, and of course she's blackmailing the whole European Union, which you've acknowledged among the lines yourself. You talk about people in distress, I hear it all over again. What are we up to now? In Gorenjska we have one school where literally children run behind their necks. You could have seen that on TV. A few hundred thousand euros would have to be taken care of. This is an insurmountable problem for this government. We have some roads that are the most deadly, such as the Hotemaga-Britoff section, for children, because they go through villages, unprotected and so on. There'd also be a $2 million cost. This is an insurmountable problem for this government. 123 million euros for migrants is not a problem, we put them on the table. And that in the same breath, when you write in the Law on Budget Implementation that there will be no harmonisation for pensions. So much for teaching all the gentlemen of Desus and all those who are so naive that they still vote for them. Let them read a little bit about what the Budget Implementation Act says. For those of you who have worked for 40 years, put money aside and paid bills, and taxes, all of this country, there will be no money for those who are supposed to be, by law, for illegal migrants, for "smuggling commercials" is no problem. There's something really wrong here. It's very wrong with the values, it's very wrong with the policy of the country that's doing this. That is why what was said to the Minister before, that is, the policy of the apocalypse, says very much about the red and the policy of this government. If we look at the matter, it is in the end that the National Assembly, if it were worthy of its name, would in any way have to adopt the decisions that we have proposed, because these conclusions did not foresee anything other than the consistent implementation of the regulations, the closure of the border for illegal immigrants – if one cannot read what it says there – and then, of course, the implementation of the Schengen is consistently carried out. You can't run the Schengen until you have illegal emigrants. These are not two separate matters if the Minister does not understand. First you have to close the border for illegal migrants in full, and then, of course, you can implement the Schengen. But we both can't do it together at the same time. Three years ago, if someone were to file one without proper documents and take it to Austria, they'd lock it up for three years. Now you, Madam Minister, the Government, all the institutions. That's why we're in trouble. So don't say we have a difficult position. We have a difficult position because you've put us in this difficult position, and you wouldn't have to do that at all. From this position, however, there is only one way out of here for the flow of migrants to stop here, to focus wherever they want, and to protect Slovenia's inhabitants. Once again, I will also conclude that it is not the task of the government or its coalition to try to paint as beautifully as possible in left-wing media as we are "multi-cults", nice and I don't know what, but it is your job to take care of the right economy, for security, for the welfare of people. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u102	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We are very focused on Slovenia, but the fact is that this debate is in the Slovenian Parliament because they want American oil corporations to control all oil and everywhere. If we are monitoring a democratic campaign in America, we find that they are very frank about the fact that this is actually the way governments are being formed. Where this does not work in such a way, so by means of capital, this is done by overthrowing the government and, of course, by instability in a region. The Middle East is certainly one of such regions that has experienced such instability. There is, of course, the most oil. If we touch the European Union, I think it is right to return to the beginning of the European Union. At that time, a common defence policy or common defence space was also envisaged, but this common defence space had never occurred in the European Union. It was also one of the plans to actually prevent a common defence plan from forming within the European Union. If we only remember the attempts of the French President after the assassination in France, in Paris, how he tried to reach an agreement on a single defence plan or approach. It is a horror when, in fact, you are trying to solve the situation that was previously deliberately prevented, and this is lacking in Europe or the European Union today. The Multi-urban Group and Central Europe have actually organised themselves. They have made it clear that they close their borders and do not engage in this problem of migrants in other respects. The Scandinavian countries will certainly play their part, and border closures are already taking place there. Slovenia has always wanted to become an integral part of Western Europe, even though it belongs to Central Europe. Slovenia is a Central European country and we can say quite frankly here today that this is one of the wrong directions of Slovenian foreign policy since Slovenia's independence. But the price of this and what is happening to us in practice can only be experienced today, it is likely that the image predominates, or if you want a glimpse of Western Europe in front of Central Europe. If we want to stay in Western Europe even at a time when the Schengen regime is literally collapsing, it is likely that much more needs to be done than we have been able to do in the last period. I will remind myself that as early as 6 November last year, on a joint broadcast on TV SLO 3, I spoke about the fact that there will certainly be a closure of the border with Austria, that there will certainly be a closure of the reception of migrants in Germany, of course, and that this is a fact that will simply not be possible. This is happening right now. At that time, I also spoke of the need to take an intensive approach to helping Macedonia establish control and an appropriate regime with the support of new countries, if not Western European countries, and at least those that we once formed in this Western Balkans. Two and a half months have passed since November, and today we are just before Austria has already made a decision to limit the reception of asylum seekers. The government will decide tomorrow how much quota we will be willing to take over, of course, how we will deal with this. But the difference is essential. The so-called Vienna refugee summit, in which the government, countries and congregations participate, is taking place in Austria. In Slovenia it is happening in such a way that we have in strict secrecy everything that is planned. The only room for discussion on this subject is the National Assembly, where positions are exchanged at the political level, and this is what we are missing. We do not know how to connect the local environment with the country, so that we can solve such serious issues as the reception and management of migrants and refugees and how many asylum seekers we will be able to receive in Slovenia. This is something that we should probably already have very precisely defined and people should be aware of. Everything happens at the last minute or when something happened somewhere, and then it reacts to the outside in Slovenia. I believe that individual government departments have information that they are working to do their best to actually do everything they can to control the matter, but unfortunately this is happening behind closed doors. This is what I consider to be a+ one of the wrong moves in this period, when it is also necessary to respond to the migration crisis. It has also been shown in practice that the system, which has been well integrated into the local environment and also upgraded to the national level, has worked well in this process of receiving and transporting refugees and migrants. It was practically civil protection. This was organised and organised both at the local level and at the national level. This relationship works and this has also helped us and helps us to make the procedures significantly easier than if we had to carry them all by ourselves, say the police or part of the Slovenian Army. That is why I have also repeatedly pointed out in these debates that we must not close our eyes and that we must also approach the organisation of national protection. People's protection is actually the bond we're missing. We don't have a province, we don't have this intermediate level, like Austria has a country, but we can organise national protection because we already had this system organized. This is not a great logistics science, since these principles have all been built, and then you have practically covered every local community or congregation all the way to government or state level. It is primarily the responsibility of this national protection that someone can legitimately see what he has in the vehicle, so that he can draw attention to someone who is staying in an area, so that he can point out that something is happening somewhere near a kindergarten, a school, a health center, or a factory. This system is not built in Slovenia. Here, however, I think it would be right to have one evaluation by the Government and the intelligence services, as to how the long-term process is in the event of migration. Will this process end in 2016 or will it close in 2050? This is a key information and should then be properly organised in the country. If it is a one-year process, of course it is possible to organise and manage it in a very short time. However, it can be a process that will take years, even if we look at everything that is going on in the Middle East, despite all the information provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that at least in Syria it can be possible to run democratic elections, to form one power, and that things might calm down a little, it is one process that will probably not be completed in one year. Later, the process of rebuilding this area is something that would be very important information for Europe. For only when houses, factories, and everything that was destroyed in the Middle East are restored will these migrants be able to return home. They won't. Until then, we need to survive. If we want to manage this, I believe that it is really necessary to organise ourselves more seriously and that national protection is also being sought, so that we can manage things from local to national.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka, to prepare herself for the Mag. Alexander Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen, we are all very happy together. I'm from the border congregation. Not only borderline, but also from a congregation bordering the Schengen border. The perceptions of individual Members, who are no longer here, that Members do not know what is happening, that we have never been present in the field, unfortunately they do not. Not for some, anyway. But if they speak for themselves, let them speak for themselves. I don't think it's right. The matter in these congregations is still a matter of concern. That's what people are asking. I have a number of parliamentary offices, almost in all congregations, and every time I am there, the question also relates to the issue of migration itself. I didn't want some fruitless session today, as it was obvious, but I wanted, above all, that you, a respected coalition, in some way understood that it might make sense for you to listen to us, the opposition. We have already warned of many measures in the past, you have rejected them, but today many of them have proved successful. However, I think it is quite right to estimate that more or less fires are extinguished all the time, that there is no pro-activity and that now is really not the time for some slow action, given what we read in foreign media, if we exclude our own. Perhaps Austria is serious about its conduct. I believe the ministries are aware of the seriousness of the situation, no matter what they say in public. Unfortunately, I have no feeling that the members of the coalition are aware of the seriousness of this situation we are in. In the past, there has been a lot of deception by the fact that children and women, refugees, are mostly coming, the word migrants, mostly immigrants, have been used for a long time. I believe that at the Ministry they have information about how many of these 420 thousand who have crossed the territory of Slovenia are men, what age groups they are in, even though we know that they were hugely registered on 1.1 years of age. However, we know how many women there are and how many children there are, by the time they are about 14 years of age, because it would be difficult for them to treat them as children or, more recently, as minors, according to their conduct. But we are probably all here monitoring what is happening in countries where a large number of these migrants are present. They're sometimes banned from entering public pools because of harassment of women. We know what happened to Sylvester, we've heard that today. We have also read that German police officers have been instructed not to report the crimes of migrants. But let's leave what the media says. We have facts. We know that more than 420 thousand migrants have crossed the territory of Slovenia. Some less than 150 kilometres of fences or wires were placed on the southern border. We also see that there is no more or less cooperation with the Republic of Croatia. We also know that Germany and Austria are in some way closing borders or that Austria will accept only 37 thousand 500 migrants this year who will apply for asylum. As they state, by 30.6.2019 they will not accept more than 127 thousand. If we know that 420,000 have arrived in Slovenia within four months, of course we may be concerned. I really want to know where these people are going. What happens when they can't go to Austria? We don't have the southern borders secured. Therefore, your answer that you will do the same as Austria, I do not know how you will do it. Tell me. People would also like to be informed. You might be able to calm down a lot of things. The implementation of the Schengen border has already been much said, but at the outset, the Minister said that Slovenia is making sense of implementing the Schengen rules. In this second part, when the minister gave some explanations, I understood what that word really meant. I simply can't explain myself in any other way than by illegally driving people who did not have permission to enter the territory of Slovenia to the border with Austria. At times, I also have the feeling that the coalition Members know more, so it might be appropriate for us who are members of the opposition to give some more information. Many times we were told that we were spreading fear among people. No! No! But we get a number of questions that we don't have answers to. Maybe you should give us some more information. People tend to worry about how their security will be ensured in the future. This is a key question that they really want to know. We still have the green borders. If I think back a little bit, people in the circus-Zavrč area, where the crossings across the green border were, are asking again. In one part the fence is already set there, something is set up, but when the border with Austria is closed they wonder what will happen if what is already happening, and then these people will know that Austria will no longer accept them. Of course they're scared. So I want to know how you intend to protect this border. Secondly, of course, what I am interested in is the migration centre itself in Kidrichev. Like two months ago, people were asking me this question. They talked to each other about something being prepared there in Kidrichev and about getting migrants. Of course, I called the mayor first, asked him if he was holding this information, and assured him that he had not received any information related to this issue from the Ministry. Okay, the case has been closed for now. Not long ago, however, it was exposed again. The Secretary of State was at the mayor's office last week last Friday, they discussed some concrete answers about this migration centre. People are now asking, it has been said that during the weeks the decision will somehow fall, but it has also been said that the will of the people will be respected. I believe that people have clearly expressed their will that they simply do not want a migration centre in this area. They don't want any more migrants than there are residents. It should be noted that there are two larger companies in this congregation that employ several thousand people. These few thousand jobs are extremely important, not only for the congregation, but for the wider region. It's not a developed area, it's an underdeveloped area. Given how often we watch the distribution of funds, it is heard that resources for the development of the regions are by no means more or less divided by what year, but there is nothing for that styrian end that needs concrete help. After all, of course, people want to live in the future in the way they have now lived, so that their children can walk normally, so that they are not afraid and so on. They're worried. So if you already have an answer to that question, I would really ask you to say it. By doing so, or by doing so, you will allay these fears. Of course, they wonder why accommodation centres would actually be needed, given that it has been said that migrants in Slovenia will not or will only be those who ask for asylum. So far, there have been 200 circuses, which means there's probably enough room in the asylum home for these people. Slovenia has always been considered a safe country. I really want to, and I believe that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want everything to remain that way in the future, so I really ask you and I call on you to make security the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u105	The word has magic. Aleksander Kavčič, prepare Mr Branko Zorman and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u106	Dear President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General! It was said by the proposer that Slovenia should build a fence together with Hungary and that this migratory flow should be stopped or redirected. Where would you reroute? I would redirect to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is likely to have caused civil war there and possibly a war of greater proportions. Europe today faces the greatest migration crisis since World War II, because people are fleeing hunger, fleeing poverty and, of course, war. Europe will probably need a new treaty. This Treaty may also be called the Treaty of Ljubljana. Slovenia will never be the same as it was. She's going to have an experience that wasn't her fault. She'll have an experience she's been pushed into. Of course, Slovenia has a great responsibility because the European Union cannot and cannot find a common solution because countries operate with a fig in their pocket. Europe is also aware of history by blackmail, and one country is peacefully watching what is happening to another country that has been dealing with migration issues for years. But if I come from history, the Slovenians will achieve what others have achieved with weapons by word of mouth. This is why the European institutions are now engaged in the initiative of Prime Minister Mir Cerar to address this crisis in the light of the urgent assistance to countries on the Balkan path. That is why the Government has the solutions and will act in the Slovenian national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u107	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister or Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State! The complexity of this situation has already been discussed in terms of how we should resolve it. Within the opposition in Slovenia we have two completely diametric views. On the one hand, we have SDS and NSIs that support the fence, but of course this is not enough, because we would like to make it significantly tightened, and then we have the United Left, and we would like this fence to withdraw immediately and not be aware of the seriousness of this situation. The fact is that we are faced with the most serious situation after independence, probably the most serious situation since World War II. This problem is global, it is not only a problem of the European Union, it is a global problem, but Slovenia is, of course, part of all this, both the world and the European Union. The proposer of this meeting would, of course, like all the blame for this global situation that has arisen to this government, to the Slovenian government, as if it were her fault that migrants were, as if we had invented these migrants and brought them to our border, so that they have a problem then Austria and Germany. Sometimes it's really untasteful to listen to their claims. The fact is that the situation has arisen as a result of the European Union's unwillingness. That's a fact. Nor were the rules designed to provide for such situations prepared, but action in some timeframes was not appropriate. As far as the Slovenian government is concerned, the action was prudent, scaled up and coordinated. Why in a coordinated manner? You all speak and point out that Austria is exacerbating the regime at the border, of course it has announced this tightening of the regime at the border including Germany, and so have we. I had read earlier that Croatia had done the same thing, predicting a tightening of the border regime with Serbia, before Serbia, the same Macedonia. This is some logical order that follows, without some muscle tightening and essentially acting in contravention with some civilized standards and with the rules of the game at the final stage. Of course, it is also here to welcome the initiative of our Internal Minister Vesna Györkös, who had already convened a meeting of interior ministers on this so-called Balkan route. Otherwise, the Croatian Interior Minister did not attend these meetings. We wish that this cooperation with all countries, the north and south of us, would take place in a smooth and coordinated manner. This government is in constant contact with all countries, both Croatia and Austria and Germany. If this government had not been so successful, in concert with the governments of these countries, we would have been in a very serious situation long ago. The situation is serious, but dramatic is not in Slovenia, dramatic is far down south. Some of you have highlighted transports as to how Slovenia offers free transport to migrants, which has already been mentioned during the discussion. Slovenia is not the only country offering free transport to migrants from entry point to exit point, Croatia, Austria and Germany, EU countries also offer free transport. Where does the abuse and exploitation of these migrants come from? Macedonia and Serbia. These two countries are transit countries and are not the final states, so they could in some way afford that the flow of these people is simply uncontrollable and free. In addition, of course, in every such matter, there are those who can make a good living doing so. In Gevgelia alone, 60 taxis were reregistered offering transportation from the Greek-Macedonian to the Macedonian-Serbian border. Then calculate for yourself where Slovenia belongs and how Slovenia regulates it. In short, the fact is whether or not we recognize that this migration situation is being handled perfectly by this government and that all the measures taken by that government have been timely, regardless of what the applicant claims. I would like to stress once again what I said earlier that everything has a logical order. As long as this order of measures is coordinated up and down, Slovenia is on the safe side. The unwillingness of this government is evident, some chaotic images are created, how chaos is and so on. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that citizens – except those in the Brežica area, Dobova or Šentilj – do not experience this migratory situation or the migrant crisis. We have not seen any migrants in Ljubljana. Why? But because the government is failing? No, because the government is doing well. It controls the movement of these people across the country and thus ensures that no pockets are created in Slovenia, which some fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u109	The word has been given by Mr Jan Mahnic, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u110	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about this migratory wave or, if we say bob beans, whatever we read in domestic and foreign media, when we talk about this planned and long-planned Islamic invasion of Europe, we are not talking about some phenomenon that we might say was not expected or that we were not prepared to do. They should be ready at the moment Hungary started building the fence. At that time, they should have built me the same fence that the Hungarians built. I think we're mixing two concepts in this migrant crisis. One is control, the other is prevention. In contrast to what we saw at the time, I agree with the Minister. Controlling the flow, if we take it by somehow getting migrants on trains so they don't run around the country, then we can talk about control. But in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are talking about another matter, which is prevention. Also, the prevention of this controlled flow, because the countries have practically been accelerated for a month, and in the last week, they are talking about how they will reject these economic migrants, or all those who are not eligible for asylum, and we control them and we are just letting them go. So those who will eventually receive asylum, even though I claim that there are no refugees in this wave because they have crossed five, six, seven safe states. A refugee fleeing the danger of being persecuted in one way or another because of religious, political, or other beliefs is satisfied in the first safe country. But what's the problem? The first safe country they come from is Turkey. Instead of keeping Turkey, which is strictly controlled by Turkish President Erdogan, there are these migrants — or refugees there — even after receiving the promise of three billion aid when it received the promise of visa liberalisation, it is still sending three, four thousand people a day. Mr. Minister, I ask you to tell the ministers that once you meet again, Erdogan cannot be trusted. He just can't be trusted. Based on all the promises, everything he's already got, whatever else he's gonna get, I doubt it's gonna be any different. That would be good to say and to recall the phrase that made it an organized Islamic invasion of Europe. See how we have in these North African and Middle Eastern countries how they will subjugate Europe, how Islam will subjugate Europe with its naturality, where their advantages lie. All of this is a scenario that has been coming up in recent years. And the famous Erdogan quote: "The Moshes are our soldiers, the domes of our helmets, the minarets of our bayonets, the believers of our soldiers." All these militias already have this money from their money across Europe, money from Arab countries that do not accept any refugees, and money to put mosques across Europe. By the way, I am very surprised or surprised to learn how Katar, a prominent funder of the Islamic State, can finance the construction of the Ljubljana mosque. Here, too, one debate will have to be opened on how we can allow such a country financing terrorism to finance this matter. But all this is a prediction that soldiers are coming. I'm not saying that all these people are terrorists, far from it. But as I've said many times, if only one in a hundred thousand is a potential terrorist, it's a problem. Because they will tell us once or will tell you that you are now the executive authority, that in 2016 alone you have given 123 million euros for people, including potential terrorists, potential radical Islamic extremists who will rape Europeans, who will cut throats for Europeans, who will carry out terrorist attacks in Europe that will do such and other things in the pools. These are all facts. I'm not making this up. Anyone who reads foreign and Slovenian media lately knows that. If someone's pointing to the facts, don't be afraid. That is why such meetings are important and also necessary for us to talk, even in this direction, about what we will do to prevent these things. You have repeatedly told us that we are troublesome, that migrants have free public transport. This is not a problem, but let Slovenian and Slovenians also have free public transport. We are only against the fact that our citizens and citizens who pay taxes here, even the poorest, are not entitled to free public transport. Those migrants have it. I do not agree with the exploitation, as Mr Zorman said earlier, of taxi services. But let's say Greece. There, when a migrant from Turkey goes to Greece with a ferry, he pays for the ticket. Two months ago, when the carriers of these ferry were on strike, the emigrant wave stopped substantially for a few days. That's what you say if you want, you can. There should be more pressure on Greece, but especially not to trust President Erdogan. I think there have been enough indians, enough warnings in this national council about what's going on. Mr Šefic and Mrs Minister are also present at virtually all meetings of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence services. I believe you have more information than we do, what Turkey is doing, what the Turkish intelligence service is doing, and what the role of this service is in this migration crisis. We're just picking up some kind of response. It is also the task of the opposition that we submit our proposals. Don't look at these sessions too high, but just take them as an opportunity if you think that everything is so oh and you are doing very well to present these measures. Then it's in public to weigh who's right and what's right. The fact is, we do not speak in mind in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Everything my colleagues used to say, everything I say, we can show with documents, with newspaper articles, not least with certain testimony from those who witnessed such or other attacks. Not only on New Year's Eve, see what's going on in Sweden, how it's already required somewhere in Europe to introduce Sharia law and so on. The problem is creating a problem and it is therefore necessary to control more than the flows of these migrants coming to the target countries and finding that money does not grow on trees, that jobs are not to be reviewed. When they're angry, then there'll be a problem. When Germany is on fire when Belgium is on fire, it will soon come to Slovenia, because we are not an isolated island. This is why we are warning because it is our duty to protect citizens and citizens because we are concerned about the security of this government, because you are also citizens and citizens. And you won't be immune before what happens if we don't stop it right now. Last year we released a million of them into the European Union. In my opinion, a million is too much. If we had done as we suggested – although I agree that Slovenia would be very burdened – but if we had all come down to help us, whether you call it a hot spot or anything to check here who is entitled to asylum, I think there would have been a million, as I said before, even if we were to close our eyes and say that refugees are also those who have crossed some safe countries, 100, 150 thousand refugees, which, as I have already said, belongs to that quota of 200,000 for reassignment. If a million migrants have been accepted, believe me, the European Union could agree to reassign them to 150, 200,000. This would be a responsible migrant policy, a responsible policy for citizens and citizens. Let me just finish. A lot of things, a lot of questions are also being asked about our security. Yesterday the media reported, today reports and. Once again, the debate in this House will also have to be opened. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have just proposed the establishment of a national guard for things like this crisis for other natural disasters that have been, have been and are coming. This just means reforming the Slovenian Army's reserve structure, because we don't need it now, because we have 700 contractual reserves, which we spend in the first call virtually everything, in view of everyone who has responded and who hasn't responded, and a strategic reserve that we don't have. We need a voluntary reserve of the Slovenian Armed Forces, in which anyone who wants to do so can be included. We have this proposal divided, and we will also talk about it, and then I hope that this implementation will also take place. Discussions in this crisis are also needed to reorganise our national security system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u111	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Mr Jože Tanko and then the final representative or representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u112	Dear President, thank you for your word! In the middle of Ljubljana, I was stopped by a citizen of Ljubljana and said to me: I am not your sympathizer, I am not an SDS voter, but if today the Prime Minister Janez Janša was to sleep more quietly and feel safer in Slovenia. Those were words, and I think security in Slovenia is questionable today. Security is questionable in Europe, and I am sure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are aware of it and that they can indeed be afraid. Because I do not think that the Government of Mira Cerar has taken any such measure to ensure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can feel safer. We have listened to the debate by the coalition Members and Members to sow the fear that there is no security risk. Was there an alarm before the terrorist attack in Paris that France was not a safe country? Today we can hear about terrorist attacks around the world. Terrorism comes overnight. The Slovenian Democratic Party shall propose all the measures it proposes in a state-of-the-art manner. Why did you reject the amendment of the Penal Code in December 2014, when we pointed out matters? Today, we are hearing from the police that there is no legal basis for refusing any suspicious migrant to enter Slovenia. You're turning down. But in other matters, I'm not surprised. If you've come to power with fraud, that's probably the way you rule. You said that Europe was acting. Why did Austria today, as the first European country, adopt the ceiling on the reception of asylum seekers? The first European country today officially adopted 37,000 asylum seekers in 2016. The first country of the European Union, our neighbour. How will the government of Mir Cerar react? In what way? I think we should meet tonight and take some action. Today, Macedonia has closed its border and there is a great risk that Slovenia will become a pocket in the middle of Europe and no one will help us. Above all, it must be realized that among the migrants who will be returned, there is likely to be a completely different atmosphere than today. Why doesn't the government decide to charge migrants this route? Charge it at least 10 euros. Migrants have a police escort. We can monitor buses that drive at least twice a day on the Gorenjska highway to Austria, with police escorts. Greece's charging it. More than 400,000 migrants have crossed the Slovenian country today, but we do not have social allowances, we do not have health care, we do not have public education. You can charge 10 euros for this transport. I think anyone can pay for that. But we do know that most of these migrants, at least according to media information, have substantial sums of money with them. On the other hand, the clear question for the Minister of the Interior is why the police no longer publish the structure of migrants on the websites. At the beginning, the structure was always published — by the countries they come from, by sex, by age. Today, there is no more data on the police side. Just a number. What are you hiding? Why don't you want to publish this information? There's still time, but there's less of it from day to day. Dear Government of Mir Cerar, please do not endanger the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because security is the first good we can have, the main good. Without security there is no economic growth, there are no issues. How will immigrants who will stay here integrate into life in Slovenia? The only way to integrate immigrants is to integrate through work. The case in Germany – 9 out of 10 migrants do not have an adequate education and do not have adequate working habits. Avoid the chaos that may follow if the government of Mira Cerar continues with the work that has been shown today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u113	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. The government's representative should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. P In such difficult cases as the management of migratory flows, it is likely that any normal government would want the opposition to cooperate. I have repeatedly pointed out in this National Assembly that, at the request or proposal of the Government, there was not a single working body in this National Assembly on the issue of migrant problems, nor was the meeting of the National Assembly convened. Everything that happened in the National Assembly about these problems was triggered at the request of the opposition SDS, perhaps with the help of another party. If the government is so absolute in its management of the state of Slovenia, even in the field of migration flows, then we are witnessing a special regime called Cerara's absolutism. I was present once during a government discussion when a law on the granting of military powers was discussed. We come to a meeting, everyone's talking about a solution, the President of the Government wasn't even enough to give those who came to the meeting a copy of what the government had agreed on. It was nothing. For some things to work, we often hear that the government is ready for all scenarios. I now propose that Minister Györkös, who talks about all these scenarios, list four or five scenarios for which the Government is prepared, for which Slovenia is prepared. What are they and what are the measures for this? We don't know anything about scenarios or how these scenarios are going to be solved. Nothing. We know that we do not have enough coalition forces and that we do not have enough military forces to even protect the southern border as it is appropriate. It's not. To see something going on in this area that will exceed the capacity of this country, it shows that the accelerated country is looking for additional locations for the accommodation of migrants, which means, at home, that the Government is likely to expect everything that will return to Slovenia and what will come from Croatia will not be able to return through Kolpa if I say very simplistic. Why, then, if you're so sure of these solutions, you're looking for capacity for 50,000 accommodation facilities, if that's how it's going to go south so easily. As soon as the migration flows to the north, when people went there with hopes and expectations that something would help them to experience something there, these currents were accompanied by major problems. Major problems with security matters as regards property protection, property conservation and so on. What will this wave be like when it turns down when these people go about the same way back, so that their desires do not come true? There's probably going to be other things going on. I must say that the Slovenian Democratic Party has taken a proactive approach to solving these problems. Since nothing has happened on the government side and since the government has not proposed anything, we have repeatedly proposed certain measures, both in the form of acts and certain legal solutions. Unfortunately, this was very vehemently rejected by government representatives. The President of the Government even said that we were breaking the foundations of the country and I don't know what else he said or anything like that, saying that he didn't actually allow anyone else to go up or advise or suggest any solutions in this area. You have also called on the Slovenian Democratic Party to participate today. Okay, we're working together, we're offering solutions, we're offering proposals, but if you're so sworn in and you want this cooperation, then at least some kind of well-intentioned recommendation would be supported or amended and made more acceptable to you. You're not even so good as to be able to discuss the recommendations at the meeting today. We all know the status of his recommendation. It is some polite gesture of someone to invite someone to act or to think in a certain area. Even so, the coalition majority in this national council is not willing to listen. At the same time, he offers nothing, he just fucks up, and he persistently discredits those who do. What is now happening with these additional accommodation facilities will certainly not be free of charge. This is going to be more than one location with 3,000 or 5,000 accommodation capacity, that's going to be ten times that, that's going to be a few times more dangerous than it was at the beginning when the wave went in their preferred direction. The issue of costs is also justified here. All our citizens, those who have difficulty helping themselves in any way, must, if they have the property, allow for some financial assistance to enter the mortgage. These people obviously come with cash, with money, with large sums of money and for these people who have a superstandard financial situation under Slovenian conditions, we will provide from the state budget funds for their care, for their insurance. The richer countries than us, who are also smarter, have, say, Denmark, taken measures that are completely different. That is to say, first of all, that those who have travelled to Europe should provide coverage from their own resources, and only if these resources are sufficient, should the intervention source of their national budget be in turn. On the contrary. In some cases, there are people who have some tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of euros, and we provide them with a full service from the most modern sports equipment, nutrition and so on, which means that something is also wrong in this government with approach, thinking and evaluation. In short, I propose that measures be taken as soon as possible to protect people and property. The country must act preventively, that is to say, measures are taken forward, not backward.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u115	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representatives of the Government or the representative of the proposer, who have already taken advantage of their time, are given the floor. I don't think the government wants to discuss it any more. That is why I note that you have been given the floor by all the reported debaters who wanted to do so. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. After about eight hours of these discussions, several questions were raised, including after the Minister had answered them. Given that the government has time, I would expect some further clarifications, additional answers. I see that the goal of the government team here is only to allow time to pass, that is to say that the debate is being put under the table, whether any answers are given or not. I expect the government to respond within its time to what has been set. However, I think, Mr President, it is a shame that the Government announces its time on such a difficult subject as the management of migration flows and crises, and in fact, it does not even use the time or wisdom of ministers who are the most responsible in this country and should also be the greatest knowledgeers of the areas covered by it. Finally, we see that because there are no answers, they hold all the difficulties or all the statements made by Members because the Government has no answer to these things. I suggest you call the government representatives, three of them are here to give each of them some answers from their point of view, if they have already come to this meeting. But I think it's very distasteful that they come to stay on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u117	I ask once again because there is still time left for us to see if anyone else wants to discuss it. Then I'd like you to sign in. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss one of the representatives of the proposal for a recommendation and a representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case you get the last word as usual. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has five minutes of time available. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Three ministers, or two ministers and one minister, are present in the National Assembly, and there are also two secretaries of state, and there are no answers to our questions. It's really sad. Mr President, I do not think that such a policy implemented by your government is appropriate and that, as President of the National Assembly, we could act here. You're wasting your time sitting in the National Assembly. Let's take action. The Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party agreed on an important measure. The first country within the European Union to adopt a measure limiting the number of asylum allocations in 2016. And the European Union's response is positive. Why didn't Slovenia do it first? Why didn't the government do this to Mira Cerar? Schulz, President of the European Parliament, said "respect". He welcomes this decision. He said it was the first right step to preserve the Schengen. What action will the Government of Mira Cerar take tomorrow or today, in view of the action now known to the entire European Union, adopted by the Austrian Government? Coalition of Social Democrats and Austrian People's Party. Before that, I asked a question I didn't get an answer to. I'm setting him up again. Why is it that the police no longer publish the structure of migrants who come to Slovenia on their websites? In the beginning you published the structure by sex, by citizenship, by age groups, today you only publish numbers. There's so many coming in, so many going out. Are you hiding something or what? I would like to know the structure of these 420 thousand migrants who have come to Slovenia so far – how many are actually citizens of the Republic of Syria, how many other citizens are, how many are men, how many are women. The measures proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party are for the day. You then take all measures with some time delay, but this time shift means a negative situation for Slovenia. It also means the decline in economic growth, all of it. Why could Orban — and thus Hungary — be the first to build a fence? Why is Austria now the first of the European countries to adopt the ceiling for the granting of asylum? Aren't you looking for a solution? Today, however, it was with your coalition sides that Members and Members should listen only to murmuring. Why is this the sixth session? I am sure that within fourteen days there will be at least one extraordinary or urgent session, and you may call it because you may be aware of the seriousness of the situation, because you will no longer be able to deal with the situation. Let the security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia be ensured. This is the main good we have. If there's no security, everything else is gone. What's helping you home, what helps you deposit at the bank if you're not safe if you feel threatened? Take care of it. You, as Members and Members of Parliament, can do much to help this. Perhaps the Government of Mir Cerar should react differently if you supported the measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee, or if the National Assembly adopted these measures today. But you're protecting the government. But I'm afraid this thing isn't going to end well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u119	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am only speaking because there were virtually no answers from the Minister in her speech. There was a lot of accounting with the biggest opposition party, instead of being happy, because even those measures you took, you're more of them because you've only heard something. However, we have not received any answers to the specific questions. We are here in the role of representatives of citizens and citizens who deserve answers, unless you say out loud that this is strictly confidential information. Then they will also feel something out of it and know which way the answer is going. But, Your Honor, I specifically asked you why there are so many locations in Slovenia for so-called accommodation centres if we have no problems in Slovenia with this issue and this problem. Why do you literally rape the congregations just before the laborers and not only arouse fear, but you stir up protests and cause them by your way of work? I specifically asked you what the criminal responsibility of those who caused harm to the State by acting as a criminal. They were migrants. In a few days, since Austria has returned migrants to Slovenia – I think there have been some 3,000 of these people – several times have happened that these were at odds significant that the damage was caused. Don't hesitate, Madam Secretary of State, I know that all the data doesn't come to the media and they won't come, but because we have to drive thirty people with six cars and two buses, I wonder what happens when these people are ten thousand and they're in a much worse mood than they were. It was burning in Brežice. Who was responsible for this, who was going to pay for it? Taxpayers, our citizens, those citizens who live on the edge of poverty or beneath it, who are already 300,000? Are they gonna pay you for this? I said that Denmark is preparing new legislation, that all migrants will have to pay their own costs. They'll vouch for their property that they have with them. Germany is tightening the legislation on criminal liability. Today, the Minister tells us that our proposal for a law was somewhat contrary to some conventions. On the other hand, it says that the proposal made by the government – we have not seen it – is even sharper. How's it going together? He's not sharper. Wake up, not because that is what we, opposition Members are saying, but because citizens and citizens report it. Austria closes its borders and is now stopping down in Croatia. Everyone has already taken action, our government is supposed to meet tomorrow. Proactive. Maybe in this last minute I'll end up with a little joke to make the mood better. The minister talked a lot about talking on the phone with her colleagues in one way or another. I hope so. For we do not only have security problems when we are talking about migrants, because neither the President of the Government nor the smaller team have security when it comes to basic telephone conversations, because anyone who calls in the cabinet can be the Prime Minister of another country. Good morning, Slovenia. What's up? [[advertising from the hall]] Are we going to say hello with the money, the Peace, the Bye, and so on? You're funny, but you're sad at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u121	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u122	Thank you. I had previously concluded my debate on how to reorganise our national security system, on how it is now time to launch debates on the reform of the Slovenian army, the reserve system, and therefore our proposal on the national guard. Now is the time to finally say that our national security system is on the verge of collapse and that there are only two culprits for this, in most cases two. The first is the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, and the second is the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor. Secondly, because, despite some promises, he does not see the need to give more money for security to give more money to the defence system, which is also publicly complained by the Minister of Defence, and the President of the Government because he does not have enough integrity to order the Minister of Finance at least to meet what we have promised the NATO connection, that is to say that we are starting to raise the defence budget gradually, and above all to ensure that it does not fall. Since the beginning of this crisis, the Slovenian Democratic Party has been actively involved in its resolution on both domestic and international floors. Just when this crisis broke out, when they were uncontrolledly crossing the border, across Kolpo, we had a European People's Party Congress in Madrid. There was a resolution on how to deal with this migration crisis, and the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed several amendments that have made this resolution even more stringent to these migrations, and they have all been supported. We have also proposed some laws to mitigate this crisis — the Asylum Act or the International Protection Act, which has not been adopted. You have probably been made aware of what is happening in Slovenia. What is happening is that, at this migratory Muslim wave, some domestic Muslims radicalize and are already "targeting" members of the Slovenian Islamic community by asking them: Why does your wife not wear burka, and why do you not have a beard? Members and members of the Muslim community in Slovenia are also afraid, I am talking about those who came during the war from Bosnia. That is why we have proposed a law on the wearing of burks. We know that you now wear very little burkas to be seen at all times, but just to protect them from being targeted like some now, and not to be targeted by those who are now coming. On the part of the Government, we have received only one proposal from the National Assembly, which specifically concerns this migrant crisis, and this proposal was Article 37 and 37a of the Defence Act. You can't talk about our destructiveness. The Slovenian Democratic Party has also contributed the necessary votes to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. This was done in October, then there was a threat by referendum, in December the Constitutional Court lifted this threat and there was no requirement by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to activate this article and that the military would already be given certain powers to at least see what that looks like in practice. President Janez Janša attended the National Security Council twice. Everything he suggested there was vehemently rejected, but later virtually all the government's solutions were made. We're not saying, some of you did, but everything with a delay. Austria today, when we were talking, so during this debate, said that the border was closing. I hope the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will give the same message tomorrow. The border with Croatia is closed, but we have proposed this to you already in the second half of last year. If Slovenia did so, it would not be necessary for Germany to do so, it would not be necessary for Austria to do so, it would not be a domino effect by the target countries down south, but it would be a domino effect by Slovenia down. This would be what Croatia would do, what Serbia would do, and then go down to Macedonia, as is now the proposal, which was already our proposal in October. What is most funny is that a country that is neither a member of the European Union nor a member of the Schengen area must now protect and save the European Union and the Schengen from this mess. Even though she's going to get some help right now, she'd need some help in the force of living. If Greece is not interested, we could have gone to Macedonia by then. By doing so, Slovenia would have triggered this domino effect by then, and unfortunately we are too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u123	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Now I've been listening to my buddy Mahnich. This colleague, what you said, of course, is not true that Slovenia could save Germany. You forget here that Germany actually invited these refugees, had some open-ended policy, which has largely caused us to be here where we are. However, I would like to point out that this meeting, which you consider to be constructive, is actually destructive. The government explained how the matter is being handled, how the situation is serious, and how it is being tackled in a serious way. The session itself was obviously designed to show the public how incompetent the government is, how threatened we are. We have heard colleagues Grimes say that Europe is falling apart and that Slovenia is falling apart. Please. Neither does Slovenia, and probably not Europe for now. I am not saying that Europe may not fall apart in some future, but I believe Slovenia will not. And this emphasis on some critical situation suggests that these suggestions are not constructive in anything. The second side of the medal is the United Left. And they say we have to remove the entire fence on the southern border. That's the other side of the medal. You say we close the borders, but I don't know if you're aware of what this means for our economy. I come from Brežice, I know what one closure of the border crossing meant for our economy. And the United Left says we put all the fences away. But the emphasis that may be the conclusion of today's debate is that we can recommend any measures to the government and it may even execute them, but we do not know whether we will have these refugees on the other side of the fence tomorrow or not. In short, the refugee problem must be solved at its origin. If it were so easy with some recommendations to the government to resolve these problems, it would suddenly be the end of the refugee crisis. That's what you say. That's not true. Look at Italy, look at Spain, France, Germany. This refugee crisis obviously cannot be solved by some kind of coup, but by some recommendations to the government, as you say today for seven hours. That's not true. You may want to do well, but you do not realize that in your words you are promoting some kind of fear, significantly greater than it is necessary, but obviously for some political reasons, some political reasons. We are all aware that the situation is serious, and we will respond appropriately, but we must be aware that if we lock ourselves in a bunker tomorrow, the question is where our economy will be and how people will go across borders to work. They won't be able to walk. This calculation should always be in front of the eyes. I observe that the Government has had it so far, and I hope that it will continue to have it in the light of the actions of the northern countries. As for exclusion from Schengen or being expelled from Schengen, that is not true either. I do not know if you have read that Sweden has closed the border against Denmark and this southern border, so Sweden against Denmark and Denmark against Germany. Germany was then also excluded from Schengen. How about that? Then we're all expelled from Schengen. Not to claim that the Slovenian Government has caused Slovenia to be excluded from Schengen. That's just not true. Of course, I appeal to the Government to continue to act very carefully. We will, of course, monitor Parliament's work and hope that it will also be very successful on the international floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u125	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate the Minister and, of course, the Secretary of State, Chief, on their insistence on the debate here. I say that the debate has brought some good things. The only thing that matters is the ability of someone to listen and not to reject immediately, somehow after the defolk, if something is said by chance by the opposition. I can say that the New Slovenia debate was entirely in the context of yesterday's and today's debate in the European Parliament. Will anyone go to Strasbourg and talk about boys and girls having the wrong time? You want to see a hero. Mr Donald Tusk gave the members of the European Union two months yesterday to solve the refugee crisis. Yeah, it's true, the devil took the joke. Even such a relatively hard rhetoric, which is not practiced by Mr Tusk, is probably some pressure on the Member States – that is, Slovenia, because we are also Europe – to do what we have to do in order to respect the principle of pacta sunt servand. It is very difficult for us to agree on certain rules within the European Union, such as the Schengen Code, but now we do not respect it and that is why we have a headache and will be very, very painful in the future. Mr Tusk requests that members of the European Union manage the flow of refugees within two months at the latest. Come in. Yesterday, also in Strasbourg, Mr Junker said that if the Schengen falls, the euro makes no sense and that we have to calculate how much the non-Schengen costs us. I continue to remain in the European Parliament, where Dutch Prime Minister Rutte said today that "in eight weeks, the number of refugees must be significantly reduced." So you and Donald Tusk are in line. This same Mr Rutte, Reuters reported, on 19 November at a closed meeting of the Dutch government – the Netherlands holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union this mid-year – proposed that the Dutch government launch the idea of a mini-scheng for members. Maybe this thing isn't very good – mini Schengen. Of course, it is not good, it is not good if Slovenia remains outside this area. If someone doesn't want to understand that it's being implemented that the mini-schengen is already here, then he has to understand that the semi-schengen is being implemented. Semi-schengen, that's a fact. This is saying, I repeat, that we have Schengen de iure and we have de facto non-schengen. Perhaps this proposal, which I repeat from my first debate, will be rejected by the coalition, if someone from the backseat of the National Assembly is now talking about it, from number 90. I repeat my well-intentioned proposal. Everyone is somehow connecting, and Verhofstadt or ALDE has proposed an extraordinary summit on the subject of refugees, because there is probably no time to discuss refugees at the EU's February summit. Why not? Because they will mainly discuss brexit. That is why I propose once again that Dr Miro Cerar convene a political summit, representatives, presidents, perhaps also leaders of parliamentary groups, and all parliamentary parties. Don't forget the President of the Republic who has to be at this meeting. This should be some meetings or meetings with quite a common frequency to be informed. Among the government's actions that the government may take tomorrow – God forbid – there may be one that needs a legal basis. Can we make it through the night? It's hard. Who, in fact, gave this government somehow the first support for technical obstacles? Right side of the opposition. But it is true that we would probably not put a barbed wire between the Drava River, which, as we learn in primary school, is a large river, and between the Formin hydroelectric channel, is impossible to get through. I conclude, cooperation with [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-20-SDZ7-Izredna-27.ana.u127	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
