ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Violeta Tomić, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer by 3 p.m., Andreja Potočnik, Irene Grošelj Kosnik by 11 p.m., Marjan Dolinšek, Miha Kordiš, Mr. Jan Mahnic, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 3 p.m., Branko Zorman to 3.30 p.m. and Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 2 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. This is, on the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2016 and 2017 following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a novelty of this year's Budget Implementation Act for three reasons in particular. In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the individual laws adopted after the entry into force of the ZIPRS already this year, it is necessary to supplement the individual provisions. In particular, it is intended to ensure the functioning of the guarantee for deposits in banks and for the operation of the Forest Fund as a budget fund under the Forest Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The second set of amendments concerns regulation or the provision of a source for financing this year's investments in water infrastructure, since the dynamics of the implementation of these investments require enhanced implementation in this year, otherwise there could be greater economic damage. However, the third area, which is addressed by the amendment of the law, concerns the financing of municipalities. Discussions with municipalities on the content of contracts for the co-financing of individual local projects with European funds from the new financial perspective have shown that some solutions that would be meaningful in terms of both parties, namely municipalities and countries, cannot be implemented under the existing ZIPRS provisions. This is mainly the provision governing the recovery of unduly used funds. Therefore, two amendments are proposed: an extension of the statutory payment period from 30 to 90 days in case the municipality is required to recover due to unjustified European funds and an additional debt mechanism is allowed to the municipalities if the funds for the so-called financial corrections due to the misuse of European funds could not be returned to the remaining resources of the municipal budget within the said 90-day period. In addition, the draft law contains amendments to certain other provisions to ensure that the budget is better implemented. Changes in the recording of government debt management and changes in the reallocation of spending rights between certain types of items. As it is said, the proposed amendments fully allow for better implementation of the adopted budget for this year, and the Government is therefore proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Within the framework of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we discussed this topic on Monday, which was the 60th urgent meeting of 13. 6., as the mother's working body. We discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. The government offered it to us. We have also received some additional material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council and several writings of municipalities, says nine letters of municipalities and also a letter from the Association of Slovene municipalities. We have tabled the amendments to Article 2 of the coalition members of the group, and the amendment of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats - has also been tabled, which has been withdrawn since it was not tabled in accordance with the rules of business. The introductory explanation provided by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented in particular what was mentioned in the introduction; it is said that there is a harmonisation of the laws, in particular as regards the guarantee for applications relating to forest management, then the regulation of the use of funds for investments in water infrastructure, the drawing-up of European funds, the additional indebtedness of municipalities, and also, in some ways, the optimisation of transfers of resources between policies, in order to optimise consumption. Furthermore, a presentation by the Council of State mentioned that they did not support the proposal, with the main emphasis on the issue of the averages or funding of municipalities. The debate followed and raised the issue of the compatibility of this proposal with the Constitution, with the Public Finance Act, concerning the purpose of the use of funds from surplus dividends in the electricity sector, then the average of municipalities, in particular in terms of coherent development and in the light of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court on subsidies for non-profit dwellings, was also problematic. On the other hand, investments in water infrastructure have been particularly welcome, as some members believe that investment is lacking in this area and that they also have strong positive multipliers. It has also been pointed out that the proposal does not deviate from the principle of an integrated budget. Following the discussion, the secretary at the Ministry of Finance also provided additional explanations and answers. This was followed by votes, namely the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the coalition SMC, Desus and SD. We did not vote on the second amendment, as already mentioned in the introduction, for business reasons. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. As regards the amended bill, which also takes account of the amendments mentioned above, it is annexed to the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 aligns this law with two laws: the Act on the Guarantee Scheme for Deposits, which lays down the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in cases where the Deposit Guarantee Fund from its regular sources of funding could not fulfil its legal obligations. It is further coordinated with the Forest Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, which requires the adoption of a budget forest fund and dedicated revenue. The amendment of the law further allows the reallocation of the MDG and the reallocation between pension protection policy items, public debt service and the management of EU funds and payments, making it possible to ensure better implementation of the budget adopted. In the SMC Group, we also consider as extremely important changes to the law, which are the basis for the investments that construction in Slovenia still needs. The municipalities are thus allowed a longer period for the return of cohesion policy funds to the country's budget in cases of financial correction, and they are also allowed to be indebted to the extent set by the Law on the Return of Cohesion Policy Funds, thereby facilitating the implementation of 11 environmental cohesion projects by all municipalities by reducing the risks of their operations in the event of corrections. These are known cohesion projects: drinking water supply, separation, wastewater treatment, which are extremely important for regional and local development. In terms of promoting investment in construction, the law provides for a new dedicated income of more than €40 million for investments in water infrastructure, allowing the construction of water infrastructure to continue under the coalition agreement when the construction of HE Brežica is completed. Construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava and associated water infrastructure is currently the largest environmental and energy project in Slovenia, which will make an important contribution in the future to the achievement of the targets regarding the share of renewable energy use in the gross end-use of energy, as well as the provision of flood safety in the area of the lower Sava and Krka rivers. Of course, it is not too much to mention the multiplier effects observed by Umar, in the sense that the construction of the hydroelectric power plant contributes to the annual level of 0.4% of the point towards the growth of the gross social product. The Law therefore contains compliance with other laws, I specifically cited two laws, some amendments aimed at optimizing the implementation of the budget, while allowing important environmental construction investments, which will be supported by the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The Budget Implementation Act is the law that finds partial solutions to issues that are not addressed by the budget itself, which are not resolved by systemic acts, both in terms of revenue and in terms of expenditure; at least most of the provisions of the Budget Implementation Act are such as to regulate certain matters that could not otherwise be resolved. As a result, this law is untransparent in its contents. Each year it is added some additional revenue, expenditure, debt and so on from different areas, so that this transparency is essentially greater from year to year. Since the Government does not send to the National Assembly of the Law on Public Finance, of course chaos or confusion in this financial area is considerable and, of course, also untransparent and difficult to manage. This amendment to the Law on the implementation of the budget increases this lack of transparency. It is increasing mainly because on the one hand additional revenue is being introduced, on the other hand – here I think in connection with the Forest Act – there is no clear consumption and the revenue of the profit budget is deliberately used, which is for electricity purposes for precisely defined purposes. Here it must be said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are in favour of increasing investment in the country, but we are not in favour of the individual revenue of the budget being directly linked to a certain consumption or to a certain investment. This needs to be done by means of budgetary documents, the budget itself for a strategy where we have virtually all the options for a certain income to be allocated. Unfortunately, the fact is that now 40 million profits of electricity will be used strictly by law itself. Similar issues and inconsistencies are also highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. So it's not a lonely opinion. The profession also points out that this actually increases the lack of transparency. In addition, this law increases debt in some way; in short, the congregations are no longer bound by a certain limit. I hope that this will contribute to additional investments at the level of the municipalities, and that, on the other hand, it will not affect the image of the Slovenian State as regards the debt. What is it that this law doesn't regulate that you should? Morale also based on individual statements made by government representatives six months ago. It does not regulate the average for municipalities. If you remember, half a year ago, when the budget for 2016 and 2017 was adopted, it was also said by representatives or representatives of the Government that the Government would still agree and agree with representatives of the municipalities on average for 2016. As stated on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, this is no longer the case. The government will no longer negotiate with the municipalities or negotiate for 2016. Maybe 2017. This average is lower than it should be under the basic law governing the average, and the Budget Implementation Act reduces this average at the expense of citizens and citizens. Even though we have at least 40 million of our resources under this law, we simply leave behind what we once said we would arrange or arrange for this government, let us leave it for the next generation or for the future. In short, because of these inconsistencies and intransparency, we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We want greater transparency, and we want citizens and citizens to have something out of this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u9	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. In the Desus Group we support the so-called zipper for 2016 and 2017. Typically, the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an implementing, technical law that serves to ensure that implementation is carried out smoothly, the implementation of the budget. Oh, yeah. The proposed law intervenes in a number of different areas and harmonises the laws adopted after the adoption of this current zipper, by which we implement the budget. Since the Law on Forests or on Forest Management, owned by the Republic of Slovenia, was not adopted at that time, the proposed law recognises the budget fund for forests and assigned revenue. The latter is because it is not sufficient that a certain remuneration is recognised in the sectoral law, but it must also be defined in the statutory law, which regulates the implementation and implementation of the budgets for this year and the following year. It is also coordinated – the zipper, this law, which is before us – also with the Law on the Deposit Guarantee Scheme, so the law in force is complemented by a provision whereby the State can additionally delegate itself in the event that the Fund is unable to provide sufficient funds in a timely manner. Of course, the hope and desire that this will never be necessary remains and is present. To encourage investment. In the country, the draft law provides for a new dedicated income from the payment of the dividends of the electricity economy. It is expected to receive additional revenue from the state budget, which will be spent €40.7 million on the construction of water infrastructure and will not burden anyone else, in particular they would not want to burden chickens carrying golden eggs – the Drava power plant Maribor. In particular, it is the financing of investment works at the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the earmarked resources must be provided as soon as possible, as the main investment works will be carried out in the summer months. Area of local self-government, municipalities. The municipalities will be allowed a longer period for the possible return of cohesion policy funds to the country's budget in the event of any financial correction being made. The extension of this period to 90 days seems reasonable to us, as this allows the implementation of debt procedures, if necessary, or the adoption of a rebalancing of the municipal budget. The bill – this seems to me to be the most sensitive issue – also allows the reallocation of spending rights between policy items 21 - Pension protection and 22 - Public debt service and 24 - EU payments. Of course, we are always very careful in Desus when it comes to pensions, pension systems, pension protection. Indeed, it must be said here that the ZIPRS complement allows only reallocation between these 21st, 22nd and 24th policies, among them, and other policies that are not allowed to be redistributed, is not possible. This only allows for the avoidance of any additional debt, since otherwise an absurd situation could have occurred when the asset remained on a certain item would have been further required in the second item, and if there had been no reallocation, this would have been irrational and distorted by any economic logic. In doing so, it must be explicitly stated that these possible annual redistribution of spending rights also in the context of policy 21 – Pension protection will not be jeopardised by the smooth payment of all liabilities to all pensioners, including valorisation and regression, by the way, next year for all pensioners. Because of all of this, the changes mentioned in the amendment to this law are fine, we support them in full, and this is it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u11	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017, as the law brings some necessary additions to the applicable law on the implementation of the budget. For instance, resources are provided for the bank resolution fund established under the Deposit Guarantee Scheme Act. It should be pointed out, however, that the State's resources are only needed as a guarantee at the initial time of the Fund's operation and the likelihood of being used is indeed minimal this time, in our opinion. Further, it is necessary to respond to the fact that the Forest Management Act has been adopted by the Republic of Slovenia and this provides for the establishment of a specific budget fund for forests, which will collect resources from management in the state forests, and thus allow this fund to become operational. Probably the most important solution was to allocate dividends to electric companies, which, however, must be said, first cover the hole created by the water fund due to the 40 million amount that had to be provided to pay for the lawsuit due to the failure to supply electricity from the Krka Croatia nuclear power plant. This damage must be remedied in such a way as to provide an additional 40 million from dividends and thus avoid further damage that would have occurred if they had stopped or reduced the dynamics of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on Sava, which are certainly one of the important investments not only in the field of electricity, but also within the country for a more stable supply of the economy and all consumers of cheap electricity. The law also touches on the reallocation of funds between pension protection items, the servicing of public debt and the payment of funds to the European Union and allows the annual needs to be met without any additional debt being allowed, and on other items, for example, the funds could remain unused. Of course, we expect that people or pensioners will certainly have the advantage in this redistribution process, so that this money is guaranteed first by redistribution for the purposes of pension protection and then for the purposes of repayment of the debt or for the purposes of payment of funds to the European Union. Marriage will also be more favorable to the congregations, we can say. In fact, the deadline for payment of the financial correction for European funds is extended and harmonised for 90 days. This allows municipalities to better acquire bridge debt funds when they finance investments involving European funds. It is also possible for municipalities to be in charge of co-financing cohesion policy funds through a foreign limit of €750,000, but with the restriction that they can benefit from this exception only if the debt is used to finance their own participation in project financing. Regrettably, the proposal of a number of municipalities that responded to this law with their warnings of an increase in the average cannot be taken into account, since the law itself does not have an open article concerning certain heights of the average. On this occasion, however, we would like to point out that the Constitutional Court has warned or decided that the Housing Law is inconsistent with the Constitution in that part of the provision of subsidies also for those renters who rent apartments on the basis of profitable rents. Therefore, this difference also needs to be ensured from municipal budgets, so we expect the housing law to come into the procedure earlier than in one year, as set by the Constitutional Court, and avoid unnecessary problems in the adoption of budgets in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! It probably does not need to be stressed that we do not support the government's budgetary legislation in the United Left. In this way, we express our disagreement with the budgetary policy, which is non-social on the income side, and undeveloped on the expenditure side. As far as this law is concerned, we do not, in principle, oppose concrete solutions. The transfer of unused funds between items and the borrowing of municipalities to co-finance investments are reasonable measures, but the budget for 2016 and 2017 is not the first budget and this law is also not the first law on the implementation of budgets. The ever-new changes in this area and these types are thus a sign of genuine planning. With regard to additional assigned revenue, our general view is that dedicated revenue is a normal part of public finances. Contributions to health and pension insurance are also a dedicated resource, which, contrary to most taxes, is socially equitablely distributed while at the same time it is known why it can be used. The integrated budget, as I have already said, is far more unfair from the point of view of taxation and much less rational from the point of view of expenditure. That is why we supported the idea that part of the resources available to state forests are intended exclusively for investing in forests, not for the financing of NATO's rapid intervention forces. It also makes sense that dividends from electricity companies are devoted to investments in energy. What does not make sense in this regulation is a shift from energy to the budget and then back to energy. The electricity companies are state owned and in a country with normal governance of state-owned enterprises, all accumulation would by definition be used for public-interest investments, so they should not be withdrawn from state-owned companies and shared with private owners at the same time. If I leave aside fundamental reservations and accounting solutions, the objectives set could be achieved through the normal management of state property. Clearly, the coalition does not intend to ensure this, as the latest example of Luke Koper shows, and the appointment of SD Secretary Miha Marenchat as Director of the Forest Company. However, the implementation of the objectives is not guaranteed by this law, because it remains dependent on the coalition's decisions, so we do not have to support it, but we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia becomes more complex, opaque, some conglomerate and can be calculated by extrapolation when it will be the only budget document to regulate everything. I believe that even the current Minister of Finance wouldn't know exactly what this law governs. There's a contribution to RTV, there's state forests, and there's refugees, there's averages, there's pensions, and I don't know what else, there's a lot more, there's a lot more. We are therefore waiting for a wise, hardworking finance minister to cut this impossibility and put matters in the right place. The main objective of the law is, according to the proposaler, to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget and to pursue the objectives set in the implementation of programmes and projects. The proposed amendment allows for the possibility of additional State commitment to cover guaranteed bank deposits, if necessary. In doing so, let me reiterate my disappointment at the failure of the general debate coalition to resolve the recruitment arrangements of the supervisory councils of banks, which could prevent such coverage of future roles. Of course, I am referring to the amendment to the Banking Act, which was tabled in the Parliamentary Procedure by the New Slovenia Group. The draft law allows the reallocation of funds on the mass migration funds item, a new budget fund is recognised on the basis of the Forest Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. New assigned revenue is recognised, the first on the basis of this year's Forest Management Act for the benefit of the Forest Budget Fund, and the second on the basis of the expected increased payments of electricity dividends to the budget of the State to be used for the construction of water infrastructure. Given that the New Slovenia Group voted against the proposal of the Forest Management Act of 2 February this year, it is difficult for us to expect this time to support the proposed solution. The proposed amendment allows municipalities to be in charge of the scope laid down by the law governing the financing of municipalities, including the reimbursement of the cohesion policy funds required by the financial correction. The draft law also provides for a 90-day payment period for the reimbursement of cohesion policy funds on the basis of the financial correction made. In this regard, I should also draw attention to the State Council's concerns that it is not clear whether the measures relating to the functioning of municipalities support the interest associations of Slovenian municipalities. When we open an area governed by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we cannot go beyond the issue of the financing of local communities. In Novi Slovenije, we note the need to ensure the proportionality between the income of local communities on the one hand and the scope of the legal tasks of local communities on the other. It would therefore be imperative to increase the averages by means of this proposal for a new law. This should be due to the consequences of the Constitutional Court’s decision on rent subsidies, with which new high costs have been incurred for the municipality and the Government does not want to help them. We are in New Slovenia for this period from 1. 9. 2016 to 31. 12. 2016 proposed increased averages to 25.45 euros and for the financial year 2017 increased to 523.15 euros. Regrettably, however, the Government has not opened up the draft law in this area at all, indicating its ignorance in addressing these very important issues. In Novi Slovenija, we will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. IT IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AIRPORT LEGISLATION, IN ACCORDANCE WITH AN EMERGENCY PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act. By amending the fourth paragraph of Article 158 of the Aviation Act, we extend the legal and organisational form of operation of the airport. A change is necessary as this ensures the fulfilment of the public interest referred to in Article 1, paragraph 3, of this Law. In this way, the security and security of air traffic can be ensured for the airport of national importance of the Republic of Slovenia and for international air transport of the Government and for the airport of local importance of the local community. By adopting the law, we provide new forms of provision of services of general economic interest in which the airport operates. In addition to forms of economic public service, we introduce forms of services that are carried out under conditions in public-private partnership relations. If the operation of a public airport cannot be ensured under market conditions, airports of State importance, i.e. public airports for international air transport, in accordance with the European Union guidelines on State aid to airports and air carriers, will be able to obtain, if necessary, State aid in the form of financial assistance after meeting certain conditions. The current regime allows the operation of airports and the provision of services only under conditions of public economic service. The proposed arrangement will also allow the provision of services in other forms under the conditions and relations of the public-private partnership. In addition to the new legal and organisational forms of operation of the public airport, the amendment of Article 158, paragraph 4, of the Aviation Act introduces in the coming period almost ten years, that is, until 2024, also the possibility of obtaining aid for ongoing operations. In principle, operating aid can constitute a very distorted form of aid and can only be obtained in exceptional circumstances and where it does not interfere with the functioning of the internal market, i.e. the EU market. The demonstration of compliance with the condition of exceptional circumstances is detailed on the basis of the Altmark judgment and the EU guidelines on State aid to airports and air carriers. As the maximum amount of financial assistance granted to airports with an annual turnover of up to 700 000 passengers during the transitional period of the first 5 years is equal to 80 % of the expected financial gap in the operation of each airport. Following the expiry of this five-year period, it is necessary to regain the consent of the European Commission, which will allow specific treatment and funding for each public airport in such a way. Slovenia will have to notify the European Commission, prior to the start of the payment of funds to cover the expected financial gap of each public airport, as State aid compatible with the internal market. The amount of aid to each public airport operating on the market and at the same time cumulatively meeting all the criteria of Altmark will, in principle, be fixed by the State in advance before the application of this Article takes effect. This provision will, in the form of a fixed amount, be equal to the amount of the expected gap in the financing of the operation of the public airport for the whole time of the transitional period until 2024 at the most. In order to improve the offer and thus increase the competitiveness of airports in the European space, it is necessary to extend the services provided to Slovenian public airports so that they will not operate only at the discretion of the economic public service. Operation under the conditions of the economic public service as defined in the existing Aviation Act is not sufficient under the current market conditions. This form of service at Slovenian public airports does not provide an opportunity for equal economic development as comparable airports in Europe can. This is also evident from the geographical location of Slovenian public airports located near neighbouring airports, which do not have such restrictions on the status forms in which airports provide operations. Airports in neighbouring countries, Austria, Croatia, Italy, operate in more flexible forms of air services. We therefore consider that they are in a better economic situation and are making it easier to ensure territorial, economic and social cohesion within the Member States and within the Union through the integration of the regions. The new proposed status forms of service delivery at Slovenian public airports enable our regions to be better connected with Europeans. With the solution proposed, the current economic crisis and fiscal consolidation efforts will make it easier to find the right balance between the need for individual airports for competitiveness and balanced balance sheets and the social and regional needs to be met. In the new status forms in which public airports will operate, this will contribute more effectively and effectively to improving mobility and interregional connectivity. They will thus add their contribution to increasing the attractiveness of the Slovenian regions and this applies mainly to the area of tourism, as it has proved to be resistant to the economic crisis. This will also open up aspects of, or determine, economic policy that belong and promote tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u19	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 38th emergency meeting, on 7. 6. 2016 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 62nd meeting, on 26. 5. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Mag is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Klemen Grebenšek explained that they were 4. 4. New guidelines on State aid to airports and airlines have been published in 2014. The European Commission wanted to re-organise air transport, which is linked to the integration of people and regions and can also play a key role in the EU's connectivity and competitiveness with the world. The Guidelines also respond to the fact that all smaller airports with fewer than one million passengers per year were no longer able to finance their operations solely on market bases and were increasingly needed or relied on public support, which required a revision of the guidelines with a view to improving the competitiveness and growth potential of the airport industry and the air transport industry. Due to the provisions in the guidelines, there is a serious doubt in the position of the Ministry that the European Commission would agree that the operation of our airports of State importance, namely Portorož and Maribor, will ensure, as under the conditions of acceptance of the general economic importance. For this reason, amendments to Article 158 of the Law are proposed to allow the financing of airports of State importance in accordance with the guidelines. However, a more detailed procedure for verifying eligibility for State aid will be laid down by a regulation already prepared and aligned with both the proposed amendments and the guidelines. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service reiterated the concerns of this service in the written opinion. If I listed some of them: that is that the guidelines by their legal nature are not a binding act, the comment was also concerning the provision where the Government’s mandate is contained, which should be further upgraded and more specifically written, then with regard to the new fifth paragraph, where the content of the fourth paragraph is expanded by mentioning the organisational forms in which the operation of the public airport is ensured – here from the point of view of the ZPS is a disputed word "may". The Ministry also responded to these concerns. Mr Jernej Verbič, representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government, stressed in his presentation that the Commission supports the bill. In the debate between Members and Members following, support was expressed to the large extent for the purpose of the bill's proposal to provide State aid for the operation of airports of State importance in the future, but some expressed certain concerns about the solutions provided by the bill's proposal and the reasons for its adoption. After discussion in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u21	Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u22	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the country's strategic documents, the airport of Jožet Pučnik Ljubljana, the airport of Edward Rusjan Maribor and the airport of Portorož are defined as strategically important airports, which the State urgently needs to ensure the public interest of safe, regular and smooth air transport, which allows mobility of the population and the fulfilment of economic needs. Airport traffic at Portorož airport does not provide sufficient revenue for the normal operation of Aerodrom Portorož d.d., which ensures the operation and management of Portorož airport. The company has been in mixed ownership of public and private owners and has been creating losses for years and has already received State aid in the past. In addition, airport infrastructure at Portorož airport is not owned by the Republic of Slovenia but owned by other legal persons and therefore cannot be operated at Portorož Airport in the form of an economic public service as provided for in Article 158(4) of the applicable Aviation Act. The Aviation Act therefore introduces an amendment concerning the possibility of granting State aid in accordance with the European Guidelines on State aid to airports and air carriers, which were amended in 2014. In addition to this amendment, the amendment introduces a supplement which so far adds the only possibility of ensuring the operation of an airport in the form of an economic public service to the possibility of ensuring its operation under public-private partnership conditions laid down by the Law on Public-Private Partnerships. The adoption of the novel will thus prevent the negative consequences of the failure of Portorož airport and will allow for the smooth and competitive operation of all public airports in Slovenia in the future. It should be borne in mind that civil aviation can contribute significantly to the growth of the Slovenian economy, especially in the tourism sector. As a result of this, we will support the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Aviation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u23	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u24	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! We are probably all aware that aviation and airports are public infrastructure and must also be addressed in this way. The Aviation Act of the first paragraph of Article 158 provides, inter alia, that "The conversion of a public airport shall normally be provided under market conditions" and, in the fourth paragraph of this Article, "if the operation of an airport cannot be ensured to the extent and in the manner necessary to ensure the public interest referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, of this Law, it may be provided to airports of State importance by the Government and to airports of local importance by the local community", of course under conditions of economic public service. By amending the law, airports will also be able to provide for public interest in other legal forms such as those provided for by the Public-Private Partnership Act. These amendments to the Airports Act will allow for the smooth operation of airports, as airports will be given more opportunities for the provision of services and thus better opportunities for the provision of services on the market. The proposed amendments will allow public airports to finance the operation of the airport in exceptional circumstances even under market conditions by means of operating assets, of course all in accordance with the guidelines on State aid to airports and air carriers. In addition, airports will be able to ensure the operation necessary to ensure the public interest referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, of this Aviation Act in the extended legal and organisational forms of operation provided for in the Economic Services Act, namely, as a management establishment, a public economic institution, a public undertaking, under conditions in the context of a public-private partnership relationship. However, in accordance with the proposed solutions, the Ministry of Transport will publish a public call for the selection of a new public airport operator only if the operation of a public airport is provided in a status form and under the conditions laid down in the proposed amendment to the Aviation Act. As we estimate that there are minor changes to the law that will allow for the continued and smooth operation of airports, we will not oppose the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the amendment of the Aviation Act. It is intended to prepare such legal bases as will allow public airports to be granted State aid in accordance with the European Union guidelines on State aid to airports adopted in mid-2014. State aid can be provided under very exceptional circumstances and where the operation of a public airport cannot be provided under market conditions. In accordance with the above-mentioned European guidelines, aid to airports may be granted for 10 years, i.e. until April 2024, when all airports will have to be able to fully cover the costs of their operations. In Slovenia there are two airports that are in considerable financial difficulty, namely the airport in Portorož and the airport in Maribor. While both have already received State aid in the past, the adoption of the law will allow this aid to continue. Although Maribor Airport is in a slightly better position compared to Puerto Rican Airport, it has considerable potential to achieve positive business with a sufficient number of passengers. Puerto Rican, however, is in a more difficult situation, reaching only about 21,000 passengers a year. The difference between airports is also in infrastructure and land. In Portorož, the infrastructure is owned by different legal persons and most are owned by the municipality, while the airport in Maribor is practically wholly owned by the state and managed by a private company. Unfortunately, airports in our country can only operate under conditions of economic public service for the time being, which is obviously not sufficient in the current market situation, even if we judge by the amount of loss that both airports have produced. However, the economic public service does not allow for the same economic development as comparable airports in Europe that do not have such restrictions. It will therefore allow new status forms for Slovenian airports, as they will also be able to operate under conditions in the public-private partnership relations. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, this will allow for an increase in the attractiveness of the region, which is of exceptional importance in terms of tourism. The mobility of the population and, last but not least, the inter-regional linkage will improve. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, as I have already announced, we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u27	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u28	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law ahead of us is to the greatest extent governed by the financing of public airports of State importance. In view of the European Commission's revised guidelines and given the economic situation in which smaller airports are becoming increasingly competitive today, as well as their existing framework, it is particularly important that we ensure the possibility of maintaining the connectivity of the Republic of Slovenia to increase its economic potential, both logistical and in terms of people's mobility, and in particular that we extend the scope of operation of our national airports, which have so far been or are still limited to economic public service. It is necessary to modernise the possibilities of competing with neighbouring airports and to avoid being forced to operate within an economic framework that does not give them the opportunity to further develop and grow. In this context, this law is one of those in which we hope that a broader consensus can be reached and that it actually brings only what we should do and adopt sooner or later, so we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u29	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The aviation law should have been radically amended years ago. In 2012, the Agency for Civil Aviation proposed, in a letter to the competent ministry, an amendment to more than 60 articles of this Act, with amendments of a technical nature and some proposals for coordination with European directives. None of the suggestions have changed. However, the Government has proposed a law for adoption following an emergency procedure, which we are considering today. Following the adoption of this Act, the Government or the local community, in the form of a public-private partnership, will be able to ensure the operation of the public airport to the extent and in the manner necessary to ensure public interest. So far, this has only been possible in the form of an economic public service. The law is thus adopted under the pretext of adapting the guidelines on State aid to airports and air carriers issued by the European Commission, although these guidelines are not legally binding. The explanation given by the Ministry's representatives in this regard for the treatment on the home labour body raises additional questions more than the explanations. The law further repeals the Regulation on concessions for the implementation of the economic public service of the public airport of Portorož, thereby demonstrating the real purpose of this law. The privatisation of the Portorož Aerodrome has been taking place for some time in the background, which is the only interstate airport with us, which is not yet in majority private ownership. Serbian businessman Miodrag Kostic is the main buyer. According to the director of the Portoro airport, Kostic is interested in buying up the ownership shares of the Portorož Aerodrome, although, the quote, "is aware that I cannot expect high returns," the end of the quote. With public-private partnership, the government will allow a higher yield. In the current form of a public service, the airport of Portorož operates without creating profits, but is part of the infrastructure to support the economy. As with the construction of the second track, it is a fact that no one will go into a public-private partnership unless there is a possibility of making a profit and that is the point of this law – to create the conditions under which the new owner of the Portorož Aerodrome will be allowed to make a fortune at the expense of the country's larger expenditure to ensure public interest at this airport. The calculation is simple: the price of the public-private partnership is the price of the current public economic service plus the profit of the private owner. The price for the country will therefore be higher logically in the form of a public-private partnership than it is now. The government refers to public interest when it comes to the operation of our international airports. This is undoubtedly large, since there are no other economic sectors and activities involved in their operation, and most obviously tourism. However, the public interest will not play a role when the State of the airport privatises. The proposed law is nothing more than the continuation of the privatisation of airports; the airports to which you promised that the open market would work better, that the private owner would be better off, that he would find a way to generate profits where the country did not exist before and so on. Instead, the state is now looking for a way to create profits for private owners. In the past, the state has helped state airports, an important part of state infrastructure, will now help private people, will help them create profits. This law is therefore nothing more than a basis for an increased flow of public money into the pockets of private owners of privatised airports. That is why we will oppose the adoption of this law in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u31	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u32	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The government proposal for the amendment to the Aviation Act, which is ahead of us today, stipulates that public-private partnership can be used in the operation of airports in addition to the form of economic public service. In Italy and Croatia and in France, airport operations are regulated in a similar way, i.e. the operation of public airports under market conditions, public-private partnership and public service conditions. Another important novelty of the bill is the definition of the form of emergency financial assistance to airports. The proposed amendments will allow public airports to operate under exceptional circumstances also under conditions of operation on the financing market by means of ongoing operating aid in accordance with the guidelines on State aid to airports and air carriers. The proposal for a law also provides for the repeal of the Regulation on concessions for the implementation of the economic public service of the airport of Portorož, as a form of public-private partnership would be possible under the new regime and the economic public service is inappropriate under European law for that airport. New forms of service delivery of general economic interest, in which the airport operates, are also forms of services carried out under public-private partnership conditions in addition to forms of economic public service. If the operation of a public airport cannot be ensured under market conditions, airports of State importance may obtain State aid in the form of financial assistance to airports and air carriers, in so far as is necessary when certain conditions are met. The current regime allowed the operation of airports and the provision of services only under conditions of economic public service and will allow the provision of services in other forms, under conditions and in public-private partnerships. In our view, the proposed changes are welcome as they offer more opportunities to improve supply, develop infrastructure and thus increase airport competitiveness. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u33	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u34	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representative of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the amendment of the law because without this change in the law of the airport, we would have problems for normal operation. This novel practically creates the legal basis for the granting of state aid, which will be in line with the European Union guidelines. Therefore, airports need State aid and it is right that this grant of State aid is also legally regulated, as it may otherwise come to receive unlawful State aid, resulting in recovery and, last but not least, in the operation of these airports. These two airports are, I can say, very important for Slovenia because of its competitiveness both in the field of the whole economy and, above all, I would like to highlight tourism here, because, finally, because of these airports, we will also be more easily accessible to guests from remote regions. That is why we expect this amendment to receive a great deal of support for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR A SUPPLEMENT AND AMENDMENT OF THE WINE LEGISLATION AFTER A SHORT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. The bill is at the 15th session of the 26th session. 5. 2016 treated the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the Wine Act in order to re-enable the sale of unboiled wine in a growing area where certain wines are produced and to reduce the high penalties for small vineyards, which mean only intimidation, are disproportionately high in relation to the amount of the offence. In 2013, at the initiative of the Association of Family Winegrowers of Slovenia and the so-called Wine Society of Slovenia, the Government introduced a law with a pretext to limit the grey economy and make order in this area and limit unfair competition. It was just a pretence. It is not a grey economy, because no excise duty is paid for wine, all taxes are paid with vineyards, with the calculation of cadastral income and income. So it's not about any grey economy, it's not about any unfair competition, it's about the opposite; this law has ruled out the loyal competition of small vineyards, by making it impossible to sell in inn restaurants, in in inn facilities, so to speak, selling unboiled wine, but we know what catering facilities are; they're not just innhouses where there's a lot of running, or wine running, but everything else. Thus, this law has only accelerated the abandonment of the processing of vineyards, as it grows annually in Slovenia about 600 hectares of vineyards. It excluded the sale of small market surpluses of small vineyards, since bottled for a small quantity is extremely expensive, so the production of grapes on these small vineyards is about 2 euros per kilogram of grapes and the tendency of larger vineyards is, in addition to the elimination of the loyal competition of small vineyards, also to buy from small vineyards, where the production of grapes costs 2 euros, by 0.6 or 0.7 euros. Since a small winegrower cannot sell his wine, he is forced to resell the grapes or stop this activity. That is why we have introduced the law to put it into its original state, because the state of Slovenia or the responsible ministry should be aware that small wine growers, in addition to producing very quality wines, especially by hand, also maintain the cultural landscape. Here, the Minister of Economy boasts that when foreign states travel through Slovenia, they visit Slovenia and praise how we have a beautiful landscape, what opportunities for the development of tourism and so on. On the other hand, this same government is subject to the interests of a smaller number of major winegrowers, who by this law destroy these small vineyards and consequently increase the abandonment of vineyards in Slovenia. In addition, 80 hectares of state vineyards grow only in Vipavska, and the government does nothing. That is why I think that this policy is wrong, that our marriage was good, and we will try to do so again. The government must not only listen to larger vineyards or larger farmers, as this is why they also grow in other areas of agricultural land, not only in the field of wine-growing. We are therefore sorry that the other groups of Members have not supported this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u37	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u38	Dear President, distinguished representative of the government! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Wine Act. One of the main reasons why Members and Members of the Desus Group did not support the proposal for the amendment of the Wine Law is that the proposal is most opposed by the winegrowers and the winemakers, who are also most concerned by this law. We agree with their concerns that the re-authorisation of unboiled wine in innhouses and the reduction of penalties for offences would once again increase unfair competition among winemakers, which was the root cause of the amendment of the law in 2013. At the time of the adoption of the law in force, precisely with a view to limiting unfair competition, we supported the proposal in our parliamentary group, since the vineyards had already demanded restrictions, and this proposal for a novelty, which is before us, has been lifted. The current ban on unboiled wine was coordinated at the time of reception with a number of representatives of winemakers who met unfair competition on the ground and therefore requested action from the competent ministry. The increase in fines to the current height was also proposed by the winemakers at the time. The novelty proposal would reduce fines, but only for large producers, while for small ones it would remain the same. Following the adoption of the applicable law, registration in the register of winegrowers and winegrowers has increased significantly, demonstrating that the law has indeed contributed to the reduction of unfair competition. As the representatives of the winegrowers and the winegrowers presented during the discussion on the working body, and we agree with them, Slovenian wines are extremely quality, so they deserve an appropriate packaging that preserves this quality. The ratio of customers is also better to wine, which is in quality packaging. We also agree with this opinion of winegrowers and winemakers that the adoption of the law would be a big step backwards. It has already grown annually, as mentioned earlier, from 500 to 600 hectares of vineyards, so it is necessary to allow vineyards and winemakers to be respected and properly valued, which will encourage them to maintain their vineyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u39	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you once again for the word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will not support the proposal for a law on the supplementation and amendment of the Wine Act, which has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure by Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because we are assessing that the proposal for a Law on Supplementation and Amendments to the Wine Act is unnecessary, since, according to our belief and also according to the profession, the wine can be placed on the market or sold to the final consumer. The proposal that is currently under consideration would certainly lead to unfair competition among winemakers, which is the greatest damage, which generally affects the quality of wine and consequently the relationship to the user, which is certainly not what we want in Slovenia, when we want to penetrate the most demanding markets with our quality wines. In doing so, it is very important to ensure adequate consumer safety and, above all, to inform the consumer of the origin of wine and, last but not least, this leads to even greater quality in the future. Also as regards the fines they wish to reduce in this proposal, we would like to stress that the proposed penalties have been reduced by half and, as such, adopted by the amendment of the law. The last amendment of the law also achieved the proportionality of fines according to the size of the producer, the extent of the infringement and also the gravity of the offence. We believe that this solution has been adequately resolved in the law in force so far. Nor does the law support both the Association of Winemakers and Winegrowers and the Agricultural-Parent Chamber of Slovenia and the profession, which is why, as I said in the introduction, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u41	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, the last Port of the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, again. The proposed amendment to the Wine Act was intended to remove the ban on the pouring of unboiled wine in guest houses and to reduce the penalties for offences related to the pouring of unbleached wine. In essence, the proposers want to achieve an end to those provisions which were introduced into the law in 2013. The applicants say that this ban represents higher costs in preparing wine for the market for small vineyards. However, all wine growers, both small and large, supported the previous novel. In fact, wine growers have even taken the initiative of a novelty aimed at increasing the share of wine production applications and limiting unfair competition in registered wine production. The main principles for the adoption of the previous novel were protection of grape growers and consumer protection. The novelty was supported by all residential organizations of both large and small producers: the Agricultural-land chamber, the Association of Family Vineyards, large vineyard growers and also non-market grape growers. The ban on pours of unboiled wine was opposed only by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because this ban was intended to go to the detriment of the innkeepers who poured unboiled wine. The current regime already allows the sale of unboiled wine to registered grape growers offering wine from their own production plant. In addition, the guests can pour wine from the barcomats and inox containers. In the United Left Group, we believe that the existing regime is good and that no concrete data has been presented by the applicants to prove that wine growing in Slovenia suffers from the ban on the pouring of unbleached wine. In our view, the only ones who could benefit from the proposed novel are the innkeepers who would be able to lift the ban from machination and fraud. Above all, the proposed novel will contain the proposed penalties for offenders, where the law actually goes against small vineyards everywhere. The law reduces penalties for large and medium-sized producers in particular. For these growers, penalties are reduced radically, while the maximum penalties for small producers remain the same and the lowest penalties are reduced for small producers only in rare cases. If I go to specific numbers. For the worse offenses committed by large producers producing grapes, musts, wine as other products as a natural person, the new law penalizes between €100 and €300. The penalty for the same offence for medium-sized farmers is between €850 and €000,700, for small producers – watch out! – from 650 to 6,000 EUR 500. It is said, for large between a thousand and a thousand 300, for medium from 850 to a thousand 700, for small from 650 to 6 thousand 500. In short, smaller than a farmer, a higher sentence is at risk. This is just one case of anomaly in this law. In the United Left, we therefore believe that the proposed novel will not improve the position of wine growing in Slovenia; rather, the opposite. The proposed amendments to the higher penalties are totally unacceptable, so we cannot support such novelties on wine in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u43	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u44	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The wine law currently in force provides that only the wine can be placed on the market of the final consumer with an original charge. While it is an exception that non-originally loaded wine can only be placed on the market by wine growers who offer wine from their own production in their production plant. Members of New Slovenia did not support this latest change in 2013. Let us recall that the stakeholders were divided as to the solutions proposed and subsequently implemented. The SDS applicants propose to amend these provisions by extending the exemption to catering establishments offering country wine from the area, while at the same time proposing a restriction on the existing exemption for wine growers, which, in accordance with the proposal of the law, could offer only non-original wine to the final consumer in their production plant. The proposer also proposes lowering the limits of the prescribed fines. Freedom is one of the highest values of Christian democracy and the current law does not respect it to an acceptable extent. The ban on pouring unboiled or open homemade wine impoverished the tourist offer in our wine-growing areas and thus deters guests. As already warned by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia in 2013, the area in the comparable countries of the European Union is much more flexible, flexible, local wine growers and innkeepers, yet it allows for close supervision. From everything mentioned in the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u45	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u46	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not support the amendment of the law because we estimate that we would take a big step back. Similar opinions are the Association of Family Winegrowers - Winegrowers of Slovenia, the Association of Winegrowers and Winemakers of Slovenia, the Wine Society of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Agricultural Advisory Service. If the profession and those most called to do so oppose these changes, it means that such a novelty does not deserve our support. What, though, can be done to improve the situation in the field of winemaking? It is certainly necessary to seek solutions within and in other areas to create better living conditions for carrying out complementary activities. Here I am thinking of improving the administrative and tax environment. Here we see great opportunities to take a step, and this quality step forward. This is of paramount importance, because it is only in this way that we can compete with the other regions, from which we also expect and we already have the most visits of tourists. That is why we expect not to go beyond this law, but to continue working in this area so that we can find the solutions that I have pointed out as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! We have made a great effort in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to verify in all possible ways whether there is any possibility of supporting at least partially the efforts of the proposer. We have found that they are pursuing two fundamental objectives; they want to allow unboiled wine to be poured in the guesthouses; they want to enable small vineyards to sell unbleached wine without unnecessary additional costs; and they want to reduce penalties for offences. In a lively debate, we have found that the applicants want to return to the situation in 2006, when the Wine Act was passed. The first major amendment of the law was adopted in 2013, and in addition to compliance with European legislation, changes were intended to limit the grey economy. In 2013, all important stakeholders in the field of wine-growing and wine-growing at that time unanimously supported the changes in the law, and the causes are still the same today. Actors do not see today any need to change the law in force, as has been pointed out several times before. They believe that the proposal would lead to an increase in unfair competition between winemakers and broaden the possibilities for developing a grey wine economy. The adoption of the proposed novel would be a step backwards and would undermine efforts to improve the quality of Slovenian wine, which we believe is our common goal. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we point out that the maintenance of the grey wine market makes no contribution to the national economy. Moreover, they do not have to invest in brands, nor do they contribute in any way to the consolidation of Slovenia in the wine market. Therefore, it is not possible to agree to the logic of a party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, who wants to avoid the control of the grey wine market, especially if we are aware that we have sectoral measures to limit the grey economy in the production of wine also set out in the strategy for the management of the grey economy. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we advocate both consumer protection and the protection of grape and wine producers, so we advocate and insist on the initial amendments to the Wine Act 2013 as we increase our control to protect the consumer from misleading the origin and quality of wine and to the producers of grapes and wines against unfair competition. We warn that unboiled wine is more susceptible to errors. In the past, we have witnessed many frauds by the innkeepers who mixed or added another wine to unboiled wine. Deception occurred mainly in origin, which means that there was quite some immeasurable wine, with wine coming from abroad within. We have encountered cases where the sale of one wine has been marked, and another wine has been sold, making it significantly more difficult for the wine bottled, where the farmer is often identified by the label. On the basis of the above arguments, despite the maximum efforts made, we did not have to find reasons to support the proposed amendments to the Wine Act. We believe that the aim that you actually want to achieve can also be achieved within the existing Wine Act and that the sales to which we have been most attentive are in no way distorted and, of course, small producers can still sell their wines in the premises where this is envisaged and in the manner stipulated by the law. Therefore, of course, we will not support amendments to the law and we will vote against the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u49	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the law on legal remedies after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill of Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u50	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Youths in the Republic of Slovenia often have problems in their efforts to realize their own talents due to an uncompetitive economic environment. That is why in New Slovenia we strongly condemned the act and decision of the Slovenian Chamber of Lawyers in April this year, since the Slovenian Chamber of Lawyers, with the aim of strengthening the monopoly cecho position, has dared young lawyers to increase their registration rate by EUR 2 000 500, which has so far been EUR 9 000. A young lawyer has low incomes on the one hand during this life period, and often has high costs by regulating the housing problem, buying a car, establishing a family, and so on. However, the Chamber of Lawyers decided to charge a young man an additional EUR 9,000 in all this so that he could enter the labour market on his own. All of this happened in the year we celebrated the 25-year-old independent country; the country in which we gave up the oppression of creativity and monopolies, which belong at some other time. Christian Democrats want times in which young people can create their own future with their own hands, and the Bar Association has tied their hands to young lawyers this year, April 2016. That is why, at the proposal of the young man New Slovenia - Young Slovenia, we have submitted a new Law on Lawyering, which limits the level of registration to a maximum of one average monthly gross salary. There have been reports of an intervention by our proposal in the constitutional right of the Bar to autonomy. At the same time, many have forgotten that our Constitution also enshrines the right to free economic initiative and the right to freedom of work. Some have also forgotten that the Bar is not only a regular society, but it is in its power to impose entry barriers to entry into the legal profession which directly interfere with the constitutional rights of young lawyers. At times, there was an impression in the debate that some were concerned only about the independence of the Bar and that young people's right to a free economic initiative was not important. On the other hand, the compatibility of our proposal with the Constitution has also been confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The proposal for a novel Law on Lawyers has put pressure on the Bar. Its assembly, just one day before the envisaged consideration of this bill at the home work body, reduced the level of the entry to EUR 3,000. The Chamber of Lawyers has lost confidence and therefore a long-term and reliable solution is needed to prevent any further attempts to limit competition in the future. In our view, the amount of €500 for young people's opportunities is also much more appropriate than the amount of €3,000. Harmonisation with the cost of living, which represents a step-by-step increase of 20%, is inappropriate. On the other hand, the membership in the Chamber amounts to about €360. Thus, a lawyer can slowly pay the amount that a young lawyer has to pay at the beginning of his own trip through his membership fees for 8 years. The experience of elevating our registration has convinced us that the best solution to this problem is the legal limitation of height and thus preventing possible repressive treatment of young people and competition between lawyers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u51	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u52	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, the Committee, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law presented by Mrs Iva Dimic as a proponent. In her introductory discussion, she stressed that it gave the existing legal regime to the Slovenian Bar Association the possibility that, without restriction, it would provide for a registration fee for lawyers, while at the same time increasing the entry fee from EUR 2 000 500 to EUR 9 000 adopted by the Assembly of this Chamber in April 2016 represented a significant difficulty in accessing lawyers to a lawyer's profession, which she considered inappropriate and unacceptable, and therefore the proposal for a law as the upper limit of the entry set the amount of the average monthly gross salary in the last month in the Republic of Slovenia. In the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, when considering such a bill, it should also be considered whether the possibility of entering a lawyer's register should be determined at legal level or whether any other solution is possible, since the present solution is only provided for in the Statute of the Bar of Slovenia. In a further presentation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice assessed that the Ministry and Government were in favour of the objectives of the law, as the current legal regime allows the Bar Chamber to determine the level of the registration in the legal catalogue without limitation, which proved to be an exceptional case in the Assembly. However, since the Government has assessed that the restriction of the proposed law of New Slovenia is not in accordance with Article 137 of the Constitution, it has also proposed an amendment whereby the level of admission to the Chamber of Lawyers is regulated by the statute of this Chamber, which is confirmed by the Government. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the State Council for the national regulation of the draft law does not support and assesses that the amendments are not necessary in this way and that they are premature. Mr Tin Kampl, President of the Slovenian Youth Council, expressed his support for the bill and stressed that restricting the entry of young people into the labour market by such arbitrary proceedings of the Chambers was unacceptable and contrary to the highlighted importance of intergenerational solidarity and the creation of equal opportunities. The President of the Bar Association supported the reduction of the registration, which was accepted by the Chamber itself. 6. Therefore, in her view, the proposed amendments to the law were no longer necessary. She estimated that it was enough for the Bar to handle the matter on its own. However, Mr Završek, President of the Bar, stressed that neither the proposaler nor the Government had consulted the Chamber on amendments, and he felt that both the solution of the motioner and the amendments of the Government were non-systematic and unconstitutional and that they were interfering with the autonomy of the Chamber and the Bar Association, which, if necessary, would also trigger a dispute in the Constitutional Court. In the debate of Members and Members, a number of specific issues were raised, including the dilemma related to public authority and the level of the entry set at EUR 9 000, and the constitutionality of such proposals for solutions, both governmental and the proposal of the proposer, but in the end, with 11 votes in favour and none against, it was assessed that the amendment of the Government to Article 1 was acceptable, so that the amendment of New Slovenia became irrelevant and the committee adopted the proposals of the articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u53	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the original proposal of a group of Members is following the right objective and is based on the correct assumption that the current regulation gives the Chamber the possibility to set a registration without restriction in the lawyer's directory, which has also allowed for an excellent withdrawal of the entry in April this year. However, the original solution proposed by the Government is not consistent with the constitutional definition of the lawyer or her disproportionate interference. In our opinion, however, the solution is not adequately placed, as the statute of the Chamber and not the law governs the issue of the provision of funds for the work of the Chamber in accordance with the current regulation. However, since we believe that the issues relating to the registration in the lawyers' directory need to be systematically regulated for the future, we have proposed amendments to the text of the bill adopted by the Committee on Justice. We therefore propose that, in Article 31 of the Law on Lawyers, it be stipulated that the registration for registration in the lawyer's register and its height shall be governed by the statute of the Bar. The decision on the level of the registration will thus continue to be left to the residence organisation and the public interest will be protected in the procedure for the adoption of the Statute of the Bar Association, as agreement of the Government is required in accordance with the applicable regulation of the Statute of the Chamber. When it comes to legal matters in the field of lawyering, we always face the issue of the constitutional opinion that the defence is a self-serving and independent service. We are aware that the autonomy of the autonomous association of lawyers is a prerequisite for the independence and autonomy of lawyers and must be respected as such. However, membership in the Chamber for Lawyers in the Bar is compulsory, which is provided by the Chamber with a monopoly. Moreover, the Chamber of Public Powers is a chamber of public powers, which is why its autonomy has its limitations, which are dictated by the public interest. It is quite an express public interest that this Chamber, as the Government's Office notes with legislation in its report, separates it from others. And if the public interest is not guaranteed by the Bar, it is the duty of the competent Ministry and the Government to react. The proposal before you therefore introduces a so-called cooperative model between the state and the law firm. This means, not an authoritarian and unilateral limitation of the level of the registration, but a dialogue between the Bar Association and the Government, which will ensure that the individual decision on the level of the registration will not prevent young lawyers from accessing the legal profession. At the same time, a transitional provision is proposed by means of a proposal for a law whereby, pending the implementation of the statute of the Chamber, which will duly provide for the entry into and the level of the register of lawyers, the amount of the entry in force on 1 April of this year shall apply. While we welcome the conclusion of the Extraordinary Assembly of the Bar Association of 1 June this year, that the entry should be reduced to EUR 3 000, we nevertheless insist on the proposed solutions and believe that the entry issue should be resolved systematically. In view of all of the above, we assess that the proposed legislative framework meets the constitutional requirement for the independence and independence of the judiciary, the need to protect public interest and the relevant system-wide regulation of the area, and therefore it is necessary to adopt an amendment to the law which is before you, which will also provide for a future question of determining the level of registration in the lawyers' directory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u55	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State. Dear Members and Members! The reason why we are considering today's amendment to the Law on Lawyers is the decision of the Bar to increase the registration fee for lawyers from the EUR 2 000 500 currently in force to the incredible EUR 9 000. Such a drastic increase was decided at a meeting held in April of this year. Following a boisterous response and numerous criticisms both the profession and the public, the proponents tabled a amendment to the Law on Lawyering with a proposal to determine the amount of the average monthly gross salary in the Republic of Slovenia last month. Last December, this one amounted to slightly less than EUR 1,000 600. In the Desus Group, with the move of the Bar that practically raises the level of the entry overnight, we do not agree. In the Desus Group, we put special care and attention into the weakest members of our society. This increase, however, makes it difficult to enter the legal profession primarily for those lawyers who come from socially weaker environments. For a lot of young people, studying is already a big financial asset. Young lawyers desiring to pursue a career as a lawyer must pass a demanding legal examination after a successful study in order to finally obtain the opportunity to carry out their own profession. If someone exerts so much effort, he should be allowed to carry out the profession for which he has been trained. Regrettably, the move of the Bar is restrictive and de facto prevents access to membership in the Chamber mainly for young lawyers. Lawyers do not have high salaries and, if they are limited to such a high registration, few will be able to get a lawyer's job. Of course, we also understand the arguments of the Chamber of Counsel that education is financed from the entries and that it was last raised 13 years ago, but I repeat that such a drastic increase is not acceptable. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines lawyers as a self-serving and independent service, which means that the Chamber is autonomous in deciding on the level of registrations, but in the Desus Group we believe that regardless of the independence of the lawyer, public interest must also be safeguarded. The entry should not be so high as to be able to be paid only by individual wealthy candidates. In addition, we have the right of citizens and citizens to choose between lawyers and to limit competition in the field of lawyering by setting too high a registration. Despite the pressure from the public at the assembly at the beginning of this month to reduce the entry to €3,000, in the Desus Group we believe it is necessary to adopt a bill to prevent similar attempts at drastic increases in the entry. In the Desus Group, we therefore support the amended proposal for a law which provides for the registration to be laid down in the Statute of the Bar Association and for the protection of public interest to be provided by the Government's consent to the Statute. In the Desus Group, we support the solution that, pending the adoption of the statute of the Bar Association, which will determine the level of the registration, the amount applicable before the April amendment is EUR 2 000 500. In accordance with the proposal set out in the Desus Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u57	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u58	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Even during yesterday's almost 15-hour debate, we were united in some things, regardless of the opinions, views and views of this assembly, and this is that everyone, especially vulnerable groups and young people, must have the same opportunities and opportunities to create an existential framework and the ability to live a decent life from their honest work. One of the main global challenges is how to ensure sustainable jobs for young people, how to create an environment where, through their own responsibility, they can also take care of their jobs, and how to prevent different forms of exploitation of young people, either through free traineeships, pre-care and other forms of non-standard and unsustainable forms of employment. Many of these challenges were met during the crisis and after the crisis with a number of measures and legislative proposals from the Youth Guarantee to active employment policies, all the way to limiting free traineeships in public administration. That is why the more unacceptable move of the Slovenian Bar Association, which with one stroke, with the establishment of an entry fee of EUR 9 000, which, of course, we believe that the majority of lawyers and lawyers did not agree, but with those present at the assembly, made it impossible for many young people to access this profession; access to the possibility that they would create their own existing framework through their knowledge. And regardless of the autonomy we respect, it is the role of the legislator, the task of the policy to reach out and ensure equal opportunities in such cases for those who do not have a material basis to carry or survive such lifts, and to prevent the possibility of being the best in their profession from being conditioned first by whether your family has the opportunity to provide materially the first step. The condition for being successful and good must be your own will, knowledge, performance and hard work, but not whether your parents, your parents, have previously created enough for you to participate in this game to pay or buy. Notwithstanding the fact that the Bar Association, with its second Assembly itself in the substantive part, corrected the error of the First Assembly, which raised the entry fee to EUR 9,000, it was made clear that, through its autonomy, it could, at any time and any time, in the light of its own interests or the interests of those present, extend to the fundamental rights to decent work and to the equality of young people or to those less young people who decide to enter the legal profession. For this reason, the Social Democrats support the amendment bill proposed by the Government, as we consider it appropriate for the latter to be a solution which on the one hand allows for the preservation of the autonomy of the defence, which is right, and on the other hand, to take care of corrective action in the event of re-excellent acts. We estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a suitable institution, which is not least appointed by the National Assembly, in which we are sitting representatives and representatives of people, so this is a legal guarantee that the autonomy of lawyers will not at the same time be an opportunity to close this act or to intervene in the fundamental rights and dignity of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u59	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The law that we are considering today is due to the decision of the Assembly of the Bar Association of Slovenia, as we have already heard, to decide to raise the registration fee for the lawyer's book to the incredible EUR 9 000. Despite the fact that the congregation was on June 1st. 2016 adopted a new decision reducing the entry to EUR 3,000, and we cannot pretend that this unacceptable withdrawal did not occur. If the trial of the Bar did not succeed this time, the question is what would happen if the decision did not come up with such a strong response and, above all, with the opposition of the public. Most likely, after a new legal profession, he would be available only to those young people from wealthy families. If we are to prevent this from happening in the future, we must do so at the legal level. I promise the Bar Association that such an event will no longer take place, it is simply not possible to believe, even if we consider their resistance to any change in this area. The Bar Association has already announced a constitutional dispute, even though the law after the adoption has been completed by the Governments and coalitions on the level of the registration does not speak at all. All that is written in the law today is that the Registry must determine the registration and its height in its statute. But it's obviously too much for the chamber. There is only one argument on the part of the Bar: in their view, it is an unacceptable intervention in the independence and autonomy of the Bar, which is established at the level of the Constitution. Here we certainly have to wonder what this independence and autonomy really mean. In the United Left, we do not accept the argument that this provision of the Constitution means that lawyers must be entitled to all kinds of privileges. The purpose of this provision is completely different. The independence and independence of lawyers must be ensured in order to protect the parties in the proceedings. This provision protects only the interests of the parties, not the privileges of the lawyers they represent. This is also the only logical explanation for this constitutional provision. We live in a system where citizens and citizens can only be represented by a lawyer before the courts, and that is why the state is the one that has to regulate the area of legal representation so that everyone has access to legal services. But these options are increasingly limited. Socially weak people have fewer opportunities from year to year to provide appropriate legal advice and representation when they need it. Increasingly expensive legal services and calls for an increase in already high legal fees, the decision of the government and coalition to cut down the right to free legal aid and abolish free legal advice is just a few missed proposals or solutions that further deepen the feeling that we have two legal states in Slovenia; one for the rich and the other for the poor. Unfortunately, such an opinion is increasingly justified. In the maze of legal regulations and writings we face in our daily lives, an individual can quickly find himself in a hopeless situation without adequate legal assistance. In the case of the materially weak, this happens much earlier. In practice, for example, it happens that an individual receives a decision on the enforcement of an apartment. If such an individual fails to find appropriate legal assistance or is unable to afford it, he will soon miss out on all options to prevent the sale of the apartment and the resulting assignment. On the other hand, someone who, with financial and legal experts, hides his property will certainly not and will not be able to do so when represented by a dear lawyer. In such cases, no reference shall be made to the independence and independence of the legal profession. It is the country that has to solve this problem, and it is the country that can ensure that all have equal opportunities to protect their rights. This can only be ensured by amending legislation. However, it is also an increase of EUR 9 000, which would in any event severely reduce the possibility of entry into the legal profession, a clear indicator of the situation within the legal community. In view of the fact that the congregation does not have specific provisions on concoction, a handful of individuals can make such changes. For only 63 out of a total of about a thousand 700 lawyers accepted the lift. All of this clearly points to the need for legislative changes and a change that will ensure that the profession of a lawyer is not only accessible to wealthy family members, is necessary and justified. That's why we're going to support her in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Tina Brecelj, distinguished colleague and distinguished colleague! The creation of an environment in which young people will be able to achieve their creativity and knowledge through their work is one of the most important objectives of New Slovenia. That is why our young youth, Young Slovenia, has prepared a response to the increased registration in the lawyer directory. This measure is in the form of a novel Law on Lawyers today. The proposed solution is very clear: the entry should be limited to the amount of one average monthly gross salary. The amount of the registration fee in the lawyer's directory acts as an entry barrier to the performance of the lawyer's profession and therefore, in accordance with the constitutional rights of the free economic initiative and the freedom of work, the legal limitation of this registration to the amount of the average monthly gross salary is proportionate. When we place on the scale the right of the Lawyer's Chamber to autonomy on the one hand and the right of young people to free economic initiative on the other hand, the priority for New Slovenia is clear: young people in Slovenia need freedom in their work, not oppression of such or other chambers. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop maintaining such a social situation, a social relationship that would paralyze the potential of successful and talented people. The government amendment to the draft law provides for a regime whereby the Government will decide whether or not the level of the registration is appropriate. While the Government's proposal means a step forward compared to the current state of affairs, in our view it would be a better legal limitation of height. The final prevention of restrictions on competition in lawyers remains in the hands of every successive government. There will certainly be an increase in the pressure on the government of those who are in the interest of a higher registration. How much of this pressure the future governments will endure, we do not know. Moreover, there is no governmental view of what height it should be. On the other hand, the legal limitation on the level of the entry is a concrete, reliable and definitive solution to the problem of restricting competition. In New Slovenia today we are warning and predicting that we will continue to monitor the situation closely in this area. If the government agrees in the future to make an excellent increase in the entry, as has happened this time, we will re- table the bill, and this is a very decisive intention. Although the solution from the government amendment is not as reliable as our original proposal, it follows the same objective. In New Slovenia, we are happy, satisfied and grateful for the constructive debate and support of all parliamentary groups. We are also pleased that our proposal supports the Youth Council of Slovenia. The unification of the coalition and opposition in support of the Law on New Slovenia's Attorneyship must mean a step towards a more normal Slovenia. The lower entry means greater competitiveness and at the same time better opportunities for young able lawyers, irrespective of their financial background. The Chamber should be financed mainly by a lawyer's membership, not by a lawyer's application. The criteria for entering young people among lawyers should be knowledge and ability, not money. It is quite clear that Members of New Slovenia will, of course, support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mag. Liliana Kozlovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! So, we're facing a situation where the Lawyers' Chamber unreasonablely raised the registration, i.e. from EUR 2 000 500 to EUR 9 000. Although it later reduced to 3,000 euros, I think the whole public as well as the professional public were somewhat surprised and also concerned. The applicant proposed that the amount of the registration be determined directly in the law and thus limited to the amount not exceeding the average monthly gross salary in the last month, in December, in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we share the same view that this issue needs to be addressed, but we disagree with the way in which we deal with the proposalr and, in fact, we differ in this part. On the contrary, we know that it is a lawyer, as it were, who is enshrined in the Constitution, that it is a self-serving and independent service. Its fundamental purpose, as well as its public authority, is given to provide people with paid legal assistance to protect constitutional categories, especially human rights, and we believe that this also guarantees the freedom of an individual who can protect his status by means of a lawyer. That is why we believe that regulation directly in the law, as proposed by the proposer, can constitute an intervention in autonomy. We have also relied on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which in one case has already been delivered and directly stated. In substance, the independence of the legal service relates to the regulation of matters relating to the situation of lawyers and their housing organisations. The legislator must undoubtedly address these issues, but not exhaustively, but should leave certain issues to autonomous regulation within the legal profession. We therefore support the proposed amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which preserves the independence and independence of the Slovenian Bar Association and of this profession, but stipulates that this issue must be settled in the Statute and will be addressed by the Government, which is responsible for public interest. At the same time, the law will ensure that the entry remains at the level previously established until this issue is resolved, as proposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We are back to independence and independence and expertise. We also discussed this yesterday: independence, independence, expertise. Independently, independently and professionally, the Bar Association decided 10 and a few years ago that the entry fee was EUR 2 000 500. A few months ago, a separate, independent and professional Chamber of Counsel determined that the entry amounted to EUR 9 000. Nine thousand euros! The single richest lawyers demanded as much as 12,000 euros there. Now let's see what it's like abroad. Tyrolska – €570, Upper Austria – this is where the province – €340, Brandenburg – €300, Frankfurt – € 160, in the Czech Republic – €320. Ladies and gentlemen, will anyone imagine? It is said that between € 160 and €570 in countries such as Austria, Germany, where incomes are more than twice as high as in Slovenia. But we still swear on independence, independence and expertise. Under these terms is abuse, abuse, and abuse. If I haven't convinced you with these numbers, then God help you, I can't. See why in Slovenia there would be a subscription to the 9 000 euro legal profession? The Bar Association, however, reduced this to 3,000 euros under pressure from the public. And we all agree that this is not acceptable. I have listened very carefully to the position of the United Left, which I never agree with, but can actually be signed under what their representative has said. I also listened very carefully to the views of all the rest of you. You all agree that this is unacceptable. However, tell me, in particular in the SMC, what is the difference between writing the amount into the law and what you are proposing that then the Government's statutes and consents control it. One day at a government, however, which, let's say that its last session, will go smoothly through because under point A those who were in the government see only Mr. Weber, because such things are treated under point A, we know that looks like a situation like that, the President of the Government says point A from point 1 to 70, looks around the hall and says thank you very much, accepted. Which is also normal because it has to be coordinated first. That goes for everyone. And in this way, one day, we'll let it happen again. There is no difference between whether this is determined by the law of Members, because it is 90 people, or if it is controlled by an official in the Government and warned the Government in due time or not to warn the Government at all. From the point of view of the constitutional autonomy of this service, I think there is no difference. Our proposal is, in fact, what? Let me do the numbers again. Out of €2,000, 500 went to €9,000 and returned to €3,000. NSI's number, if I understand correctly, is about a thousand 500 euros if we simplify things. However, we have tabled an amendment, after which the entry is approximately €790. The EUR 790 we propose is still three or four times higher than in Frankfurt or in the countries of Germany and Austria and so on. And there is no reason, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, for you to still bless with the law the situation of 3,000 euros, that is too much. We will support the law if our amendment or the solution of New Slovenia is adopted, otherwise we will not take responsibility for such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 June. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 1a are substantively linked, so we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate articles 1 and 1a and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mrs Iva Dimic, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. One more time. In New Slovenia we really want to keep the lawyer in the public interest, which means that we provide legal protection and legal advice to every individual in the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, we have followed this direction in the introduction of the law, so that lawyers must be open and accessible to everyone and everyone and that there is no monopoly within the power of the lawyer, which prevents a person from entering the labour market with too much registration, I am still talking about the entry of EUR 9 000, why then our proposal for a law cannot be limited to the entry into the labour market of young lawyers or older persons who have decided to devote their work to saving the weakest. Because I think that the one seeking legal aid is in some ways the weakest because he is seeking legal protection in the country. However, that the debate took place on the Committee and that the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia nevertheless entered a step back, it is likely that our proposal for a law also helped. The Ministry said that our law was pursuing the right goal, our law was pursued by the right goal, and that is an excellent withdrawal of the license. If I look at it from this point of view, the entry of 9 000 or, in our proposal, the average gross salary for the last month of the previous year is a big difference. Here, too, from the point of view of young candidates for lawyers, I see no point in representing their position when it was said on the committee that they would receive an entry fee of EUR 3,000, as the Chamber of Lawyers then adopted one day before the Committee's hearing, that EUR 3,000 is entirely acceptable to all young and future lawyers. It's a 3,000-euro ticket. On the other hand, our law offers a register of thousands of EUR 500. Of course, the opposition SDS party proposed an even lower entry at today's hearing. We can resubmit an amendment and we say there is no entry, because then we can play different variants here. But I think that, together on the committee, both the opposition and the coalition, we agreed that some security guards should be placed in this area and in this area ensure that these tickets do not go into some re-excellent lifts. It seems to me that this step has been taken further to bring the accessibility and representation of public interest for all citizens and citizens closer. Mandatory membership, however, remains a question, according to the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Still. We have not touched this, but we need to know that mandatory membership also creates some kind of monopoly in this area. In New Slovenia we advocate the principle that compulsory membership should not be in any chamber. And from this point of view, then, all our further discussion in this direction is that mandatory membership also needs to be considered in the legal types and in all other chambers that are still mandatory. For example, I can give the Chamber of Commerce – the abolition of compulsory membership over the past three years, it seems to me that, and after all the feelings, indicators and everything the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce say, it was a decision, even though it did not seem right at the time. In fact, the Chamber of Commerce now has a more unified, stronger membership and better work. And that is what we are also advocating in the compulsory membership of the Bar Association in order to help all those seeking such and other assistance through this form of optional membership. We still regret the abolition of the free first legal aid, which is linked to censorship. It does not seem fair to us that this price is currently around €577 per family member, which means that if someone exceeds this price for one euro, he can pay all the legal costs. However, someone who receives less than €1 is entitled to free legal aid. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, this is not an appropriate arrangement for free first aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm probably one of those who's gonna have the biggest reservations about the adoption of this law. I will not support the amendment or the law itself. I agree with many of the concerns you've made. I was one of the first to condemn this action by the congregation on these Internet networks, which I find totally unacceptable, which is what that collection of lawyers did when the registration was increased four times. I agree that this means some restriction, and this is not some qualitative restriction on the entry of young lawyers into the area, but actually some restriction arising from some property status. But we must not forget that this decision was retained by the Board of the Bar and was eventually amended by the Assembly, so that the entry is ultimately set to EUR 3 000. My concerns go in this direction, while holding these concerns, that this can limit some competition, of course not for all, is limited to those who are interested in this profession. I am surprised by some debates, as if this concerns everyone, in fact, only those university-graduate lawyers who meet the conditions for carrying out this profession are concerned. I'm worried about something else. Lawyery is a constitutional category, the constitution speaks of independence and independence. The Constitutional Court has already interpreted this autonomy as some form of autonomy in terms of organising this act, and my concerns go in this direction, in fact, to determine by this law either with one or the other proposal that certain matters which are important for the functioning of the Chamber itself be decided either by the National Assembly or by the Government. Otherwise, it is written in the amendment proposed by the Government that the Bar itself determines this amount of registration with the Statute, but we must not forget that the Law on Lawyery states that the Statutes give the consent of the Government, it is said that this Chamber of Counsel will depend on the consent of the Government. We have now heard from the opposition groups that then the government will not really raise this immediately, which means that we are already putting an element that means financing this chamber into some political debate. And I don't think it should be, because if it goes that way, despite the proposal of the Bar Association, the Government will be able to say, we won't, we won't, we won't, it's happening at the bar. This is going to be 15, 20 years. The Bar has more and more members, more and more responsibilities. He's in education, he's in disciplinary procedures and he's not getting practically any funding from the country, he's being financed by himself. If it is limited in this funding in a way that the Government will say, you will not raise, you will not raise, I believe that the quality of the work of the lawyer will also fall in the long term. If this happens, of course, there will be a policy issue, but what if we were to reorganise this or even disband the Bar? But here we are when some important element of the justice system is being decided by policy. Do you imagine the situation in which, for example, the Ministry decides on the issues of the Bar? That the Ministry is licensing for a lawyer's profession? Or to conduct disciplinary proceedings against lawyers, to find a single politician, has already found himself in a process and, I shall say, a government that, for example, is opposition to this policy, a judicial minister brings proceedings against his lawyer? That's what I'm afraid of. As a result, I have doubts about the regime, which repeatedly gives me more and more powers and influences either the Government or the National Assembly over this profession, which is supposed to be independent or stopped by itself. Of course, I also have concerns about the retroactivity of this arrangement, so I understand this debate and I repeat once again, what the Bar Association has done is unacceptable. But even in the light of the fact that this reaction was a reaction in the first place to the warnings of the most affected lawyers, I think it is very important in our decision that, in the end, these lawyers have also said that they do not want this intervention by the State. They said they didn't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to comment on this matter. I also presented the position of the Group of Members, which is that, of course, we support the Committee's position on the resolution of this matter, because even in our Group of Members, if I use that word, we were also embarrassed to use the word above this incredible increase in admission fees to the Chamber of Lawyers, which should be paid primarily by candidates for lawyers, that is to say, young lawyers who have previously worked in the Office of Lawyers for a fairly low salary, if I say so. In this case, the fact that this is a ceho approach cannot be avoided because it is actually the case. I think that in such cases where there is also a public interest, which is the provision of legal aid to citizens, is a public interest and, of course, a reasonable price must also be provided in this public interest, this is a point of law which is not currently the subject of this debate, but when we have recalculated these changes that the Bar Association has then adopted, we have seen that it has relied on a point which has not yet been set at such a height. In short, I believe that we must, of course, pursue this public interest in our society, and we must also pursue that we are a social state under the Constitution and that, therefore, we must also provide for the socially weaker candidates who have come through the study so far as to become lawyers to give them the opportunity to – Mr Škoberne said earlier in his presentation of the delegation's position – that these candidates who come from socially weak families because they do not have parents or grandparents who could pay such high-priced fees, of course we must allow them to do so in order to become lawyers. That is why, of course, we remain in the Group of Members in the position I have put in the position of the Group of Members before this. But if you'll excuse me, I'd just like to comment a little bit more on what Mr. Gorenak has presented. I was surprised by that information. Of course, we did not discuss this either on the Committee or in our Group of Members. We didn't get that information. Of course, this information should probably be supplemented. This is about countries such as Tyrol, Upper Austria, Brandenburg, Frankfurt. What's going on at the state level? In short, there are data to be verified. There are data to be considered. We are indeed a country where personal income is much lower than Austria and Germany. This should also be taken into account. That I won't be too long. In the Desus Group, we continue to support amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, the proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I have to react to certain data issues. Mrs Popot, a research task has been commissioned in the National Assembly, which accurately defines the countries, the countries around us, how the registrations, the costs of lawyers are arranged, and very much in detail. On the one hand, the countries of Austria, Germany, France Spain and the Czech Republic are also exposed in our works. The fact is, all these countries around us, if I may say so, or comparable to us, have some thousands of Euros of tickets. They also have some, we only have a single bar, certain countries have two, France has two, Germany has one. Things are comparable. And our proposal has gone towards European comparable criteria for young people entering the labour market. We all talk about what will happen, what does it mean, but no one here is talking about a free economic initiative for young people, or those who enter the legal profession. If I mention just this matter, which Mr Zorčič mentioned earlier, what will happen if there is no more single bar, who will come to the bar. It was already on the committee that it was pointed out who was already going into law enforcement today. Of course, young people would be prevented by high registration, and today prosecutors, judges, are coming into the lawyers' ranks, and then we see that after a while their cases fall out of the closet and then we have these kinds of lawyers. In short, we want to preserve and encourage young people to seek work in the legal order as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to express my gratitude, instead of the introduction to this debate, for the subjugation of New Slovenia, which is called Young Slovenia, especially the young lawyers that Young Slovenia has, and I would particularly like to point out to Mr Matej Hrast and the multitude of his young colleagues, who, frankly, have encouraged and also helped us to write this law. So, my sincere gratitude on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is one stone in a mosaic under which I hope we can write "Better Slovenia" or "Good Slovenia" once in the future. For we must stop maintaining the social conditions that are lame, paralyzing the potential of the more successful and the potential of the more capable. I think that this could be one of the key leaders of our work in the legislative process. Yes, when we speak in general about autonomy and then add a monopoly, as the Secretary of State also spoke of, then here at these two concepts, or with organisations such and different, which are autonomous, monopolies, we legislators must certainly be very careful. We say the university is autonomous. Okay, so in a practical sense, we give a relatively large basket of money to the university in the budget, and in fact, as legislators, we shouldn't look at how the university is spending this money now. It bothers me here to point out some irregularity that we've been dealing with recently, but I don't want to get anyone into a bad mood today, let's just say there's no time for bad will. I think we must first understand, of course, in a legal sense, what autonomy means and of course what monopolies mean. And the bar has both these characteristics. Are we now interfering with autonomy if we determine the upper limit of the registration? According to my understanding of the opinion of the Legislative Service and the decision of the Constitutional Court, no, we are not. Therefore, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party deserves an extremely close debate. He deserves attention. In its position, the colleague Liljana Kozlović referred to the Constitutional Court’s decision of 5 May 2009, which, in the 26th paragraph of the Explanatory Note, emphasises that the independence of the legal service is substantively related to the regulation of matters relating to the situation of lawyers and their housing organisations. It added that the Constitutional Court has no doubt to settle these issues, but not exhaustively. That it must address these issues, but not exhaustively, but that certain issues must be left to autonomous regulation within the legal profession. We note that the Legislative and Legal Service, in accordance with this requirement of the Law, only sets the upper limit for the registration of lawyers. This is our original law. It only sets the ceiling. And here I understand the Legal and Legal Service that autonomy is not wrong for me to stress, with the original law, that we are not interfering with the autonomy of the Bar. That's the legal service. “Warning,” continues the Legal Service, “that the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of Payment of a Certain Amount at the time of entering into the Register of Lawyers does not regulate, the registration is only provided for by the Statute of the Chamber of Lawyers, which is adopted by the Chamber of Lawyers with the consent of the Government.” And what is now very important, the next sentence, the most important one I want to say, in the opinion of the Legislative Service. “Therefore, at the time of consideration of the bill”, that is, today, “it is also our view that consideration should also be given to whether, at the legal level, it should also be possible to provide for the registration in the legal register of lawyers.” And now my understanding, I'm not a lawyer, so please help me, it wouldn't be wrong if we supported the SDS amendment, because it sets the ceiling, it doesn't set the amount, it says, it shouldn't exceed the amount of the minimum gross salary last month and so on. So there is a ceiling, and in the statutes the Bar can say, yes, we will go to the ceiling, or we will go to the international comparison, which we have heard about by colleague Iva Dimic, and I am grateful to the State-Court Research Sector that he has made an excellent quality international comparison and can be the status of the Chamber, the Bar Association says, yes, we will now not go to the ceiling, to the maximum, as proposed by the SDS, but we will go, say, to factor 0.9 gross minimum wages or 0.5, which I would prefer. I would also ask the Secretary of State to define the amendment only from this point of view whether the amendment interferes with the autonomy of the Chamber. I'm sure it's fine. To this debate, which we are encouraged by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion of 19 May 2016. And I would really ask now that we are all so well together in the finish line, that we will make a quality marriage solution once and for all. When are we going to have this crust? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, interestingly, in fact, today is indeed as fellow Member Horvat said, in this national assembly, we are going somehow all towards the same goal, only that we are somehow defending different ways. One of these is to get to this goal faster, and this is to support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, given that the amendment of New Slovenia or their proposal on the Committee has not received adequate support, but we now have a second option or that we are really slow and that we are not even entirely sure whether we will achieve the goal if we follow the path currently proposed. I'll tell you why. When we spoke about the so-called registration on the list of lawyers, there was also quite a heated debate on the committee by the representatives of the Bar Association. They were talking about an unwarranted intervention in their operation. But I ask them differently: Does not their operation constitute an interference in the principle of proportionality, in the principle of freedom to the labour market and, finally, we speak of it as a constitutional category? For unjustifiablely, I would say yes, as the expression has already been used today, exclusion means restraint. This is not independence, independence, and expertise. And if we really want to solve this problem, we should certainly start somewhere else, that's voluntary membership. Why? Voluntary membership means that the structure itself would be organised, because they believe that this will be a major intervention in their organisational structure, but the organisational structure will adapt not least to competition. And at the time, I believe that we would be talking about exactly the data mentioned by my colleague Horvat, 0.5 upper bounds or even something lower, perhaps even what colleague Iva Dimic said would not exist at all, because the system would be organised in accordance with competition and of course needs. To avoid misunderstandings, these are not the only funds that the Bar Association has; they also have membership fees, and this is certainly not the only source of income. If this was the case, we might have to talk about it a little differently, but it's not. Here it is just one of the sources, look at the way it was adopted when we speak to this autonomy and independence and expertise. There was a congregation, at this congregation of all the lawyers who are in the Bar, of course, they must be automatic, there are about a thousand 679, about, maybe number one up, down. One third of all these members should be present under the quorum. Of course, this third was not achieved. Then the statute has another security guard, that's to wait half an hour and as long as they come, then they're done. You know what that means? In order to be able to make virtually two decisions about what the entry will be, and then, from a proposal that I will not say that it was not realistic in any way by the chamber, if they did not coordinate cost increases over the years, came an excellent proposal, I don't know, 12 thousand euros, and 9 thousand euros and so on, it was raised, we go on, confirmed, without analysis, without anything, why such a need, without any statistics. It's not independence. And here I think we as the legislator have a duty to settle these matters. And it seems most transparent that this matter, as we have set out many other things, is why so many comparisons with other arrangements, because we are still looking for some comparisons in order to comply with the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to set a ceiling, the upper limit does not limit them in this sense, so that they can still determine this in their own way and then operate within these frameworks. Finally, such a provision is much more responsible to the candidates themselves. Why? If this is determined by a minimum wage limit, however, each one knows in advance of a year what that amount will be. But if we leave this to some statute, then someone can expect one amount, and they'll get a whole different amount overnight. It can also happen again with excellence. And I think that a matter that is much more transparent means certainly a great contribution to some expertise, and not least then independence, but something in the fog and it doesn't know exactly what's going to happen. They have said that they organise many things, from education, from various worlds, from aid. I support it. I support it. Of course, you can say that some education has such a budget, otherwise such a budget, you can have such a budget even higher, we can have the highest, we can afford education on a financial scale richer than, for example, in Germany. There are no obstacles to this, not at this point, because if you run out of money, you come to the assembly, you come at least two, you raise your hand, and you say, money is too little, things are too expensive, experts who want to tell us something, they want more, and you pick up the tickets a little bit. Interesting, not a membership card, a receipt. Yeah. In short, I still think that the basic problem would be solved if we allowed voluntary membership, for sure. However, believe me, it would be very good education for much less resources to be invested either in the form of a subscription or in the form of a membership fee. Because then you start thinking about other things, or you look at maybe what competition does. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I am giving the entire coalition a thought, really once again, see if it really means the way that it is not a definite ceiling, more transparent to all stakeholders, than the way that is determined by some amount in the country that is of course moving, but everyone knows exactly what it means and you still allow and allow any independence, expertise and autonomy to that organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Two answers first. Mrs Porotat, there is nothing above these amounts in other countries. Germany, Austria, what I was talking about, these things are regulated at the country level and there is nothing at the state level of Austria, and there is nothing at the state level of Germany, but these are the figures I mentioned, so this is a relatively clear matter. But I do have a lawyer, an MP and a future lawyer, yes, Mr Zorčič, that is you, one extremely simple question. But before I ask you this question, for people, those who don't understand the legal language you had in your performance would translate or simplify your thinking. Your opinion was that you would not even support what New Slovenia is proposing, so that you would not even support what we propose not to support what the Government is proposing with the amendment. That means he should stay the way he is. And now, if we're talking about keeping it the way it is, then the Bar sets the entrance fee, so to speak, among the lawyers. And that's acceptable to you. However, depending on how the proceedings are going on there, 10% of the people may come to the Bar Assembly or 5% will come or Zdolšek, Senica and others will come, and in the final stage can happen and it is purely in accordance with the Statute that only two come. Say, Sénica, Zdolšek. Sort of. And they, pok, determine, 25 grand. And we have 25 grand. All those who are going to law school today and will be playing the role of joining the lawyers tomorrow will have 25 grand's entrance fee. Why? Because these two rich gentlemen would like to be even richer. And now that you have been a lawyer, you are an MP, and you will be a lawyer, it is also your interest that there are as few lawyers in Slovenia as possible, and that is why you defend the solution as it is, because you will be richer. That's why I have a simple question for you. Let the viewers know why in Slovenia there would be 3,000 euros in admissions from lawyers and why it is, say, 160 euros in Frankfurt. I repeat, explain to the audience, explain to your voters: Why is it EUR 3 000 in Slovenia, and why 160 euros in Frankfurt? I think I've asked such a simple question that you can explain the matter to the viewers. Now, the President would go a little bit wider, because the darkness is such that we have to go a little wider with these questions. Look, I've been trying to set up one thesis that I've been repeating for a long time in this National Assembly, at least in this composition, that independence, expertise, autonomy, and wherever we talk about it, in fact, represent something negative, and that it represents abuse. Now we're talking about lawyers, prosecutors and judges, and I don't know who else, entrepreneurs, I don't know, the Economic Chamber and other institutions, the Government, the Constitutional Court and so on. Here we use the term independence, expertise, autonomy everywhere. Now, Mr Vice-President, I would like to draw one line between the relationship of these institutions, including the defence, and between the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall consist of 90 Members. We all had to go to the polls. Each of us, under such or different circumstances, under the law in force in this area, had to be tested among the people, given some confidence that we could sit here today. Every single one of us. But the National Assembly is also independent and autonomous. Is that right? So if the judiciary is independent, autonomous, if they are lawyers, prosecutors, constitutional judges and everything else, the media, for example, this is an interesting case here, independent, professional and autonomous, then let us also give ourselves Members this right to be independent and autonomous. But now I'm asking you, are we really independent and autonomous? Are we? I can afford a little more in this term. For a basic reason, because in my next term, it will not be my choice, because I will not go to the election. But at least I would like to say something to those younger Members, regardless of political colours,: an independent and autonomous parliament – is it true? You stay here, I don't, the one you're running for office. There's a reporter out there, and he says, "Messengers to minimums, who's up for it." Members fly there and compete to support such a press proposal. Is that right? Is that right? Look, we have problems with an independent and autonomous and professional government today, because the Prime Minister, whatever I say politically right now, has a problem getting ministers. Yeah, who's going to be the minister? Why would he be a minister? Why would he be Secretary of State? For the salary you get there? For the work you have to do and for all that you have to endure? I'm going back to an independent and autonomous parliament. Would you not stand on your feet independently and autonomously tomorrow and do some things in this society to an end? And I'll give you some examples. Look, in our constitutional order, it's clear that we're adopting laws. The Constitutional Court only assesses them in terms of whether they comply with the Constitution. And in these two institutions, Parliament and the Constitutional Court, it is quite clear who has something to do, a position. However, in the past, the Constitutional Court passed the law. Yes, the Constitutional Court has determined that there is a congregation of Ankaran. To every lawyer, to a student of the Faculty of Law, it must be clear that the National Assembly could react in its own way and say, no, sorry, this is our jurisdiction. And we're like chickens, and we've been quiet. Let's move on. Look, the independent university of autonomy that Mr. Horvat was talking about. Yeah, but she's independent, autonomous and professionally demanding money, and what she's doing with it, and we don't care. Don't you think we should cut it? Don't you think we should cut it? The same applies to courts – independent, autonomous, professional. They close the MP, send him to Kangler prison, refer to independence, expertise, autonomy, and the Constitutional Court annuls it. [[clapping]] And we applaud some independence, autonomy, expertise, instead of getting on our feet and adopting laws to regulate, which we have a legal and constitutional right to regulate the field of justice. Look, we are just about to be among the Members – sooner or later, this is already happening, and I think it will happen even more – to get people who do not have a job, not people who would be politically, autonomously, professionally, independently, if you want, sitting here and deciding as you need to be. Think of the Member's salary that was set in 1991, which is what you should count the situation and see what we have done with the material conditions of Members to date. Independently, autonomously and professionally, we cut our own legs to make people like us. And those who stand out there cry out, and those who are sent to the miniaturists, let us give it, fine. But I don't think that's right. Slovenia will be given a parliament, one day, which will consist of unemployed people and homeless people, because no one else will want to run for office. Today, too, it is unattractive to run for this job. Many among us, many among us, especially all those who belong in the university sphere, but I think that here I see only Mr. Hanžk, who knows about this, could make what money — how much? Five, six thousand? I could do that. A month, yes. Then why are we sitting here? We're sitting here with some enthusiasm, ladies and gentlemen. For some other reason, we're sitting here, not for money, let's just say it is. But, independently, autonomously and professionally, ladies and gentlemen, you need to get on your feet, see what others are doing. The solicitor's office made a first-class mess, independent, autonomous and professional, and put the case on 9 grand, at 9 grand. And instead of being independently, autonomously and professionally slapping them after a pumpkin and giving them 700 euros in law, we don't do that. We don't do this. We have a judiciary that is independent of blah blah blah, here you will disagree, I say that there is a political option, but you probably won't agree here, but if you look at European comparable data as we have looked at them in the field of lawyers, you could see that we have a judiciary that costs too much and does too little, and I can agree with that because the numbers prove it. And we don't want to react by law. We don't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to say this: it would be good if we followed the law that was essentially proposed by New Slovenia, but we have made an amendment, and these gentlemen who abused the situation would abuse the situation, impose on me by law that the biggest, I don't know, is €700 or €800 or 1,500, as New Slovenia has said, because it is still 6 times more than Frankfurt and leave the situation as it is. If the Constitutional Court says we're through, we're through, and then we'll fix it. But Members are not capable, especially the coalition majority is not able to return the blow, the legal blow, to someone who has gone across borders, this is the Bar. We're still leaving the possibility of the same or worse machinations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members, I'm going to say, stand on your feet, hit the table, and don't listen to the informal centers of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u82	Yes, I would respond to some of the words and understanding of my words of colleague Vinko Gorenak. Dude, you asked me, you gave the Frankfurt case, I have to say that I don't know this case, why they have a lower registration than we do, if we have one, I don't have that information, but I can have a higher membership fee. My colleague Dimic said earlier that the chambers should be funded with membership fees. Look, it's also a blow to a new lawyer, a high-end membership when he doesn't have any clients, and when he's still looking around. To say that the higher membership is better than the registration, that's more out of hand. It was also said what my interest was, whether it is higher or lower, my interest here doesn't matter at all, my function is at rest and I've already paid my membership or registration, so I don't care. All that can happen is that after the end of this term, I open an office and hire new lawyers, but, of course, it is in my interest that it is as low as possible, not as high as possible. And here is the possible misunderstanding of some of the debaters on this issue and on that decision. I do not see that conclusion adopted by the Assembly, in the sense that they wanted to restrict the legal candidates, but mainly lawyers who have employed lawyers and who might be expanding into societies, to make it more difficult to develop their activities and that it will be easier for only those who are the greatest to do so. Above all, it was that, it is said, the business of lawyers was limited more than of lawyers' candidates, since we have finally heard that lawyers' applications for this licence are paid for most of the time by lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I can agree with much in today's debate. This study is an international comparison in itself eloquent enough. I think that for all those who have thought about what was actually happening, there is no need for a specific comment, essentially a comparison with the Slovenian framework – we should be speechless. However, I am kind of in favour of these proposals to support the Government's proposal, mainly because of and based on the principle of independence and independence of the judiciary. However, I agree with my previous debaters that this issue, or what we have witnessed, raises not a few questions that the mirror raises with them international comparability, issues of funding sources, including the purpose of such behaviour. And here I am asked the question of this purpose, which is probably not just funding, but could also be interpreted in a different way. Restraining, on the one hand, can also those small or large ones, as my colleague has just pointed out, perhaps even closing the door to the multitude of young educated lawyers, may also be the purpose of this, but these are only my guesses. Perhaps it was just not intended to generate funding sources, which could probably be within us even if we were talking about the budget, as former colleague Anja Bah Žibert spoke about the budget, which is made up of different sources, and which could also be talked about in ways and sources that we acquire, so that a lot of questions are open to her here. However, I believe that this compromise proposal is, in the light of the principle of independence and independence as a constitutional principle, acceptable to me. However, in doing so, I would like to say my clear explicit position, mainly in the direction that was stated at the outset, which is that it is unacceptable for me to limit and set the criteria for money as an entry criterion for someone to pursue a profession. And here I strongly represent the view that it must comply with the criterion of knowledge and ability, not money. And here I very much agree with my colleague, Mr Horvato. I will therefore support this proposal, because I believe that there is a need to support knowledge and skills and to enable those who have it, to choose freely for their profession and to enable them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Novak. Yeah, go ahead, 'cause I don't think there's gonna be that many applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. According to sources from Siol.net, we have looked at the profits or incomes of some law firms that I will not appoint, but look, the net profit of some law firm is €3.7 million per year, profits, other offices €1.4 million, once again the net profit of some other office €338 thousand, then the income of some law firm, €2.45 million and so on. So we can assume that these lawyers who are employed in these offices certainly do not have a small salary. That is why I believe that when they have given the original price of 9,000 euros, that this is not much for them, as we say, what kind of salary we have for a pensioner who has 300, 400 euros in pension, he will say, and you have a terrible big salary. But if we know that he has a gross salary, I don't know, the president of the country is about 5,000 euros, and on the other hand, managers, entrepreneurs of 10,000, 20,000, and 30,000 euros, we see again what the difference is. However, if membership in the Bar Association is mandatory, then we cannot and cannot restrict people at the beginning of their careers with such a high subscription, if they agree at the Assembly that membership will be higher, this is their problem, because they are already established, because it is not a condition, but it is a condition for registration, but usually those at the beginning of their careers are registered, but this entry must be accessible. That is why I will also say, in gratitude and gratitude to the young man of New Slovenia, who responded so quickly and helped to prepare a legislative proposal, and I have to correct my fellow Member Jožet, they have also done research because thank God they have mastered different languages and are at home on the Internet and can quickly obtain such information. I am pleased, however, that Parliament has reacted maturely, irrespective of the party's affiliation, that we have seen the problem that you have also voted on the committee, given support to the law for further consideration and I hope that the law will also be adopted and that we will not be restricting young people at the outset so that they can start their legal activities. Of course, how much someone deserves, then it depends on how good it is, how successful it is, but if these successful, recognised high-paying lawyers wanted to limit competition in this way, it is unacceptable. In the beginning, young people should have the opportunity to establish their skills in the professional field, we already know – and then prices will be lower and more accessible to Slovenian people – that we have many problems in the judiciary, that we need qualified, good lawyers, more competition, lower prices, and that we also need jobs for young educated people. So I hope that this law will be adopted with appropriate content.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary of the Ministry, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to answer Mr Horvath because he had asked me earlier to define myself before the SDS amendment. So I would like to say, we believe that the key question to be answered here is whether we are still within the framework of independence and independence if the law provides for a registration. For we believe that even if the law only sets the ceiling as proposed, it is a unilateral regulation and that, constitutionally speaking here, I will just say, we are no longer on the safe side. The question is whether we are still on the safe side. I will once again say that the goal pursued is supported by the Government without any dilemma. But it does seem to us that with this solution, the registration is set out in the statute, to which, as we have said, then the consent of the Government, so with the introduction of this cooperative model, we will be satisfied with all the criteria that this special placement of lawyers from us, whether it is true or not, now there is no point in discussing, it is. We think we're using this collaborative model, and I'm going to use that term from before, constitutionally purely on the safe side. However, when we arbitrarily determine, even though only the upper height, this doubts us. I would also like to explain to you whether the speeches on the judiciary, the ones on which our ministry somehow has an influence, are both executives and bankruptcy administrators the amount of membership, registration, contributions, all of which are provided for by the statute. So did the notaries. The amount of the entry fee, membership fee, contributions, all these financial issues are governed by the statutes, so it is not raised to the legal level. And by giving us lawyers, although they are constitutional, I'll say again, besides the statute we're adding another extra security guard, we're going essentially longer than the others I've just mentioned, even though they're not a constitutional category. In short, I mean, our goal is to be constitutional, I'm going to repeat myself, but this is the most graphic expression I have, within the permissive framework and on the safe side, and that we are systematically somehow coherent. So, if this is the case with executives, notaries, administrators, let us keep it so, that is, statutoryly regulated or in the statutes, and not on the legal level, also with lawyers. Because if we are going to the legal level of lawyers, at all the risks that I have listed earlier, it is likely that we must go to the legal level for all the other chambers, which is not our purpose, or that is not our solution. As we say, I hope that I have answered, we have tried to find a way to make this goal, or to make systemically this experience that has happened, to arrange and arrange it, we have become very absorbed in it. Professionals have studied things from every angle. And somehow we're assessing that we can arrange it most comprehensively and safely, as we suggested with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Very briefly. The Secretary of State, as we can agree – on the safe side. It means that this is a ziher option, that the Constitutional Court will not intervene. I can agree with that. See, in this mandate, we have already had two cases where the National Assembly weighed between the safe side and the Constitutional Court to annul the case. One was John Janša's mandate, and one was a code that went to the Constitutional Court after you banned it. Both times the Legal and Legal Service said, "Look out, no! But the National Assembly went to the dangerous side. On the dangerous side. And this time we could go to the dangerous side. Well, then, the Constitutional Court will cancel it, which is why we have it. Since we are not, Slovenia is simply not mature and these social sub-systems, such as lawyering, notarisation and so on, as you said when you compared, which is exactly what they are, they are simply not mature. And like a child, you take your hand across the street, because he's not yet mature enough to judge when he's going across the street, so you have to limit them here with the law, even if everything. That's all I'm going to say, as a matter of thought, to the Members in particular. But before I forget, I'll mention it now. When I was talking about the weight of the National Assembly, it was necessary to get on your feet. Ladies and gentlemen, go to Germany. Go to Austria. When your term is over, you get to the table – What? Five, ten, fifty job offers. Yeah. I see you're nodding a lot. How are things with us? But with us, being an MP, you're a bastard anyway. Because you were a messenger, you're a bastard. But it's not the people who judge it like that, it's our fault that we don't get on our feet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u92	I'm not a minister yet. I'm kidding. Good afternoon, good morning! I think that this debate on this law at the principal level is very important, namely how and in what way this State Assembly will allow the entry into legal types to be restricted. It seems to me that the lawyers with the first move, which they have already petted a little bit, simply wanted to design an exclusive despite which they would restrict entry to a lot of people. We certainly don't think that's right. It does not seem to us in terms of a free economic initiative, nor does it seem to us in terms of access to legal services and what else could I say. And if all of these things were to continue in this direction, it is no wonder that, for example, certain lawyers defending the worst criminals who belong to them in Slovenia get paid better in one day than judges throughout the month. All of this then leads us to have results with which no one is satisfied, and results that piss us off people who make us all unhappy because we have a feeling that double standards apply, one for a little bit more equal, and the other for a little less. So I can go back to our law or the new Law on Lawyery that we've prepared. I think that at least feeling in this House is at least such principled support for the law in the sense that this is a step in the right direction, that the intention was right, but of course it is now a problematic implementation. I find it hard to understand myself, trying to explain how it is possible, for example, that if we put a restriction in the law, it could be an excessive intervention into the work of the bar. However, if we write the matter in such a way that the Government has to give its consent to the price they set, it is not an intervention in their work or a minor intervention. In any case, the government or the government coalition will have some influence on these matters, as it will approve their statutes after this government proposal. If they do not agree with the price that will be written in this Statute, then they will still be able to stop this matter. So I'm not going to complicate it, and I'm not going to lock it up, and it's essential for us that this solution is going to result in these entry costs being reduced in the bar. If the government thinks this is the right path, then so be it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for Mrs State Secretary's replies. Again, I wonder whether it makes sense to make a comparison between the Bar, which we are dealing with today, and to compare with notaries. The number of notaries for the Republic of Slovenia shall be determined by the Government. So the position of notaries and lawyers is very different if we put them on the market in some way. I am opening only this question, which is certainly debated, today we are not talking about notaries, but we may not just draw guidance. But I just want to say one more thing, which is the credit of the National Assembly. The Assembly of the Bar Association decided, just the day before the anticipated treatment of our law on the home work body, that the registration would not be 9 000, but only, in quotations, 3 000, which, according to our assessment, is still absolutely too much. Just a coincidence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mrs. Iva Dimic, please. She's the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u96	Your Honor! Regardless of today's debate between you, fellow Members and Members, the objective seems to be achieved. The change in the level of the registration by the Chamber of Counsel, one day before the examination of the law in the National Assembly, suggests that the objective of the New Slovenia Group was achieved. The 9 000-euro excess was changed to 3,000 euro on the parent board prior to the hearing. Of course, once again, in New Slovenia we have proposed that the amount should be one average monthly gross salary last year – why? Because anyone could easily know what the other entry card is, which he has to pay for entering the legal registry or the list. I am pleased that all Members of Parliament today have expressed more or less their main support for this law. Of course, in the New Slovenia Group, we also pointed out that unfortunately there is no government position on what the height should be, and that the Government gives its consent to the statute of the Slovenian Bar Association itself. However, I am convinced that such excesses will not be allowed by any Government that would have an impact on the reduction of youth employment in legal waters, that the defence is still in the public interest, where people get legal certainty and legal protection. Thus, the whole Parliament and the coalition and the opposition must work – for the benefit of citizens and citizens and their legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item — Second draft law on the implementation of international programmes in the fields of cultivation and education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Andrea Barle Lakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you. Nicely greeted! The Law implementing international education and education programmes provides a legal basis for the implementation of foreign programmes and for the implementation of the European School and the so-called IBO Programme. With this law we want to regulate the status and their way of functioning. These are programmes and schools carried out in a foreign language. By this law, we have defined what international programmes are, defined the status of educational instruments issued under the International Schools programme, defined the way in which the European School programme and the so-called IBO programme are co-financed and established a register of private kindergartens and schools implementing such a programme. In addition, the law also provides for supervision regarding the fulfilment of the conditions for the implementation of the programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 17th regular session on 1 June 2016, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the draft law on the implementation of international education and education programmes submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The proposed law was examined by the Legislative and Legal Service and its representative explained that the main comments concern co-financing of IB programmes and European schools from the State budget.The IB programme, which is not in force, can be implemented by a public and private school and the completion of education is equivalent to a public instrument on the completion of education issued in public education programmes. As only co-financing of those IB programmes implemented by public schools is envisaged, the question arises as to the existence of really justified reasons for distinguishing public and private schools as regards eligibility for co-financing from the State budget. She made a similar comment in co-financing the European School programme. Slovenia has committed itself to establishing European schools within the public network through an international treaty, but this law allows Slovenia to propose the accreditation of a private school for the implementation of the European School programme, and this also raises the issue of the existence of really justified reasons for distinguishing public and private schools as regards eligibility for co-financing from the State budget. The opinion was also presented by a representative of the Council of State, who warned, among other things, that it is unacceptable for foreign citizens to have much less hours of Slovenian than for Slovenian citizens. He stressed that this is a language of the environment which is intended to be managed only on the basis of a level that does not allow it to be used on its own. Nor is the required minimum number of hours of Slovenian language required for Slovenian citizens, as the problem of Slovenian knowledge is wider and especially up to date at higher education level. For this reason, the Commission of the State Council has drawn up a concrete comment on Article 8 of the bill and has proposed to the Committee that it should summarize it as its amendment. The amendments to Article 8 were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD. The amendment of the Committee was tabled to Article 1. At the end of the discussion, both were adopted. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport said that the proposal for a law provided a legal basis for the implementation of international education and education programmes. It defines three types of international programmes: kindergarten and school programmes, the European School programme and the IB programme, which are not part of the Slovenian educational system. The law lays down the conditions for the implementation of these programmes and defines the status of educational documents. The arrangements for the implementation of programmes of international kindergartens and international schools in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia have no financial implications. The discussion was held on the minimum number of hours of Slovenian per school year, with concerns at the level of actual practice, the supervision of the implementation of the programme and the equivalent validity of documents issued under the IB programme or under the European School programme, with those issued in public education programmes. The representative of SWIZ explained that they support the separation of international schools from Slovenian public schools, thus reducing the possibility of financial interdependence and stressing that the bill does not provide for the possibility of Slovenian citizens participating in them through public funds. There was also some debate on Article 8 of the bill, which sets out the obligation that a foreign programme implemented as a primary education programme should contain a minimum number of hours of Slovenian per school year. With the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, the number of hours of Slovenian, which must include a foreign programme implemented as a primary education programme, was increased from 105 to 140 hours per school year. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are also included in the amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you again for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal of the Law on the Implementation of International Programmes of Education and Education governs the way education is conducted in Slovenia, which has been implemented for many years, but has not had all the procedures legally regulated. The law regulates in more detail something that has existed with us for many years. And the fact is that the children of Slovenian parents also attended international schools, which carried out this as if they had been homeschooled and actually attended an international school. Of course, the consequences of such a gap between formal and actual burdened children who had to carry out a knowledge test at the end of the school year at a public school where they were also officially enrolled as schoolchildren at home. From now on, such a rim will not be necessary, but the obtained charter that the student will obtain will be considered as a foreign instrument that is valued and recognised in accordance with the sectoral law. The debate on the working body also drew attention to some of the effects of the law and, above all, many words ran with regard to the scope of the hours of the Slovenian language. Here the committee followed the recommendation of the State Council and also the general public and determined a greater proportion of hours in the Slovenian language than originally envisaged. In fact, international schools differ from other private schools and, of course, public schools in many respects, such as system placement, learning language, the implementation of a non-public programme, which is different from other private schools and, of course, public schools, which is why a special law on the implementation of international programmes in education and education is needed, making it clear that there is a gap between public primary education and private education already under way in Slovenia and international education and education programmes. As a result, we believe that this clear splinter should not lead to additional funding requirements from public funds, including international programmes, being met in this case. Because this is a special Law on the Implementation of International Programmes in Education and Education, and this is actually made up of this section, and also to improve the conditions and procedures that students have had to carry out in school so far, of course, we will support this law and we believe that it is addressing one of the issues that has not been properly addressed in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. The aim of the Law on the Implementation of International Education and Training Programmes is to provide a legal basis for the implementation of foreign education programmes and to regulate the status of existing international schools, while allowing Slovenian citizens to be educated according to the international programmes set out in the law. The law is therefore trying to regulate legally ways of education that do not take place within or within a public education network, which is currently not clearly regulated. The stated objective of the law, which is to regulate the regulation, is to conceal the trends with which we have a fundamental problem in the United Left – the elitistisation of the education system. It is clear that these educational programmes benefit mainly children of richer parents, whether children of foreign bureaucrats at work in Slovenia or local elites. Children from poor families do not have any real access to these programmes, although, for example, IB programmes are fully financed by public funds. This, in our view, undermines the principle of equal access to quality education and the public education system. Every euro in private and elite schools is less than the euro in public education. The Ministry of Education is also aware that the functioning of these schools is problematic. One of the aims of the law is also to prevent more frequent fictitious enrolments in home schooling where children are actually studying at a private international school. In the United Left we are a strong advocate of free, quality and universally accessible public education. Therefore, the law on the implementation of international programmes in the field of education and education cannot receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u106	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! We believe that the scope of international education and education programmes needs to be regulated in an internationally comparable manner. We support the regulation of the end of education instruments, because we know stories when students or students who have completed one of the foreign programmes in Slovenia and also in the Member States of the European Union have had major difficulties in entering further education. This needs to be done in an internationally comparable way. The proposed law, according to our assessment, can be a suitable basis for this and is basically three types of international programmes. Christian Democrats agree with those who believe that the minimum number of hours of teaching in Slovenia was initially proposed was too low. At the meeting of the parent committee, we supported the amendment to increase the hours of the Slovenian language to at least 140 hours a year. In our view, at least four hours a week should be prescribed for quality learning and good knowledge of Slovenian. If other subjects are taught in foreign languages, the Word Treasure in Slovenian does not spread together with new knowledge and expressions from certain areas. This can also increase the pressure for more lectures in foreign languages in colleges, which in this time of the new law, which we will soon be considering, is also a very current topic. We call on Christian Democrats to set maximum and not minimum standards for Slovenian language. The Slovenian language must be privileged because we must protect it if we are to not only preserve it but also develop it in the light of modern, versatile development, which also requires new professional and new everyday expressions, otherwise foreign expressions are rapidly being enforced. We are pleased that, on our initiative, an amendment has been adopted on the Committee, which also allows European schools to teach certain subjects in Slovenian or in the language of the environment, as is possible in other countries. Why should we limit ourselves in advance and write that learning is done only in a foreign language? Christian Democrats have concerns about the arrangements for financing these international programmes. How is it possible, for example, that the international programme at Danila Kumer State Primary School is financed by 100% of public funds, parents are paid only above standard, while the publicly valid compulsory parts at Slovenian private primary school are co-financed by only 85%, despite a different decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Coalition parties are shamelessly delaying the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is unacceptable, and we therefore demand clear answers as to the respect of the rule of law by the government coalition. For this last reason, in particular, the Christian Democrats cannot support the bill and we will be absolved of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We believe that a clear legal regime for the implementation of international programmes in the field of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia is important, so we will support the proposal. In this case, the text of the law regulates or defines three types of international programmes which are not part of the Slovenian educational system, namely the kindergarten and school programmes, the so-called European Schools programme and the IBO programme. In addition to the basic organisational content provisions, the issue of learning the Slovenian language is also important in the context of the regulation of this area, which is why the majority of the discussions on the home working committee focused on this issue. We believe that the adoption of the amendment to the MDT has improved the bill from this point of view, which we welcome. From the point of view of the indigenous national community, we are also pleased to note that, at the stage of the creation of the proposal, the text of the law on the basis of a discussion with our parliamentary group, the competent ministry has completed Article 8 of the proposal in accordance with our initiative. Thus, the proposal now states that if a foreign programme is implemented in national mixed areas, it must, of course, include at least 140 hours of Italian or Hungarian per year in addition to Slovenian. Otherwise, such cases will be such as to ensure that foreign programmes are implemented in those areas to a greater extent, it is also important that this aspect is regulated in the law. We'll support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u110	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal of the Law on the Implementation of International Programmes of Education and Education is the product of multi-annual work and coordination. This is also the result of this bill regulating the status of educational international programmes in the Republic of Slovenia. Initially, some of these programmes have been implemented since the mid-1990s. Their legal status has not yet been regulated. The bill also regulates, on the one hand, the status of already functioning international kindergartens and schools which are not legally regulated in school legislation and provides the legal basis for the implementation of the European School Accreditation Programme. Slovenia is one of the few European countries that do not yet provide an adequate legal basis for the implementation of international education and education programmes, which the interested international public has also warned us about in recent years or rightly expects us to regulate this area. It is important that the law clearly provides that the programmes of international kindergartens and schools are not fundamentally subject to national rules on education and education, which also relates to eligibility for public funding, so that foreign education programmes must be accredited in the country of origin. It is also crucial that international programmes should not run counter to the objective of education and education in the Republic of Slovenia, as set out in Article 2 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Let us mention just a few of these objectives: to ensure the optimal development of an individual regardless of gender, religion, race, ethnic and national origin, and physical and mental constitution, then to educate for mutual tolerance, to develop awareness of gender equality, to respect for diversity, to provide quality education, to promote awareness of individual integrity. These are important security guards, which are part of the bill that we are adopting today. The draft law follows the principle of free choice of type of education, as it is established in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that education is free and parents have the right and duty to raise, educate and maintain their children. The bill also eliminates multi-annual discrimination against children who are educated through international education and education programmes and reduces the fictitious enrolment of home schooling. The difficulties or shortcomings in the recognition of educational documents in double-checking the knowledge of Slovenian children in schools of the child's motherland are addressed, while the minimum extent of compulsory inclusion of Slovenian at primary level is set for both foreign and Slovenian citizens. Members and Members have also listened to the State Council's proposal to increase the number of hours of teaching the Slovenian language to a particular school year. In the SMC Group, we also believe that the proposal of the law does not mean the elitisation of the Slovenian educational space, but merely the legal application of the multi-annual implementation of existing programmes, gives room for possible new programmes and lays down conditions for implementation or operation. The Republic of Slovenia is also not a diplomatically isolated country and it is essential that it also adapts itself to international circumstances in the area of education and education. In the SMC Group, we welcome the bill and forecast its support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u112	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The proposal for a law implementing international programmes in the field of education and education lays down the conditions for the implementation of international programmes in the field of education and education carried out in the Republic of Slovenia in a foreign language and do not have the public authority acquired in accordance with the law governing the organisation and financing of education and education. The bill defines three types of international programmes, namely kindergarten and school programmes, European School International programmes based in Brussels and IB International Programme from Geneva, which are not part of the Slovenian educational system. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, in her opening presentation of the law on the Home Committee, stressed that the arrangements for the implementation of the programmes under this Act have no financial implications, since financial resources are already provided for its implementation in the budget. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly at the Home Committee stressed that it had examined the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and had commented on the financing of the IB and the European School programmes from the State budget. The non-public IB programme can be implemented by a public and private school and the completion of education is aligned with the public instrument on the completion of education issued in publicly applicable educational programmes. As only co-financing of those programmes implemented by public schools is envisaged, the issue of the existence of really justified reasons for distinguishing public and private schools according to the eligibility of co-financing from the State budget is raised. A similar comment was made by the Legal and Legislative Service in co-financing the European School programme. In doing so, the Legislative and Legal Service also considered that Slovenia had committed itself to establishing European schools within the framework of the public network, but this law allows Slovenia to propose the accreditation of a private school for the implementation of the European School programme, which is why there is also a question of the existence of really justified reasons for distinguishing public and private schools as regards eligibility for co-financing from the State budget. I would like to point out that, by law, foreign education programmes must be accredited in the country of origin and must not be contrary to the educational objectives set out in the Financing and Education Act. For these reasons and for the reasons highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service, we will not support or oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on the implementation of international education and education programmes regulates the status of existing international kindergartens and schools and provides a legal basis for the implementation of the European School accreditation programme and the IB international organisation programme. In view of the fact that we are one of the few countries that has not yet regulated this area at legal level, the adoption of this law is inevitable. In view of the present content, in the Desus Group, we agree that this law, to a minimum but to the extent necessary, standardises the content necessary to regulate the status of international institutions, defines international programmes, establishes the status of educational instruments and the way in which programmes are co-financed by public schools. While this part of the school system is not normally subject to our legislation, it seems right and important to us, for the first time, that an important guardian is that an international educational programme, including Slovenian children, must not be contrary to certain indents of Article 2 of the current Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which defines the aims of education and education. Another substantive thing that we have been paying attention to is giving meaning to the Slovenian language in the foreign schools that work with us. Thus, we have adopted two additional articles when considering the draft law on the home working body, opening up the possibility of implementing the programme in the Slovenian language as well, while at the same time providing a learning obligation to teach Slovenian in primary school programmes. This proposal saves, or better said, the force removes the unfavourable obligation to enter our Slovenian children, who are included in existing international schools, into our school system. In order to avoid the current obligation to carry out learning obligations under the Slovenian legal order that are actually carried out in the form of home-schooling, these children will only be able to attend an international school, as they will be recognised in future certificates of these institutions in accordance with our legal order. Members and Members of the Desus Group will, of course, support the proposed regulatory arrangements for international programmes in the field of education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place within half an hour of the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Dr Andrea Barle Lakota. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. By amending the Organization and Financing Act, we do not regulate the provisions of the Constitutional Decision, but we deal with a number of issues that have remained unresolved for several decades, including the situation of social protection institutions. Social security institutions do not have a legal basis for the implementation of education programmes for children with special needs. This law also refers to the need for this explicitly to be standardised under the so-called safe school environment. Many international organisations have warned us that it is not only the objectives of education and education but that the requirement for a secure school environment without violence must be explicitly incorporated into the law. This law also solves questions about how people who can enter school space are being punished for sexual inviolability, and we explicitly write about the fact that, of course, no part of the educational process of such people can be included. This law also regulates a few others, perhaps in terms of technical issues such as the issue of records. This law also deals with personnel-related issues, namely special pedagogical education, the removal of volunteer traineeships and the understanding of the relationship between professional examination and apprenticeship. The law, as I have already pointed out, does not regulate the relationship between public and private, does not govern the constitutional decision because it is the matter that we will submit to Parliament by amending the law on organisation and financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 17th regular session on 1 June this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The proposed law was examined by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Her representative first drew attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which she found that the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 1, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public education programmes was inconsistent with the Constitution and set a one-year deadline for harmonisation. It explained that this period had already expired and therefore the National Assembly must implement this decision as soon as possible, as otherwise it violates the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. She also said that the draft law also interfered with other laws such as the Law on prom and the Law on the Basics of School, which could be detrimental to legal certainty, as it undermines the transparency and consistency of the rule of law. She made several other comments to each article, most of which were taken into account in the proposed amendments to the coalition. The representative of the State Council drew attention to the inadequacy of the situation of professional workers in social welfare institutions carrying out educational work and the issue of the storage and use of data from the State Examination Centre. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD, which were also adopted after the discussion. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport said that the draft law explicitly prohibits all forms of violence, the organisation of a public network for adult education, the rationalisation of the work of educational institutions, the rationalisation of the Ministry responsible for education and other state authorities which obtain data from one place on the status of participants. Entry of social security institutions into the register, prohibition of entry into the educational system of persons in criminal proceedings against sexual inviolability and other minor corrections. The debate was about a decision by the Constitutional Court. The amendment under consideration does not address this issue, and some have therefore considered it to be unconstitutional. The Ministry explained that the novel under consideration was the first part of the changes that had been prepared in advance and constituted urgent changes. The problem of the Constitutional Court's decision will be fully resolved by a new bill, which has already been published on e-democracy. Some of the talk was also about the need to provide a safe and stimulating learning environment and the issue of organising a public network of public education organisations for adults. The debate was still about the envisaged abolition of volunteer traineeships, the regulation of the position of professional workers teaching children with special needs and objective conditions, the need for special education, the establishment and organisation of functional and effective records of staff in the field of education and education, the regulation of the situation of social protection institutions and the prohibition of the conclusion of contracts for the employment of authors, businesses and other contracts in the field of education and education for persons subject to criminal proceedings against sexual inviolability. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. All hail! The main objective of the novel Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is to explicitly state in the law that, in order to carry out education and educational work in kindergartens, schools and other educational institutions, it is necessary to ensure a safe and encouraging learning environment where every form of violence and unequal treatment based on sex, sexual orientation, social and cultural origin, religion, racial, ethical and national preparedness and physical and mental institution or disability is prohibited. These are the principles under which it can sign, I hope, any Member of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the law does not take many steps to regulate these principles from the naked declaration record. Otherwise, the law brings some additions that improve access to the adult education system, especially for those in poor social conditions, but do not address the key systemic problems our education system has. In the United Left, we are in a clear position to ensure that equal treatment, regardless of gender, race, social situation and other personal circumstances, not to continue, only provides accessible free public education to all. At the moment, the biggest systemic threat to public education is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which imposes 100 % of the country's funding on private primary schools. 100% funding means nothing more than a reduction in public education and elitistisation resources, i.e. in the last instance, unequal access to quality education. In the United Left we have signed a request to amend the Constitution, but this process currently stands. We expect that the Minister, who has written in the law all the fine principles on equal treatment and non-discrimination, will support this process and thus help them to be established at the level of the entire school system. In doing so, the amendment of the law abolishes volunteering. Preparation should be an institution through which quality human resources training is provided. However, its abolition cannot, of course, be a solution, there is a lack of funding for the payment of trainees. While the Ministry is planning some kind of calls, the implementation of which is not clear. Savings continue, therefore, rather than seeking systemic solutions. Due to this amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the United Left Group, we will not oppose it, but we cannot get our support either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u121	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education regulates extremely important areas such as the prohibition of corporal punishment and violence against and between children. We also support the explicit prohibition on the inclusion of persons against whom criminal proceedings against sexual inviolability have been instituted in any form of educational work. Christian Democrats welcome the establishment of a network of public adult education organisations, which will create an appropriate support environment that will enable vulnerable groups of the population to participate in a publicly valid adult education programme. Conditions will be put in place for a more stable and therefore better implementation of the school's primary school programme for adults for those who have not completed primary school during compulsory education. It also provides public education programmes in which adults acquire basic capacities and improve general education. Christian Democrats, however, state and point out that this novel does not regulate the most important and urgent area, namely the financing of public primary school programmes in private primary schools. All, and now also the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, are reminded by the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Slovenia that there is already a strong deadline for implementing a constitutional decision on this important area. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, whose children attend such private primary schools with a public programme, are in an unequal position. The coalition always stresses the importance of the rule of law. However, the Constitutional Court's decision is so easily ignored. For us, that's unacceptable. Members of the New Slovenia cannot under any circumstances support this law because it has a significant disadvantage. In fact, it does not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court and the Legislative and Legal Service. We will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u124	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for today's novelty addresses several areas of the umbrella Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. It brings a number of necessary and useful changes resulting from the needs of the educational system as a whole, which were pointed out by the participants themselves and the providers of education and education, a number of civil society organisations, a parliamentary committee on education, science, sport and youth with conclusions adopted, as well as the Ombudsman. Over the years, this novel will provide a basis for the creation of a public network for adult education, resulting in a stable environment for the implementation of programmes and activities, which means a greater possibility of involving vulnerable groups in the form of lifelong learning. We expect this regulatory change to be the basis for amending or amending the Adult Education Act. We also welcome the abolition of discriminatory arrangements for social protection institutions that have been implementing specific and adapted programmes for children and adolescents with special needs for many years. The adoption of the novel will make it possible to sign up to the implementation of the public programmes, which will have a positive impact both on the institutions themselves and on the participants in education and education. The related changes will also be welcome for the career development of professional workers in the field of education and education, children and young people with special needs. We stress, however, that this change does not mean, and must not, the departure of children and adolescents with special needs from inclusion in education and education. With regard to the other solutions proposed in the novel, we only point out some of them, which we estimate are necessary and will have positive effects. The novel therefore abolishes volunteering in the field of education and education, rationalises and complements the central register of participants in education and education, identifies a safe and encouraging learning environment where all forms of violence are prohibited and treats unequally. In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Allow me to conclude by stressing that today we are not discussing the relevant amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which does not concern the financing and functioning of private schools. This, as we have already announced, will be regulated by another novelty, which is already under way. We believe that these solutions will be discussed and decided as soon as possible. Let us remind you that there are quite a few decisions of the Constitutional Court that have not been or have not been implemented in the previous mandates of the National Assembly and previous governments. Respected and respected, let each one have his own share of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Verveg. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. The proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education governs the situation in the areas of public service delivery, adult education, the implementation of education and education in social institutions and the implementation of central records of participants in education and education. In addition, Article 2a prohibits the corporal punishment of children and any other form of violence against and between children and unequal treatment based on sex, sexual orientation, social and cultural origin, religion, racial, ethnic and ethnic origin and particularities in physical and mental development. The following facts should be noted in this regard. A year ago, the National Assembly’s Home Committee adopted a decision to regulate the public adult education network by 31 December. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is only today that we are making this change in the first step in this area, and there will be a need to amend the Adult Education Act and to draw up regulations that are, of course, adopted and prepared by the Ministry. So we can only expect the right systemic solution in the next year. As for corporal punishment and the prohibition of discrimination in schools, there are doubts about employees. For they fear that this article may hide certain traps that could make school work impossible. For example, under this article, a lawyer could turn the teacher’s view into a mobile student and a student. The placement of non-violence in school is, of course, intermediate, and must be recorded in such a way that it will not be problematic. The law also introduces some welcome technical requirements based on information technology, an electronic homebook of participants in education and the implementation of educational providers, which is of course good. According to the Minister, the new law governs matters of social importance and urgency. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the law does not govern the financing of private schools. Let me point out that we have been in an anti-constitutional situation for more than a year in this area. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already tabled a proposal three times to amend the law to regulate the financing of private schools, of course in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Coalition and the Government have rejected our proposal three times on the ground that matters will be settled in this area as soon as possible. We have not yet received these changes in the procedure in the National Assembly. From this point of view, the proposed amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is also unconstitutional. We will not support the proposed amendment of the law as stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u128	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Desus Group supports the proposal of the novel ZOFVI prepared by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The amendment under consideration follows a number of objectives that we agree in our parliamentary group to improve the functioning of the education sector in favour of those involved in the education system. With regard to the prohibition of corporal and other punishment of children, both Members of Parliament and Members Desus believe that the decision on this issue should not be questionable at all. According to our assessment, it is not as important a record of any law or regulation as it is of fear and everyone else who raises and educates children, we work with them in such or other roles, we realize that the following – violence and punishment of children should always be a physical or psychological process that has many negative consequences for all involved, especially and more affected and affected by the child. While we welcome the introduction of the definition of a safe and encouraging school environment, we also welcome Ambassadors and Members of Desus, who, in addition to the inadmissibility of violence, establish a ban on unequal treatment of children. We also support the prohibition of participation in the education and education process of persons subject to criminal proceedings against sexual inviolability, which is complemented by both direct and indirect contact with children. The latter refers to the conclusion of employment contracts, as well as the conclusion of copyright and enterprise contracts, the management of workshops, participation in the creation of curricula, teaching materials and so on. In this regard, let me stress that we also expect an equivalent solution in the area of future legislation towards sport. Children and adolescents with special needs. This law does not introduce anything new here, but it is regulated at the legal level at least what actually exists. As well as my fellow Members in the parliamentary group, we believe that this area, which needs to be given more attention, is more of a shared involvement of all three competent authorities, namely health, social and educational, as it is a complex area where health care, social and educational care and the education role of the country cannot and cannot be separated. What is now available to children, adolescents, and their parents is essentially too little for normal or better said normal and quality life and social inclusion. Therefore, our assessment requires a newer, more advanced, more ambitious and integrated approach, both in the setting of legal solutions and in the integration of measures to help children and parents in their daily lives. As regards the traineeship of graduates in the field of education and education in the Desus Group in accordance with the coalition guidelines and the positions adopted by the Government, I support the abolition of volunteer training in this area as well. Over the past month, the Social Protection Act and I have abolished volunteer training and arranged for professional examinations to be carried out in the field of social work. In particular, in the Desus Group, we point out the content point relating to the establishment of a network of public adult education organisations. The latter has not yet been established in this area despite the commitment in the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2020. Recognizing that education, which ends in youth, is simply no longer sufficient for either individual or modern society, is the reason why lifelong education is increasingly important. The rapidly changing situation, the complexity and diversity of domestic and global challenges also require an adequate response of the education system at the level of youth education, in particular the continuous education and training of adults for personal and social development and the need to develop the labour market. Adult education is also extremely important from the point of view of pensioners, since many benefit from a variety of benefits, from the quality of living free time to learning skills that help overcome the obstacles that people face in the fall of life. In the Desus Group, we agree that a clear legal basis for the establishment of a public network of public education organisations for adults will establish an area-based, adequately and financially stable support environment that will enable vulnerable groups of the population to integrate into the public education programmes that are or will continue to be designed to improve their educational status and acquire adequate skills and knowledge of better employment and quality of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u129	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as we believe it preserves a stable and predictable environment, which is crucial for the functioning of schools. The text of the novel thus includes provisions for greater protection of children against unequal treatment and various forms of violence, including sexual violence. The records on the provision of a safe and conducive learning environment and the prohibition on the conclusion of any educational and educational contracts for persons subject to criminal proceedings against sexual inviolability are also a response to warnings from the domestic and international public. In the Group we also welcome the abolition of volunteer traineeships, which did not achieve the expected effects of the transition from study to employment, even more so, many times has been born into some modern post-graduate exploitation of young people. In order to ensure equal opportunities for employment in education and education, the proposal also suspends traineeships as a prerequisite for accession to the professional examination. We would also like to point out that the solution by which social protection agencies also obtain officially recognised educational work as they enter into the register, which means, of course, that these programmes will be implemented in the same standards and standards as in kindergartens or schools. Let us say that we also understand in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service a warning regarding the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. We note, however, the caution in deciding on the extent of public financial support for private education. We believe that a social consensus has been reached on the importance of a quality and accessible public school that has been built over the years, a commitment that requires not only legal but also broader social and, last but not least, political judgement. That is why, together with the other Members, we have prepared and tabled a proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution, with which we will maintain a public primary school so that it will be accessible to everyone in the future. But of course, in the coming stages of decision-making in the National Assembly. The subject law that we are considering today and, as I said, we will support the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the agenda with this. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a smoker service bill. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 52 members and Members of Parliament, signed first by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u132	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on chimney services prepared by the Ministry of the Environment and Space, aware of the importance of the problem, last year. At that time, the discussion was expected to show the need for further coordination and, as a result, all further proceedings stopped or waited for further consideration. As you all know, this is a very receptive issue, where in some environments opinions on solutions are shared or are on two very conflicting fields. In front of us, there is a proposal in which much effort has been made, and I am sure that it is most professionally appropriate and also suitable for users. I am aware, however, that the general compromise in view of the previous debate is not realistic. The basic guide in the drafting of the law is protection of human health and protection of property, fire safety, care for cleaner air and energy efficiency. For this reason, we are convinced of the correctness of the decision on regulation, because we do not think it appropriate to leave such an important area only to the legality of the free market. The proposed licensing system, in our view, represents a relatively small restriction on employment against limiting irreparable damage caused by poisoning or even death as a result of poorly functioning devices or fires. The main novelty of the proposed new system is the possibility for users to freely choose between licensed operators of chimneys. The licence will be awarded and withdrawn by administrative units and will provide adequate evidence of the professional competence of the smoker service provider. The licence will apply to the entire territory of Slovenia. The availability of services is ensured in a way that the smoker company, which is the closest to the user geographically, is legally required to provide the user with all the prescribed services upon call. I am convinced that the possible fears of chimney companies are overstated in connection with job losses. Most people in Slovenia are satisfied with their smoker service provider. The bill, however, offers an appropriate solution for all others who will thus be able to choose another contractor. I estimate that this will also have a positive impact on increasing competition between companies, which can only be reflected in better quality services and not in higher prices, as the proposal for a law provides for the highest permitted price for the provision of services. The bill before you also provides for the upgrade of the register of small combustion plants, chimney services and the reporting of the operator to the public public smokers’ services – EviDim. Information on users and operators, their skills and the conditions for obtaining a licence will thus be added to the record, which will enable and facilitate our control. The inspection of the implementation of the regulations relating to the tasks of chimneys, chimney companies and users of chimney services shall be carried out in accordance with the cross-cutting nature of the subject under the responsibility of several inspections. Thus, the environmental protection and health protection provisions are controlled by the environmental inspection. Control over fire protection, however, is responsible for protecting against natural and other accidents. With regard to the prices for the operation of chimney services, the supervision shall be carried out by an inspection which shall be responsible for the market. With a view to effective control, the bill also provides for the human resources enhancement of the environmental inspection. At the Ministry, we believe that the proposed scheme for the provision of chimney services will prove effective and that both users and operators will be satisfied with the solutions it brings. We understand that, given that this is a new system, there will be a certain period of adjustment, but we know that this will apply to any changes, including those that prove to be appropriate and welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u134	Dear, President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law on chimney services is new in the area of chimneys. The government has rushed through the re-establishment of the legal regime, as the existing legislation applies only until the end of this year. If the new law had not been adopted by then, smoking would have become a completely disorderly area. The bill's proposal for regulation brings some positive changes. As one of them, I would like to point out the possibility for users to choose the chimneys themselves, no matter where the place is. The chimney licence that would be issued by the law would apply to the whole of our country. This represents a step towards opening up competition, which we welcome in New Slovenia. Citizens must be able to choose for themselves which chimney will take care of their combustion plant. The chimney monopolies for Christian Democrats are not acceptable. In accordance with the proposal of the Government Act, taking into account prices in activities with a similar level of professional education, the Minister shall fix the maximum price per unit of time and shall set a time standard for individual chimney services. The Government bases the maximum price in the proposal on the fact that the service is compulsory for the user, which is supposed to have a strong impact on the market system. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law entails the termination of the status of the public service and the liberalisation of the chimney industry services, it is questionable whether price restrictions are justified, since they are generally set by the market in open competition. If prices are too high, the supply of chimney services and thus competition will increase. However, for the entry of chimneys into the management of activities, their 100 professional competence and reliability should be ensured. At the speed of today's technical development, it is somewhat strange that the bill provides for a completely permanent licence without the required training to maintain it. If the chimney is more than 25 kilometres away from the user, the bill also provides for the possibility of paying travel costs, which the chimney might not charge if it wants to maintain a more competitive position. In this regard, the question of the disproportionately poor situation of persons with residence, which is more than 25 kilometres away from the chimney, is raised. As one of the shortcomings of the proposal, we can also point out a possible conflict of interest that would arise if a chimney licence were obtained by an installer or a repairman. In such a case, a person would oversee his own work, which is problematic for us. It is also incomprehensible that a bill does not oblige users to care for their combustion plants in 2017, which may help to increase the safety risk in the country. In Nova Slovenija, we also have doubts as to whether the Government or the competent ministry will be able to prepare and adopt by the end of the year all the required sub-legislative acts that would allow for the normal implementation of the regulations in the area of chimneys. We also express our dissatisfaction at this point that the professional public organisations have not been sufficiently involved in the drafting of the bill, following their claim. However, since the proposal for a law on chimney services brings only a few positive changes and since further discussion on this subject could be useful, in New Slovenia we will not oppose the bill at this stage of the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u136	Honourable, President-in-Office, Honourable Minister of my dear colleague and colleague! One of the important assessments of the current state of the concession system in certain areas is that the system works satisfactorily. It is satisfied with the ILO surveys about 86% of respondents from the representative sample. Therefore, they do not see any need for substantial changes in the system. The ILO has never even tried to cite the substantive reasons for such changes in the law. The licensing system proposed by the Smoker Services Act, which is rather incomplete, untested, unconstitutional to cities, as reported by the profession, and even illegal, and by risk assessment, poses an extremely high level of risk so that the introduction of a new licensing system, i.e. the powerless system, can quickly reduce the quality of both air and fire safety. The ILO's bill foresees that the current bad record will resolve this, as it is a small resort – 550 000. We suggest that the drafters of the amendment should take a very serious look at the proposal sent to the Ministry of Environment and Space by many stakeholders at the time of the drafting of this law. A modified concessionary system was proposed, which according to the legal profession is also the only real solution. However, it would be very easy to modify so that every user can each year during a transitional period, that is, outside the heating season, replace the concessionaire, and it is also necessary to fine-tune the requirements for continuous training and introduce requirements for new measurements that can be measured remotely from a kind of laser system. There are also European financial resources for this. Experts estimate that only a modified concession system with specific areas for individual chimney undertakings will not fully address all open issues. In fact, there is no evidence of the claim that the licensing system will work. In support of this claim, the Ministry is aware of the risk assessment when the licensing system is introduced without a transitional period and without the necessary data in EviDim. However, the ILO has not produced any assessment to at least theoretically demonstrate the functioning of the system. There is also no need to employ 10 new inspectors. If we are already hiring new staff in the public administration in the field of environmental protection, these personnel are much more needed elsewhere, let's say in the environment, rather than strengthening the ARSO in accelerating environmental consent procedures and allowed. The proposal for a new law is weak and inconceivable, which is confirmed indirectly by the ILO's response to a question raised by the ZEC, where, among other things, they recognise that they have only a partial opinion from the Government's Legal Services and that they have an opinion on the unconstitutionality and illegality of this proposal, which is a very serious matter. Of course, the current chimney companies are not harmless. Reverse. In fact, there are quite a few unfair companies and individuals that have not been sanctioned by the ILO so far, but even addressed them by granting concessions. Let me sum it up for a little bit. While the current system is functioning, it would be necessary to introduce some improvements. The system proposed by the Government also has many shortcomings. The proposal is incomplete, needs modifications and additions. We propose that the drafter of the law very seriously consider a modified concession system which, with the excellent control of the ILO and the strict sanctioning of concessionaires, can contribute to the gradual improvement of our air and fire safety. The essence of everything new should go in this direction, so that the services should not be reflected in the countryside in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the views of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The implementation of chimney services includes the provision of measurements, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke ducts and airbags. All this because of environmental protection, efficient use of energy, protection of human health and protection against fire. The area was originally regulated by the Environmental Protection Act. It was first introduced in 2004 by a novel, which stipulated that since 7 May 2004 this was no longer a local economic service, but a state economic service. This amended regime is still in force today, meaning that chimney services are provided in the form of concession activities, so concessions are granted and concession contracts are concluded. In this way, the operator shall be granted the exclusive right to carry out the chimney service for a single chimney area in the country. The 2013 Law on Environmental Protection has made an important contribution to the regulation of this activity, by providing for the abolition of chimney activity from the legal framework of economic public services, which would lead to the full liberalisation of the area if the area were not regulated in a different way. Since chimney service services are not provided exclusively and only in the interests of the user of the services, but also in the public interest in particular, we believe that more appropriate solutions should be written in the Group of the Modern Centre Party to regulate this area. Indeed, the assessment has prevailed that the provision of chimney services cannot be completely without regulation and free market, but that regulation of this area is also necessary in the future. The proposal for the Smoker Services Act therefore stems from the assumption that the smoker service user should be allowed to choose a chimney service, which can be ensured by the introduction of a licensing system. The licensing system offers some interesting solutions, which are certainly suitable for further discussion and at the same time raises a number of substantive issues related to the implementation of these solutions in practice. It is more than obvious that in the stage of the preliminary examinations of the law a strong bisexual opinion was drawn up by the interested and professional public. On the one hand, there are indications that the current regime allows for a monopoly on services, irregularities, abuses and should allow the introduction of a free market for services with free pricing. On the other hand, chimneys, combined under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, point to the content of the new proposal at issue relating to questions of liability in the provision of the management of chimney services, the effectiveness of control through the established register of EviDim, the restriction of the prices of chimney services, the requirements for obtaining an education licence and other important substantive issues. While the Group of the Modern Centre Party supports amendments at the principal level, we are also aware that this is a completely new concept of the regulation of the area of chimney services, which needs to be introduced in a deliberate and gradual manner by clarifying all the concerns expressed by the interested and professional public. In our desire for constructive dialogue in the course of the state-level consideration of the bill, we believe that, at this stage, the proposal for a law on chimney services is suitable for further consideration and we believe that today's debate will help clarify the substantive issues and create a proposal that will offer the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! This government is trying to make a difference here and there, but after certain changes have been made after one month, half a year or a year, we see that these changes have been incomplete and have had bad consequences. And quite a few laws have already been made in this mandate. The second thing that this government is preparing is that it is preparing measures for a time when at least 80% of this environment will no longer be between us, or these measures are being prepared by officials who are pursuing their own interests. Allow me to introduce one quote: "The current system is, in the opinion of everyone, both the professions and users need to be renovated, placed on new foundations, maintained the healthy core of the current system arrangements and improved by Austria and Germany, which have also coordinated with the European Commission." I myself have been in Parliament since 2005 when we asked loudly at one of the first meetings of the coalition at that time whether the solution that was drawn up by Mr Anton Rop on the last day of the Robbery's government by regulation was that the Secretary of State had adopted a regulation a few days earlier without regulation, whether it was the law or rather keeping the former system in order to provide the municipalities with chimney services, or, apparently, with the courage and wisdom of cutting through the area of concessional solutions and introducing a licensing system. But the fact is that we are now in 2016, when water has been running down our throats for at least one year in terms of regulating the area of chimney services, and then we get such a law, which is not really a dick, not a mouse. It sounds good – licenses. Allow me to present further the reasons why, at least in this stage of the draft law in the SDS Group, we will not support it, because we believe that it is only beautiful corrections, which, at least according to the information provided by both the profession on the one hand and by civil initiatives, thus users, will bring even worse results in the future than this concession system, which is not complete, has many irregularities. In the SDS Group, we are confident that in a few years or two we will find that it has nevertheless been better than a proposal for a law that is before us, which is completely incomplete. That the system needs to be changed, the Court of Auditors already notes. We have two extensive reports of them that reveal what is wrong, what is wrong, and who should do everything, and who in particular should no longer be involved in the smoke industry. But look at the fraction, just the biggest debtors of the Court of Auditors report are the main initiators of the system that would even blur the area of the chimney service even more. In the SDS Group, once again, the Ministry of Environment and Space is part of the problem and not part of the solution. I may then, on my own behalf, dare to say what are the personal connections between the people at the Ministry and between the individual professors who are good at doing the analysis and among the largest chimney companies in the interest of increasing this confusion in the area of chimney services. Allow me to go through this way through the position of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and, on the other hand, also civil initiatives and the owners of apartments. I quote: "The announcement has been made that after the expiry of one post the Members will again be faced with the proposal for a smoker service law. At that time, it was clear that the lawmaker was not expected to be ready for a serious preparation of an acceptable and professionally sound smoker service law, even less so for the necessary and predictable extensive regulations. The proposal for a law is not prepared on professional grounds and grounds, which is why, should the bill be adopted, the objectives of this law will not be reached. Not least are users prepared for the implementation of this law, but even fewer performers and countries that play a key role. It should also be noted that, despite the promises and decisions of the Ministry of Environment and Space, a working group was not set up in which representatives of both chambers and civil initiatives, as well as other interested public, would participate." And here is the first question to the Minister: what and how much work has been done on this law since December 2015, when ad hoc adopted the extension of the regime in force until today? It also states that, according to last year's proposal, only the observation was taken of the fact that fines for users were too high in the case of unsettled chimney services. Then there are quite a few sides to the crucial dilemmas about the proposal for a smoker service law that is ahead of us today. Otherwise, the ministry will be proud, if we change a little, or we will change a lot, we will have a licensing system, great, that's what citizens demand and ask, and on the other hand, smokers can still survive. But when we look at the exact provisions of the law, we see that there will be almost no positive change. We will have a free market, which will still be a compulsory public economic service. If you ask one economist how these two – the free market and the compulsory public service – belong in the same sentence, everyone will say that it does not belong in any way. Perhaps we can give a bit of commendation to the Minister with a team that, after all the calls and conclusions of the competent working bodies and the public, only partially regulated the field of records, and the question is, for whom has the issue of control been addressed. This way they write that there will be inequalities in access to services for users living in remote areas, which is nothing new for this government, which deals conceptually only with the larger and those in the centres, and for people in rural areas, they are told by the local "down hangs" and does not deal with real problems. Such a provision undisputedly leads to less regular service delivery due to higher prices, that is, a 25km censorship where the older population often lives. The Ministry of Control foresees about 8 or 10 inspectors, which means only the non-controlling of this work in the future. The bill also provides that it is totally unacceptable that obligations for users should not occur until one year after the law is in force. So 500 000 users will be a test rabbit another year, when the ministry tells us how to protect people, how we need to protect our environment and the rest of our flora. It is clear that the ILO, through such a proposal, intends to destroy mainly the good existing operators of chimney services, because in the back of the law, they are pressured by those who, apart from the competent ministry, are part of the problem and not part of the solution. Then, in my own position, I will be able to say a few chimney companies, a respected minister, who should be removed from anything that touches the chimney service immediately. But these gentlemen are going to make their own nursery and drive those chimneys out of this nursery that are good. In the last five years, we've almost destroyed the chimney section. Just look at how many new masters there have been in the last five years. One hand is too much. So we destroyed the profession, and they come to Slovenia with forged diplomas – evidentiaryly, people from Bosnia, Romania. Certain chimney companies replace each other with people to meet quotas, and the ministry does nothing. Even this transitional period of one year has become even more complicated. And now you expect 8 or 10 inspectors to do some kind of miracle with the administrative units. Then we'll talk about administrative units. In short, smoking as a concession model is just a floscule, which, depending on what the law brings, when we read it and especially with fear, what happens in Slovenian offices, when you are through a regulation, such or different, and through regulations people in the ministry make their kindergarten even stronger, and for users much worse, our concern is that this law does not bring almost anything positive, perhaps other than the problem of records, very much in place. Let's move on. Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Also a lot of questions, I hear there's no answer. Civil initiatives. I have a few centimetres of foot on the bench there, where there are such comments from civil initiatives, individual users who have problems in practice, as well as all other associations. And I'm just going to quote three, four sentences. Civil initiatives say: "The main objective of this law is to encourage chimney services and discipline owners of small combustion plants. The chimneys will also be suctioned by administrative units..." – here I do not agree with the 'prises', the ministry will force them to do something else, for which they are certainly not responsible, not qualified – "and, of course, certain promoters of additional education and periodic test of knowledge will be suctioned, who wants to make chimney smokers into officials in white robes. At the same time, it is crucial to significantly reduce the quality of chimney services and increase the possibility of abuse. But obviously it doesn't matter to the government." Then we have the Property Owners' Association, ten pages of concrete proposals and questions that are not answered once and for all, and we can only hope that, given that most of the coalition is 100 kilometers away from the tour, it will not look to the left and right what will be done. I have before me the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the legislation of the previous law, which, in December 2015, is more than 90% equal to the current law. Ten, nine pages: unconstitutionality, illegality, non-systematicity, incompetence, no, no, no, and so on. We note that some of the solutions proposed are inadequate, it is not possible to determine how they will be managed and how they will remain. Contrary to the objectives of service delivery, there is no comparative analysis, and the sub-legal acts will be those who decide despite what we will do. In short, officials will get their kindergarten back. And to conclude, we will not be able to implement the law and will not be able to implement it because of the technical shortcomings that he himself has pointed out in the opening argument. And so on. I will not now go to two sides of the concrete evidence why the names and surnames are set both by the Ministry of the Environment and Space and by the area of certain chimney services, because they are both official and private, but the Minister will probably be able to answer whether it is part of the problem or part of the solution. In short, we will only get some new model, which will be pioneerly supported, how this is a free market, czech, because you, too, are more right-wing liberally oriented Members will support this. In fact, in the end, there will be even less choice between chimneys, because many of the better ones you have destroyed, and these will be poor with the help of officials at the Ministry of Environment and Space, where the vast majority of people in this area have been doing their job since 2004. These are some licenses that will continue to be mandatory, although prices will be maximised, but just because of what the law says, the law will not be any better for the users, the dynamics of the reviews, which we believe is also one of the key issues, are almost unchanged. And once again, we have two reports from the Court of Auditors, and the Ministry has already had, not only under the current Minister, the Minister-designate, that it will not be misunderstood, the possibility of driving out bad chimneys already. But no, these smokers have also made their kindergarten even stronger with a political hand. Therefore, by cooperating with the fact that the administrative units will be able to carry out this business by the carrier of what the law does, which they are not trained to do, probably financially or physically, the Ministry has taken this for no reason, that administrative units will do this, that there are still a lot of open questions about the chimney service in multi-housing buildings, so that control is likely to be worse than it is now and so on. To conclude, I will quote the position that we agree with in the SDS Group: "The Smoker Service Act is not suitable for further consideration, so we propose that it be rejected or, in the extreme case, amended before further consideration and complemented by achieving the objectives of this public service, in order to be feasible and cost-effective for users and the country, so that it does not lead to the collapse of the existing system, the bankruptcy of existing operators and the departure of key staff into other activities." So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Fox. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister of Labour, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Finally, it is difficult for us to expect a proposal for a law on chimney services. It's about regulating an area that's been in our country for a long time. The fact is that it is a compulsory economic public service aimed at protecting both health, property, environmental protection, fire safety and, last but not least, achieving greater energy efficiency for small combustion plants. Several of the last governments and ministries responsible for the environment received a huge number of complaints about the provision of chimney services. This is a service that needs to be implemented, but it is extremely undesirable, but every time one of the past governments tackles this problem, there is even greater public disapproval. The most frequent complaints were over the high bills for chimney services. Users also complained about chimneys digging through combustion plants, although therefore they do not have the necessary knowledge and skills. The next observation was that smokers do their jobs poorly, are disrespectful to customers, and could even list them. In every attempt to regulate this area, several different civil initiatives and chimney-based associations have emerged again and again and again, who wanted to lead the drafting of legislation each in their own direction. Civil initiatives most often advocated the idea of a complete free market, the contracts signed between the chimney smoker and the party in which the price would also be determined, also opposed to sanctions against those who did not let smokers in the house or impeded it in its work. The smokers, on the other hand, were angry at the fact that licenses were being introduced, that the user would be able to choose the chimney and so on. With such conflicting opinions, the Ministry had an extremely difficult task of finding a compromise solution that would at least partially correspond to all stakeholders. In reviewing the comments made by civil initiatives, it appeared that their opinions were clearly duplex. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the Ministry has done its job well in preparing this law. For we believe that licences that are not time-bound and locally limited are a good solution. An even better solution is that each user will be able to choose their chimney. At this point, we cannot pass the impression that the right license and choice of chimneys will allow foreigners to take over the chimney industry in Slovenia and that many chimneys will be out of work. It's our opinion that such fears are superfluous. If the chimneyman did his job as a concessionaire well and created a good and honest relationship with the user, then we do not see any obstacles that would not remain the first and only choice for his current client. But it is true that now they will have to find their own customers. The obligations of smokers or chimney companies are not substantially changed by this proposal of the law; the only novelty for them is the mandatory renewal of knowledge, which we estimate is essential for every chimneyman who wants to continue his work well and quality and to follow new trends in the field of combustion plants. The record, which has already been mentioned today, of course it already exists, but unfortunately it is still very incomplete, as many concessionaires, I repeat, have failed to do their work and have not entered the necessary data into the record. The records will now be maintained by the administrative unit and the data will continue to have to be recorded by chimneys. One of the most exposed issues in this bill is, in addition to the level of prices, the issue of control. The fact is, we're human beings, so if something's not mandatory, then we're not gonna do it. For example, a good example is the use of seat belts in a car. Regardless of all the evidence that belts save lives, most of them did not use them until it became a commitment. And that's the way it is with inspection of combustion plants and chimneys. If this is left to people’s discretion, then most chimneys will not be regularly inspected and cleaned, even in the light of a poor financial situation, when we know that people, especially those with low incomes and also pensions, are looking at every cent, and consider carefully how they use it. Nor is the level of awareness and accountability of people at such a high level that they decide on their own to undertake regular annual reviews, the necessary cleaning and measurement of emissions due to the protection of their health and safety, let alone environmental protection. Therefore, according to our assessment, the mandatory annual review must remain a safeguard for the protection of human health, the environment and also for greater fire safety. The only additional task that the user will have under this law is that, in addition to allowing chimneys to inspect combustion plants, he will keep records of the review and correct any errors. However, the supervision will be carried out by different inspectors, both environmental, fire, market and health, resulting in ten new jobs in the inspection services. Each inspector will, of course, exercise control in his own field. In our Group of Members, we hope that today's general debate will have a good idea of how to improve the law in order to make it even more user-friendly and also to the operators of chimney services. The easiest thing is to criticize everything through something rather than make good concrete proposals for improvement. I therefore expect a constructive debate to help the ministry prepare any amendments that will give added value to the bill for the wider support of the majority of the groups. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u143	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the common interest of the user and the contractor should guide the adoption of the law on chimney services. The proposed law, according to our belief, thus follows a common interest in many points. On the basis of comments made by the professional public in the context of last year's attempted adoption of the law, the competent ministry has hastened with the preparation of a new proposal and has therefore largely taken into account the section's comments, but unfortunately we have not yet been able to reconcile fully all the factors concerning chimney-based services. The novelty of the proposed system for chimneys in the licensing system is that they will no longer be restricted to areas. Existing operators will be able to continue their activities if they comply with the conditions laid down in the proposal. The advantage is also that the new system provides an opportunity for those who have so far been unable to carry out activities so that they can enter it when the conditions are met. News for the user of chimney services is the choice of a chimney company, price competitiveness of services, maximum permitted prices of services and higher quality of services foreseen. A smoker service user should be allowed to choose a chimney service, which can be ensured by the introduction of a licensing system. The licenses will be given to the chimney and taken away from the administrative units. The licence will not be restricted locally, it will apply to the entire territory of Slovenia and will not be limited in time. The new law also regulates inspection supervision and price structure, which is maximised. In accordance with the proposal of the law, chimneys are operated by chimneys and by chimney companies. The obligations of chimney or chimney companies do not change significantly from the existing regime. Their tasks include reviewing the device to the prescribed extent and in a prescribed manner, implementing records of services performed, informing the user of the small combustion plant of any irregularities and proposing the elimination of the errors detected, and entering small combustion plants and services into the record. The obligation for chimneys is to restore knowledge through education. The proposal also lays down the obligations of the user of chimney services, which are the obligation to choose a chimney company, to allow the inspection of a small combustion plant within the prescribed time limits and in a prescribed manner, to keep records of the inspection and to remedy any errors found. The proposed system also addresses the issue of market disturbances in price movements and the affordability of chimney services through the establishment of the maximum permitted price for chimney services. The applicant’s opinion is that the arrangement setting the maximum price of the hourly item is necessary as it is a matter of providing services that are compulsory. The compulsory service may lead to greater deviations in the amounts charged for the provision of the chimney service to users. The existing concession regime has also proved to be very difficult administratively, as the granting and withdrawal of concessions are extremely long-term. Reducing administrative procedures will allow for a greater focus on supervision and revision of regulations in this area. At the same time, it is possible to have empty areas for withdrawal of concessions in the concession system, since during the period when the concession is withdrawn and a new concession is granted, which generally takes into account all the hands attached to the administrative procedure, is not short, there is no operator in the area which users could call, which is not available in the case of the licensing system. The aim of the provision of services under the law is to protect the environment, health and property of people, fire safety and the energy efficiency of small combustion plants. The proposed system represents a relatively small restriction in terms of the free functioning of the market against the significant limitation of irreparable damage to both people and to the environment due to contaminants or even deaths, fires and air pollution. Finally, it should be borne in mind that all other chimney services, such as the design and implementation of combustion plants, the service of combustion plants, repairs, replacements and so on, are freely available on the market, which increases the need to regulate chimney activity. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law at this stage of the legislative process, stressing that, in the next legislative phase, we want open issues to be aligned with all stakeholders and thus reach an environment and a people-friendly solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Maria Bachich. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The Smoker Services Act is a typical example of how the government, in its security to neoliberal free market dogmas, always resorts to the same solutions: deregulation, privatisation, liberalisation. The law under consideration is a case in point, and the problems faced by this country in the area of chimneys have long been known. At first, we had a public economic service, then a compulsory state economic service, which has abandoned itself and introduced a concessionary system that is in force today and is now leaving and a licensing system is being introduced. It is true that the provision of chimney services is still regulated to a certain extent, but the trend here is clear: slowly but persistently, the provision of chimney services, which are of exceptional importance both for the provision of human health and for the provision of environmental protection, is left to the so-called free market. The country's retreating more and more, capital cuts. The system we have today is bad. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out this. Concessions for the provision of chimney services are concentrated and centralised in some companies that have more than 10, up to 26 concessions, problems with the quality of services, there are many opportunities for earnings, irregularities, illegality and abuse. Moreover, due to the current principle – one concession per area users cannot choose another in case of dissatisfaction with the contractor. This is one of the things that we think is good in the United Left. Nevertheless, the market system will not address the previously mentioned shortcomings of the existing system, but will encourage them to a large extent. In addition to establishing competitiveness, the proposed law also contains extensions to pre-carry the provision of chimney services through chimney companies which will be able to employ chimney smokers through agencies or other non-standard forms of employment and thus create uncertainty in the field of work in this sector. The opening of competition is likely not to lead to an increase in the number of providers of chimney services, but will be the largest smoking companies already in control of the left market share in the concession system simply swallow small ones. Some kind of oligopol will be established, but despite the apparent possibility of free choice of smokers' services providers, this will still be very limited for users. The government could opt for practically any form of ensuring the accessibility of chimney services to citizens. According to the United Left, smoking services from a health and environmental point of view are so sensitive that in no case should they be left to the market. The State should provide the form of a compulsory state-owned company for the provision of chimney services. To begin with, it could also address some of the shortcomings of the existing concession scheme. In particular, strengthen control and allow more concessionaires in a limited area and limit the number of concessions awarded to an individual operator to prevent the spread of so-called smokers tycoons. Unfortunately, the government, on the contrary, has decided to introduce a licensing system and has taken the next step towards the liberalisation of chimney services. This is unacceptable for the United Left and we will therefore vote against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Ljubo Žnidar should be prepared for him. Mr. Rance, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u148	President, thank you for your word. I will be able to say a little again in the beginning that, when we talk about economic issues in this House, unfortunately, the hall is empty, as it is today, and this raises some concern for me, especially because this topic, which has been addressed in various public debates, has been treated as very attractive, interesting, drawing opinions from the left and right, and I think that we have only come up with some information and information that is important in the process of these democratic debates. I would also welcome the opposition's so-called economic wing of the SDS opposition, which is here. I think that we are also involved in constructive discussions on the Committee on the Economy. As I see it, a wide debate has already taken place with Mr Lisce and his colleague in a position, so I think we are on the right track, but in today's debate we will come up with one good solution that we also want. Perhaps I would say that chimney smokers bring happiness and it is right to remember this today and, in fact, to deal in some way with a broader area that concerns both the environment, the economy and the environment in which we live. This law touches both the safety of life and the healthy environment, so I think it is high time that with some solution that will regulate it in a transparent and appropriate way, we also come to Parliament and, through consideration, we find one real solution. But when these discussions took place, I felt that chimney smokers brought not only happiness but also sometimes high bills. Thus, it was also clear from this debate that the arrangements we have so far are not the way we want them to be, and that we should bow our heads and find one solution that will satisfy all of us – both citizens and users, as well as current concessionaires, and those who would like to carry out this activity, but now they do not have this option because of possible inappropriate solutions. If we touch on history, this area was originally regulated by the Environmental Protection Act and in 2004 there was a solution to the so-called economic public service and, in fact, a change in this area by allowing chimney companies to obtain concessions which were linked to certain territorial areas and in these areas there was no healthy competition or the possibility of providing services here to various chimney companies that are also engaged in this activity. For this reason, there was also an initiative and in 2013 a law that would regulate it in some way. At that time, coalition parties prepared an amendment to legislation that would eliminate one of the anomalies in this area and introduce a system that would allow for the selection of chimneys so that the activity of chimney companies would not be linked to a certain number of concessionaires in an area. Of course, this has in some way stimulated the different debates, opinions on this. Even when we discussed the Forest Management Act, we met up with the subject of concessionaires, and here I would say that different positions were expressed, both for concessionaires, for users and also for various civil associations. I think we have quite a hard nut ahead of us, which we have to crack in some way, is similar to the forest management law. I believe that we will also find here an appropriate solution that will offer the possibility of some competitive offer on the market and access to this important service to all citizens and citizens. As these discussions have shown that different opinions, different initiatives, have taken place after the initial consideration of this law that it has been withdrawn from the procedure and has essentially extended the existing regime by 2016. This was a wise decision because with some solution to force your head through the wall is unproductive and could cause more bad will or come up with some bad solution. Therefore, the possibility was offered for the Ministry to prepare, in the framework of legislative procedures, on the basis of these public debates, a change in the original solution and to bring these different solutions together in some way and to find a compromise solution. This law is now under consideration, and I think that we have also received one solution, which in some ways takes into account all these different, sometimes diametric opinions, and that in fact gives the possibility that this law, in the debate on the democratic path, should be amended and that the final result will be an applicable law, which would also solve all these dilemmas that have been imposed. Of course, the reasons for the adoption of this law are also that attempts have been made in the previous mandate on this subject and that there have been no understanding or no final solutions. Thus this matter has been going on for a very long time, and in some ways also calls for a solution as soon as possible, so that it would not turn out that we have not actually matured so democratically enough to find one suitable solution in our parliamentary process. I see this solution, as I have already said, as one compromise that will give such existing concessionaires the opportunity to continue to provide services after this new licensing process that we are introducing, and at the same time this procedure would have the opportunity to exclude any other provider that does not provide services that are of interest to all of us in the current practice. Of course, I also see another important gain because this solution will also offer a chance for smaller entrepreneurs to show up on the market for some new bidders. And in the case of supply and demand for all economic legality, there is, for the first time, a reduction in prices in the long term and due to competition, an improvement in the quality of services. And this is essentially, if we say, the basic motto of this law, this solution that somehow preserves the possibility of carrying out these activities to the concessionaires so far, but also offers an opportunity for the new so-called small-scale chimney companies or individuals who also provide this service well. This solution of the licensing system clearly defines the duties of the user, who must provide a review of the so-called newly built combustion plant, to enable entry into the record. Of course, further procedures should also allow the provision of chimney services. This licensing system also clearly defines the tasks of chimney companies relating to all parts related to the cleaning of combustion plants, measurement, removal of impurities and tar linings, as well as information to the user on energy efficiency and similar matters related to this law. There is also a certain price for chimney services, which is in some ways limited up, which is in any case a good sign because it is expected that price reductions on the market will occur when the service offers more. The introduction of the so-called new registration system is also new, as this will allow for transparent inspection of combustion plants throughout Slovenia, supervision and implementation of these services in accordance with the legislation adopted. Of course, if I sum up at the end somehow, there were a lot of discussions on this topic or something else. They were also interesting. When you have listened to these different opinions, the question is also raised, as well as some major challenge, how to bring these different opinions into one marriage form on the common denominator. If you have chosen some starting points, it is important that licences are introduced instead of concessions so that the user can, if you can already choose his own personal physician, also be able to choose a chimney to provide these services also by means of so-called small chimneys. It is said that the law also has a hearing for smaller entrepreneurs. By opening up the market, we also want to encourage competition on the market, thus triggering some normal process of price reduction and, on the other hand, improving the quality of services. If I finish for a little while. I followed this public debate, which was very varied, and I also actively participated in the adoption of the Forest Management Act, where we also met with a similar topic. I think there have been a lot of concerns there, but then, in a quality parliamentary debate, we came up with some good solutions. Of course, at the end of the day, I would say that by adopting this law I wish that chimney smokers would bring us all happiness, including quality debates. Some are a little tired today, so that side here is empty, but let's show respect for the economic themes in Parliament, let's get a little more focused and forget about some arguments. I am also an optimist, I think that the last tick here is very active, including a colleague in the second row, so I think we will find good solutions for marriage, for a better environment and for the happiness of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Rance. The next debater is Mr Ljubo Žnidar, to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the new law or proposal on chimney services passes from concessions to licences. And I wonder what the difference is. This new law makes no difference; the work will be done as before. We're just introducing a new procedure, or we've invented a new name, now there's no concession, there's actually going to be a transition to a licensing system. In fact, I'm not saying we're putting the chimney section back on track now, if I say sports, because we're going to have to get a license. In order to obtain a licence, entities will have to meet certain conditions. In short, again from the beginning. I have here one specific question for the Minister: how much will it cost to obtain the license of one craftsman who has been doing this activity for 30 years? How much is that gonna cost him? Now we're going to go check the old chimney master again if he's capable of managing this chimney service because we invented a new name. Now we're going to go check on him, because today we don't believe in his expertise anymore, in his skills, in his knowledge, but we're going to charge him with a few costs, a few administrations to get him into an administrative unit that I don't know how he'll once be qualified to give out the licenses for chimney activity. Because we've moved on to some new name. Although it's different legal entities to understand each other. I know that, I know that, but I'm talking specifically about a chimney master who's been doing this activity for 30 years. That's my particular question. What's the surveillance going to be like? We are very proud of the fact that we will hire ten new inspectors to exercise control. Yeah, well, why don't we put in order of control here now, etc.? I say that even now the ministry has been an extremely bad master because it has not been able to charge concessionaires with actually regulating the record and register of both users and small combustion plants. Do we have clear and accurate records today? Do we have them? We don't have any. We didn't know how to charge these concessionaires. We didn't know because we were bad masters. And today we are saying a lot that everyone will be able to choose their performer, how great and fine it is, free on the market, etc., prices will not rise. Utopia. That's not gonna happen. Those who obtain licences will divide their territory, raise their prices by 20%, there is no way that someone from one coastal region will compete in the Stairs and all will work very well and well. Of course, and we'll pay for it. Not at the price of today. I'm caricing, 20% will be higher. That's how I judge my thumb. In summary, this is the result of this proposal. I agree, however, that even the existing system of provision of chimney services is not the best; it is not entirely good. But with such a proposal as is now on the table, this activity or this area of the chimney service will not improve at all. It won't be better for the user. We're just going to give people a little more work on the administration unit to issue these licenses, hire new inspectors, etc. In short, we will encourage and burden the state budget. That's what this law brings. But I didn't really see if it had any financial implications for the state budget. He's got them. There is. If an increased number of inspectors carry out the task and if the administrative units carry out any new additional work, this is certainly a financial burden for the state budget. That says we're bad masters. The easiest way to solve this is to go into the financial pocket of the state budget. It's the easiest and easiest way to solve things, but not to forget, but to put a little of your writer next to it. That's no way to solve problems. This does not mean that public economic services of State importance are not being addressed. This isn't the right way. Such a proposal to support further consideration, I would say, if it were to be minor corrections to make the basic direction correct, then every thing is so to speak, including legislation, a living thing to be corrected, processed or practice to show certain shortcomings, but in this case, when this basic principle is completely wrong, it is the law that absolutely needs to be withdrawn. It does not have a future perspective or if there is a final realization, it will be a bad law that will not have a good impact on this activity and will also have a bad impact on the state budget. I will not support such a proposal myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat ready after him, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you. Greetings to all present! The Ministry of Environment and Space has again tabled a proposal for a law on chimney services proposing the introduction of a so-called licensing system in the field of chimney services. The current system is based on the award of concessions, and it should be pointed out that such arrangements have been recognised as inappropriate years ago, as it is intended to allow for a monopoly on services in this area. Thus, in 2013 the National Assembly supported the amendment of the legislation and set a deadline for the abolition of chimney activity from the framework of the regulation of economic public services, while offering no more appropriate solution for regulating this area. That is why, at the end of 2015, we have extended the existing regime until the end of this year, and today I believe that the moment has come when we must work together to find the right solutions. Organized fire safety, environmental protection and human health are in the interest of all of us, so it is necessary to ensure that the services of the chimney service are provided consistently and professionally and that they are not freely left to the market. Otherwise, we welcome the proposal of the Ministry, which, by means of the proposal for a chimney service law, introduces a special new concept of regulation in this area, but we are also aware that warnings by the professional public must not be heard in any way and that the remaining substantive issues highlighted by the chimney associations need to be brought into line in the course of the hearing. We hope that, in the course of the consideration of the proposal, we will adopt solutions that will enable the most optimal regulation of this area for the owners of small combustion plants and for the operators of chimney treatment services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you, too. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Ivan Hršak should be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, we can continue yesterday's long debate because we are on a similar issue. To a large extent, I can agree with some who have warned that when we change the system, we need to know what we are doing. And this system was fundamentally changed three years ago, and we feel these consequences today. But we don't know how to get out of trouble. On the one hand, we want to liberalise, on the other hand, we want to regulate everything, and we don't know who else we're going to find. I hope that some of the words the pre-spoken speaker has, indeed, will at least be found by the monopolies who, under these harsh conditions as they are supposed to, are even willing to provide services, because to a large extent everything shows that they will have to do this activity in their own way or find special magical ways. Here I must admit that I absolutely agree with what my colleague Lisec has said in the introduction. Let us see what the goals of marriage are. The purpose of this law is to ensure the best possible quality of air, health protection, fire safety, increased energy efficiency and awareness of users of chimneys. I've never heard any of this before, but it's the purpose of the law. I understand, Minister, that you are quite unhappy hands, that this law on chimney services has passed into your jurisdiction and that you must fight, and I also understand that your mission is primarily about the environment. But, yes, the essential part of it for my taste has always been and will, as far as chimney service is concerned, be safe. And I can't see that. Only awareness, which is otherwise not seen in the law and thus the law helps to raise awareness of users who can freely choose anyone, call him or not. We're not going to get too far with the fines. So I think we need to work very seriously here on the proposal. If we accept it today as suitable for further consideration, I hope that the necessary efforts will be made because much more is needed, much work on this law, which is also very difficult to understand in this sense. What is a fundamental purpose then I do not see in the following. Free choice – okay. And who? Companies or operators and both provide services? Who now? Smokers, guys? Companies must be allowed to carry out this activity and have chimneys. I don't really see this connection, except in this general work. So, indeed, if this law is assessed today as suitable for further consideration, I hope that we will answer all the fundamental and difficult questions that the Legislative and Legal Service will also ask us, if it has not been followed at least by the warnings of the Government's Law Service. We have a lot of work to do here. I'm not saying it can't be saved, but what's been said well, let him say it himself. We also want a good idea, an inviting idea from a faraway philosopher, let us liberalise this area and, on the other hand, let us regulate absolutely in all the elements that apply to economic public services. Even under the requirements set out before us by the European Directive – universality, accessibility, sustainability at a certain level, how we will resolve the relationship between the user and the service provider, regulated prices. We have a lot of work ahead of us and it fully reminds us of the public service. As public services are liberalised, this is a fundamental challenge, which makes me believe that there is still much work to be done on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Mr Ivan Hršak and Mr Ivan Zorčič should be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman. I liked the previous debate of my colleague Horvata. More than before about the wine. But let me start like this. My friend Ranz said chimney smokers bring good luck. As I recall, the chimneys are black, dressed in black, they have a loyster and that chimney-cleaning wire. Those were the ones who brought luck. Today's smokers just control the combustion plants and don't care about the smokestacks. When I asked one of the performers when we were discussing this law or the previous law, she said, "Yes, what do you think I'm going to leave my employee on the roof? What if it falls down?" "As far as I know, the chimney is cleared from above. Not from the bottom up." "Oh, give me a break." And you don't do that anymore. Most of the work is done by those who measure the smoke, the tow measurements do, clean the combustion plant, issue a certificate and bill. That's the kind of experience I have. Who's going to clean the chimney? Firefighters or old owner? We have a lot of older people who live in apartment houses. Who? And there, I'd like to refer to what my colleague Mitja said earlier. The Ministry of the Environment and Space is supposed to be responsible for environmental protection, air protection, smoke gas. So it's supposed to control the combustion plants. Nevertheless, we do have winter mornings when we listen to reports of firefighters, 4.5 fires per night — chimney fires. Who's in charge? The mayor is in charge of shutting down. The mayor's in charge of fire safety. He has a contract with a professional fire department or voluntary fire companies. Is that irrelevant? Is this connected to each other — a combustion plant and smoke fires? It's probably. We should sort this out together in some way. We have a public economic service – the protection of the environment of local importance, this is the separation and cleaning of waste water, because it is necessary to build sewage and cleaning facilities, that is what municipalities should do. We are dealing with wastes that are to be disposed of in the region, and public economic services are also within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. However, we have control of the combustion plants in individual residential houses, and this is a state-owned public economic service, which does not need to be built. Don't even clean the chimneys. Measurements done, charged. We don't even have a good record. And it has nothing to do with fire safety. I think it's very connected. I was a 13-year-old mayor, a colleague, too. Sometimes firefighters used to walk from house to house, inspecting chimneys. In one economy, for example, there could be 3, 4 chimneys. Smokers and fire extinguishers, so to speak. Now comes the chimney to inspect the main thing in the house, writes the bill and goes. If I looked at everything, then the amount would be significantly higher, let alone if I had to clean all the chimneys. In my opinion, it would be the best option for this to go back to the local level, to introduce the licensing system by checking the competence of each individual, because every chimney can't be squandered on very complicated combustion plants, only the repairman in my opinion can answer or make accommodations, because we don't have just the hens on solid fuels like they used to be, the bread stove and the stove in the wood kitchen. And they should be linked to the records that the congregation would have. Since the municipality is in charge of fire safety, it should also be in charge of the State for the record and at the same time ensure fire safety. If someone had not been examined by fire extinguishers and chimneys, he should have paid if the chimney, fire extinguishers themselves, or could not have been protected from the fire of the house, or if the house had been burned. Order should be made. It is true that the mayors reject this because it is a special task for which the state does not provide any funds, it should have records, but in small rural municipalities, where there are the most such fires, it would be order. I'm sure if Maria Teresa were still here, this order would be. Now he's gone. And in this way, as we now deal with this law, this order will not work, nor will it. The mayors, I know, they don't want that. The country took over because certain lobbyists saw good profits with little work and even less responsibility. I have the feeling that today's review of these combustion and smoke plants is like those who have walked with distilled water chickens to vaccinate on the ground. So much for something to be done, and it's cashed out, and we're out of here. Do you have any record of how many chimney fires there were where the chimney was recently inspected and the master paid for the service? Why did it burn if the chimney was clean and the combustion plant was flawless? Did someone pour gas in there to make it burn or something? Did anyone answer? Has anyone called anyone to account? How much damage is there from these fires every year after Slovenia? I'm not saying that there's also something going on here that's dying of carbon monoxide. Is he responsible then? It is possible that if someone claims and sues in a few instances that there may be some kind of responsibility in the end, but I have not heard it yet, it is quite after Slovenia every year. Let's get on with it once and for all. What the congregations can do better than the state, let us charge the congregations. If money is needed for this, it is probably not a huge resource for the state to provide money, but it will be known who is responsible for who has the record of everything. Believe me, when I was mayor, and these chimneys were walking around the houses, and then the citizens called me when they called me, and what this guy was doing to me, because he has no idea, and I have such a burning device, and then it was smoking when he left, and then I had to call the repairman back and tell him that he was texting. I said it's not ours, it's national. Yeah, well, who am I gonna call if not the mayor? Who? A chimney? Inspector? How many are there that cover Slovenia? If it were under the jurisdiction of the municipality, fire safety – the mayor – is known. It is a record, it is not, and the congregation is responsible. And then, believe me, in small congregations where people know each other, they'd only do the best. Not someone who is sent from one end of Slovenia to the other end of Slovenia to do something. I am afraid that we have not gone to the right end again and in the right way that we will accept something, with licences is probably different than with concessions that have been granted for 8 years. Even though someone was so bad, you couldn't break the contract because it was hard to prove that he was doing the wrong thing. And if someone terminates his contract, he can sue for damages. Who? Country. Because the state has granted. However, if the mayor were to grant a concession for a few years, such as for the transport of children to school for two or three years, he would have proved himself and would have made an effort, since he would probably no longer work in that congregation and probably in some neighboring congregations if he did not carry out his activities in a good way. But if he has any uncles in Ljubljana who grant him a concession, you don't have to look at how quality you'll be doing, because no one can take that away from you, even if you still have an eight-year contract like it has been. Madam Minister, I think it would be only good to have representatives of the municipalities invited here as well, to explain to them what the European Directives say, and that there are also responsibilities and responsibilities between the state and the municipalities. If the congregations do not like to do so, they need to be convinced in some way that they can do so better. In my opinion, at least in the countryside, it could be significantly better than the country. I am not saying that in Ljubljana and in the larger cities, there is probably no such difference because they are municipalities, they are blocks with multiple apartments. It is also likely that in these larger congregations it would be more appropriate to be governed by the congregations. For the Ministry, responsibility vis-à-vis the European directives, and you, too, get rid of this responsibility that someone else is carrying out. I don't think it's necessary to have inspectors either, since the municipality already has, in general, a municipal inspection or an interstate inspectorate that can only control this record and resolve any complaints from individual individuals about this service. It would be very quick for me to do it. Even in smaller municipalities where there are most of these chimney fires. Firefighters, too, if the municipality devotes so much to each company every year, and it is a contract between one and the other, already checking the hydrants, and fire safety the firefighters, along with the plumber, should also have chimneys. As far as I know firefighters, their drive and quality, I think we'd be happy to do the same. And the responsibility they are aware of is probably more than any government official is aware of. That's my suggestion. Since we are at the beginning of the consideration of this law, I think everything is still possible to stop, correct or otherwise engage. Or let the congregations suggest what they think is the best solution, since they are much closer to the users of these services than to the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u157	Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, President. In the position of our Group of Members, I have already stated all those advantages of one and the other. This is a real view by the users and a view by the concessionaires. In view of this proposal prepared by the Ministry, I would say that this is the best-prepared proposal. Why? Because both concessionaires and users are dissatisfied with it. That is to say, if both of them are dissatisfied, it means that the proposal does not go either in the direction of one, not in the direction of the other, but in the direction that they consider the Ministry to be the best. Someone mentioned a transitional period earlier. The transitional period for this amendment from licence concessions is already extended from 2013. That these changes will introduce licences with 1. 1. 2016, announced by the then Minister for Agriculture, where the environment also belonged, mag. Thirsty. He said: "From 1 January 2016 onwards, the system of carrying out chimney activity will have to be set up in such a way as to enable every citizen of the chimney to choose for himself." As of 1 January 2016, the concessions for the performance of the chimney activity, according to the words of the Minister of the Jews, were therefore to fall definitively. In the meantime, another minister, who continues this work, came forward. And then he went on: "This is not the last thing the European Union asks of us, because the EU's character is not only free movement of people and goods, but also free movement of services." In fact, we were not able to meet this deadline because last year the coalition was not unified and we extended this transitional period to 2016, from 1. 1. 2017, of course, with corrections that I believe will through the amendments, that we will adopt this law and then apply it. I would focus on a few more points on concession, the weakness of concessions. We've heard that before. Whoever was the concessionaire had a concession signed for so many years and it was virtually impossible to take it away. In fact, the user could not do anything, although with this concessionaire, the contractor was totally dissatisfied, and this about the price, in terms of bad work, perhaps a poor operator’s relationship to the user. In short, there was nothing you could do to help. And in this I see the advantage of this system that the user will be able to choose the chimney itself. The fact that it's a floscule, that he won't actually be able to choose anything, of course, is not true. The concessionaires who provided these services in Slovenia were now appointed. Concessionaires had a certain number of employees of chimneys. But not all chimneys that exist in Slovenia, which are qualified to provide these services, were employed by these concessionaires. They simply couldn't do their job. Now they will be able to perform this work through a licence they will obtain from the Ministry of Environment and Space. This means that in a given area there can be such a chimney service or several chimneys of espionage that will have these licences, and in the meantime they are trained, that is to say by the ILO authorised operators, then users will be able to choose. Of course, operators will then be able to compete if they provide these services at a lower price because the maximum price is fixed, which is good. In short, it's a big plus for these users so they can choose here. Second thing. The concessionaire, we said, could not have been removed, but it was still so wrong, but now the user will choose one smoker service provider and if he is not satisfied with it, he will be able to terminate this contractual obligation and will hire another and agree to implement with another contractor. It'll be simple. It was then mentioned a little earlier, because the free movement of goods and services in the European Union is a fear that these operators will come from the countries of the European Union and they will provide all these services and our chimneys will be out of work. First, this falls into the water if these performers do well to be satisfied with their services. Secondly, even if they're cost-effective. Thirdly, that operators from one European country will come to Slovenia, which is an extremely small market, and also, according to the social standard, we are at a lower level, according to other countries, and that they can actually do all of this here and that domestic users will just decide for them, of course, also from the vine, and I believe that this will not be a problem. It is possible, however, that some workers, smokers from other European countries may be employed by an operator, but through supervision, these operators will really meet all the conditions and will also be qualified. And this will be a refresher of knowledge, which will be periodic. Here there are many comments in other areas, if any renewal of knowledge is needed, it also brings some costs, but through this renewal, these tests also see who is actually qualified to provide certain services and who is not. And that's an important factor for me. And then there's the records. Now it has also been pointed out that these records are poor or incomplete. In fact, this is true to some extent, but this is due to poor work or failure to respect the obligations of concessionaires. This is said to be true, the concessionaires have not entered the data into the records and therefore all these data have not been updated, which I believe will be positively resolved by the supervision that will take care of these records of the administrative unit. In short, if some have so praised the concessionaires, this system of concessions, it has been seen that the concessionaires have not fully accepted their responsibilities here because they have not fully done their work. But I've already said that about the price. Now users have also been dissatisfied with these prices, and they have been unable to do virtually nothing to help themselves. Now the Ministry has established a maximum price through this law at which they will not be able to go, and the possibility is that even these prices will be lower. Once the competition in a given area is greater, some will be able to offer lower prices and thus users will be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u159	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare the mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u160	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! In front of us is a matter that we have been dealing with for practically more than a year. A good year ago, as President of the Infrastructure Committee, I also called for a public presentation of opinions on the subject of smoking. The reason for this was, in fact, the existing state of law resulting from the amendment of the 2013 Environmental Protection Act, by which the chimney service was abolished as a compulsory public service. Why do I keep saying that? That was already said today. Because it is obvious to the Minister or the Ministry why you are amending the legislation at all, why you are abolishing this concept. This occurs both between Members and the public concerned. I've also received a lot of letters, a lot of mail, we've done a lot of interviews, and even in, let's say, the very professional public is repeating the evidence that we're changing the concept of this law, which is not true. The concept, as has been or has been in force until the end of this year, has been amended by the Environmental Protection Act. There are speculations whether the chimney service should be a compulsory economic service or not. In this part, I have the very thought that, given that the Environmental Protection Act, which abolished smoking as a compulsory economic public service, has never been in any constitutional opinion or also in this new law, it has never been in any constitutional judgment that it is unconstitutional because it eliminates smoking as a compulsory economic public service. So we are ahead of the situation in this mandate because the system so far has been shut down, that something has to be done or left to the market system, it is said that everyone orders this service as if they would go for a loaf of bread to the store or order ceramic services for example. The Ministry may have decided, after some professional analysis, not to leave the matter to a market system, to a system of demand, supply, but to regulate the matter in the light of some public interest which has been detected and which we are likely all aware of. My friend Lisec mentioned earlier, and I think it was that we actually have a system now that there is not even a compulsory economic public service, but on the other hand it is regulated and that it is not in fact anything like that. I don't agree with that. Today we had the Law on Lawyers, a profession which is on the one hand subject to a free economic initiative and, on the other hand, regulated. It is also regulated at service prices. I recall the challenge of this lawyer's tariff by the Bar, and the Constitutional Court said no, which can be regulated because it is a matter of some public interest. And it is in this sense that I also see this proposal for a law that is actually going to a similar solution. It is in some public interest that these prices of services, which are in some way mandatory, are regulated. I don't see any particular controversy in this. Let us wait for the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, perhaps even once before the Constitutional Court, but I might point to another matter here. We currently have a law on funeral activity in the procedure and a law on health care in the debate. I note that there are more and more laws where the work of the interested public is claimed, yes, and this is in the public interest, which must either be a concession or a state must have, may even be a state-owned company. I basically didn't agree to any of these forms, except where it's really necessary because of some bad experience. I think that if we regulate everything and subject everything to some strict state control, we come into a system that we've actually left. I also disagree with some of the views that this is some kind of neoliberalism. It is a free economic initiative. If he wants to be a chimney man, say, Jože Novak, I think it's right that we don't limit him by saying, "If you can't be, you can't be, the concession is granted in this area, but giving him this opportunity." We have talked a lot about the employment of young people in the bar before, when, I don't know, because of the height of that entry, we won't be able to hire young people, we won't have young lawyers, we won't have competition. It's the same thing here. Even if we have concession areas, there will be no competition. And I don't mind the concession areas, but some of the previous National Assembly has put an end to it. And like I said, now the ministry either doesn't do anything or steals a system that represents an alternative to the one that was shut down. As I mentioned, the previous system was terminated by the Environmental Protection Act, ZVO-1F. I went to look at the magnetograms and in these magnetograms I found that the debate was actually very modest. That's too bad. But from some discussions it was clear that the amendment with which the system was then abolished was intended to enter the market system. I also found a discussion by my colleague Lisco, who is, in fact, somewhat contrary to what he claims today. Otherwise, the view of SDS is not even clear whether you are more concerned with going to some system where municipalities would manage whether you are in favour of a completely market system, or are you in favour of a concession system. You haven't made that clear. If I sum up my colleague Lisco, this is how he discussed yesterday, 'Minister of Promise', I think it was Minister of the Jews, 'that today they will prepare a proposal for amendments that will follow the gradual transition to the chimney system. For the STA, the Minister said that a political agreement would be reached to amend the Environmental Protection Act, which would introduce a market system in the area of chimneys, but none of which. By means of today's law or this amendment, you only extend the existing state to 31. 12. 2015." In short, it is a debate that has somehow criticised the fact that it has not yet been made available to the market system, so that you would then understand that you are in favour of the market system or that you are in favour of the market system. The proposal that we have, I will not take it all, I think that my colleagues have done it well enough, somehow it is establishing a system or a system that is a hybrid between market and regulated. As I mentioned earlier, it's like a lawyer. I wish, given that today's first consideration is that we will also talk about this law at a working body meeting if it is confirmed that in this context, as set out, we will get as many proposals as possible, concrete proposals from the amendments. We have heard a lot of criticism, when the law is unconstitutional, the law is completely wrong, but few concrete proposals have come to me, which they said is wrong in this article, in this chapter this. In short, I hope that this law will be adopted by a majority today for further consideration so that the next comments that will come will be more concrete, and I hope that we can also take them into account with a view to improving the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u161	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, then comes the final part.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! At the outset, I must say that this subject is particularly heartwarming to me, because my education is such that I have done a great deal with it, as well as the later career path was mostly related to combustion, especially internal combustion in motor vehicles, which, as far as the basics are concerned, are the reasons why we are even discussing it today. These are physico-chemical processes in combustion plants, after domestic furnaces, for various fuels. Taking care of what is happening there is not only a matter of technicians and engineers, but, as has already been the case in the current system, and as has been the case with the new proposal, many others who are concerned that everything in this regard is as it should be, in particular as the law speaks, about the protection of the environment, the efficient use of energy, which is also connected, the protection of human health and the protection against fire. Therefore, we need a good comprehensive and effective system regime, a system law that will ensure all of this. Now I must say that I was also from my own experience as a smoker user and therefore the owner of one of the combustion plants in the past is faced with wanting to replace the one who provides the chimney service. This was many years ago when this concession system was barely in place. I quickly realized that that was not possible at the time. With this chimney company, this chimney had to live in some way, sometimes better, sometimes worse. I must say, after all these years, this system that we are living now has also come into existence. Therefore, the results of some surveys that discuss satisfaction with this system are understandable. On the other hand, the criticisms of those who point out that things are not all the same. Here I would not touch on these deplorable cases, among them some very tragic ones, which are due to the mistreatment of combustion plants and not in my personal opinion so much to the very bad system arrangements we have so far. But it is always a question of how to prevent these cases in the future. Therefore, first of all, if I consider possible improvements to this law, my first question is about control. The proposer also notes that monitoring is one of the most important factors in the proposed system. He's predicting new jobs. He's talking about reorganising the operation of inspection services. What's open about this is, if we compare the old and the new system, the fact that the health inspectorate is no longer involved. In one article, while speaking in one paragraph, we are talking about the fact that an inspector can prevent the use of combustion plants from being used if we attach to this a direct threat to the health and life of people who usually occur after the chimney has left the premises, the fundamental question is, of course, how to effectively prevent poisoning or, God forbid, death associated with it. The further point I would like to draw attention to is that a transition between the old and the new system is necessary, regardless of the fact that the applicant says that the obligations of chimney smokers and chimney companies providing chimney services in a broader sense do not differ significantly from the existing regime. However, it would be right to write down to this extent that, both for users and for those who will do so, the law would not present any particular stress, if I say so, especially in the case of companies of some very large administrative matters, a burden. Here I refer to what my colleague Ljubo Žnidar said if we do [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u163	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government, who is the proposer. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr President Milan Brglez, also thank you, honourable Members, for the constructive debate. It is true that much has already been said about the history of this existing regulation in the debate itself. Perhaps I would like to discuss further what this responsibility is under the current system and, if adopted, the law is the largest under the new system. It is now practically the responsibility of the concessionaires, who were not the owners of these devices, who were responsible for an area. We are now moving on to the fact that each owner will be responsible for his own device to be inspected. However, the licensed chimney is responsible for ensuring the appropriateness of the inspection and functionality of this device. This is where I think this major shift is. If I say it a little more plastic. We have cases where the concessionaire has omitted some of the owners of the combustion plants for such or other reasons, so he has not been subject to review. In fact, the current system of these owners could not be penalised unless the concessionaire had declared them and requested that their combustion plant be inspected. Well, now this will be different, now the owner answers that his device has been inspected and then in the inspection procedure it takes place in terms of the execution of this work. It is true that after the current system in Slovenia there are two environmental inspectors covering the chimney area, so let's say that control will be worse than it is now, but if there are ten inspectors, I practically cannot accept it. It's really hard to think that about eight inspectors will do less than two. It is true, however, that we have entered 361,000 entries into the EviDim records in the procedures since the drafting of the regulations, that is, to be honest with you, from last spring until last week. The approximate rating of all small combustion plants in Slovenia, we are now talking only about small combustion plants, the approximate rating of small combustion plants in Slovenia is 412 thousand, not correct. That's a grade. That's not accurate information. That way, we're going somewhere over 80% of all the entries. It is true that if the law is passed, this record of EviDima will be upgraded a little bit more, but it is now possible to look for those owners who, in a certain year, do not allow the devices to be inspected. If we proceed with the law, we will also adjust this record in a way that the record itself will report cases where the review will not be carried out. True, the reasons why it is not done may be different. Among other things, the combustion plant may no longer be in the facility, which the owner will be able to arrange and even delete from the records such a combustion plant. If I compare this extension of concessions now, if I compare only the problems that are in our ministry, I will not explain them in detail, but I assure you that, then, the document is a copy of an administrative fee, which will now be issued after the new year or, if the law is adopted, September, then by the new year the chimney companies and chimney smokers will report for this licence, the cost of chimney smoker 28.12 euros. This means that this document is valid to him until, for specific reasons, this licence has been revoked. So it's a one-off cost, and it covers practically the cost of making a license. We ourselves estimate that this is a much lower cost than the potential tendering procedures and the selection of concessionaires for a new one. The discussion also mentioned that we should work together with the congregations. I admit there's been quite a few conversations like this, not just this one. We also know that we are doing building legislation and as part of these discussions, what the municipalities might be willing to do, there is no wish that anything I confess to myself now would be much more operational than our inspectors would, of course, because the countryside is in an inappropriately different position than urban centres, but the municipalities do not agree to it. A few years from now, however, the mayors may find that this may be an additional contribution to a cleaner and safer environment in a congregation. In this part, we imagine that smokers who are already providing rural services and who are already much more friendly to their owners than in urban settings will continue to work under the amended rules. It is true that the maximum price will be set, which means that a possible price reduction is permissible, that 25 kilometers, that is the distance provided in this price, is the same as now. These concession areas were also such that none of the tenants were within the concession area more than 25 kilometres away from the center. Now it will be easier, for this free choice will also allow someone who can be 27 kilometers away to forget those two miles and not charge them. But it's a legal duty for someone to call him. This is mainly because we do not want to excuse ourselves in the search for guilt as to whether someone is in debt or not. It is true, however, that the desire to have an inspection of a combustion plant from Kopra in Murska Sobota, at least in my opinion, is not real and there is no need. But it is true that in urban environments there is a great deal of this remote heating, which means that there are no inspections of combustion plants there. However, many times the owners refused the review and then a number of procedures were carried out through the courts to allow the concessionaire to approach the combustion plant. We kind of want to, because it's the obligation of the owner to call the chimney guy with a license to trust him. I would, however, only mention the operators here, that they are not any conditions that are not already in force today. It is more about obtaining this document and entering the records in the administrative unit. In the debate itself, at least this is how it feels, some have discussed topics that are actually exempt from the law. They were in some stage of the preparation of the marriage, and now they are gone. By recommending that those preparers take a little look at this newly prepared law, that there be no more of these, and then, in further procedures, let us make it a little clearer whether we want these requirements or whether these interests to be represented in the law or not. I am aware that there is still much work to be done in the drafting of the law, and we are pleased with any encouragement or comments that will contribute to the preparation of a better record of the law for the provision of chimney services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u165	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. Yeah. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please also apply by pressing the microphone key. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes at their disposal. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u166	Thank you, President, for your word. I was also a little challenged. Yes, my opinion is that the current proposal, which is supposed to be market-oriented, is a theory. In practice, however, there will be an opposite effect. Not only because of what is written in the theoretical work, but because of what is happening in practice in the proposal of law and by law. However, I do not boast that, unlike probably my colleague Kavčič, I am an expert in this area, but I do have quite a few contacts with various chimney companies, chimney smokers, if you like, as well as with civil initiatives. And everyone's telling me that there's going to be some ground for three, four, five dedicated chimney companies that are going to be even more monopolized by this system of monopolies that we have with these concessions. And it is you, both civil initiatives and certain smokers, who say that the problem is precisely what I wanted to point out earlier, the link between a certain part of the office and certain chimneys. I agree with the substantive debate today, and I think we all want the changes to be introduced. But if we're going to change, I think they're expected to be for the better, not for the worse. So at least for those who want a more marketable system, but if we look at the inside of the articles that we will also give to in the SDS Amendments Group, we see that there are a few moments that suggest that we will in practice come up with even more monopolistic ideas from this theory of law and by law, which are pursued by certain smokers. I say, my idol is a German model. I believe that, despite the fact that they have a federal state and smaller provincial units there, we can also introduce this model. I continue to argue that before this law is enforced, and especially when officials come to them with a regulation, a regulation, a regulation, a license and everything else, as stated in the transitional provisions, both the government and the ministry must do to make this system, which we are adopting in theory, in practice worse than it is today. And we have a problem – smaller bidders, they won't respect them. Just look at the conditions for entry. Some today will find it difficult to meet these conditions. Especially because of what is being done in practice to be pushed out of the way by the bigger or the main. We have an eternal debate about what small combustion plants are or whether chimneys are the ones that clean small combustion plants, which is also a story from certain other European countries. We have a price problem. I still argue that this 25km radius doesn't make this chimney service any more liberal, because I don't think John Novak from Sevnica is going to call the smoker from Postojna and he's going to hear that it's a top chimney, but he's going to say, "Well, he's better at home." Let's put this Janez Novak in Mursko Sobota, Jesenice, Koper or, I don't know, in Črnomelj – or diametrically opposite to good chimneys. They won't choose others. People are looking at two euros, five euros. And even if it's a top chimney, they won't decide. Then it's problematic "users have to." I agree that it is necessary to give users greater awareness that in fact chimneys are something like good tires in a car. That it's not the last thing you don't think about, but that you have to think about it. But what do users get by this law? Nothing. If I, what I looked at as regards periodicals, visiting chimneys, is a regulation, I think, very similar to the one that is now in force. If I'm wrong, I'll be very happy, but especially if you'll be more in time for users than we were 20 years ago in the field of these things, chimneys and various devices, so that this period will stretch here too, without people wondering why four times a year comes, why twice a year comes, why [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u167	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you, President. Currently, Slovenia is divided into 194 concession areas. Maybe I don't get it right, but there are so many different performers. We are in the process of extending licences for some. Some will run out of licenses at the end of the year. Your fear that some or some of you would have an advantage, simply put, is that I don't understand. In view of the fact that I come from the countryside alone, I am convinced that in the environments where these concessionaires have already performed not only cleaning, but also the review of chimneys, this relationship is adjusted. Where it is corrected, these existing chimneys will, of course, continue to work with great advantage. It is true, however, that in the case of the checks themselves, i.e. in terms of screening, ensuring discharges below the limit, i.e. air protection, our requirements to do so every year in the case of combustion plants of an older date, while for new combustion plants with different technology, better technology, as in the case of technical inspections for passenger vehicles, we have some discounts. Today may not even be the time to discuss this in more detail. But I think this is very important for the owners of the combustion plants. Thus, at the very installation of such devices, they will be aware of when and when their device should be inspected. In further work, we may need to say more things in terms of better and easier understanding, because I am sure that for most of the owners of the combustion plants, this system will not actually bring about major changes. But for some owners, especially those who have already had problems. It is true, however, that in our discussions with some concessionaires, then also with the chamber and with these NGOs, we have tried to draw closer to each other in this good year, almost a year and several months, but unfortunately we have not been able to convince any of them to listen to these arguments and bring this story to a certain end. If we can do this anyway, I'll be pretty happy. However, I am sure that the owners of the combustion plants will also be pleased. In fact, where burning on wood biomass is the cleaning of chimneys is an integral part of the inspection of small combustion plants. For other combustion plants, cleaning is much less. However, it is important, as has already been said today, and I repeat it all the time, I am sure that many of us think that health care is very important, that it is not due to inadequately built combustion plants cases of death or disease, which has already happened in the past, and let us hope that this will be as little as possible. Then fire safety is extremely important. More in the past than today, but it is also very important today. For the environment ministry, however, air quality is also very important, which is largely contaminated by emissions from small combustion plants during the winter period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u169	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, which is in half an hour. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 20th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4 p.m. and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-16-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u170	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017 by means of an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Aviation Act by an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyerial Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 15. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 1a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to that Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to the first article has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 1a becomes irrelevant. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and to the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 49, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on the implementation of international programmes in the field of education and education under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. There were 48 votes in favour, but there was no one against it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on chimney services. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Smoker Services Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 and 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development, within the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 14. 6. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second amendment to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there would be no amendments to the draft law at that meeting. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly in the second reading of the proposal for a law have not been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 66 Members and Members were present and 47 were voted against and 3 were present. [[There were 47 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I inform the members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs that a meeting of the Committee will begin in 15 minutes in a large salon. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
