ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Irena Kotnik, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Jelka Godec, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Mr. Ivan Prelog until 15:00, Mr. Matjaž Germany from 12 noon onwards, Mr. Janez Janša, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 11 to 13:00, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr. László Göncz and Mr. Bojan Podkrášek. I inform you that due to the problems with the microphone units, today we had to transfer Mr Simon Zajc, Mrs Vojko Šergan, Mr Igor Zorčič and Mrs Marušo Škopac to the second seat. Thank you all for understanding. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on the deposit guarantee system by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Irena Sodin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law transposes the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes into the national legal order. The fundamental objective of the deposit guarantee system is to protect investors and to preserve their confidence in the banking system and thus maintain financial stability. The deposit guarantee system does not, however, come into being in a new way with the proposed law, as the system currently in place is regulated by the law governing banking. Some of the solutions so far have also been transferred to the proposal for a new regime. In addition to the transposition of the directive, the proposed law aims to further strengthen investor confidence in the banking deposit guarantee system and thus in the banking system as a whole. Let me briefly present the essential solutions to the bill. The law establishes a single deposit guarantee system. Membership in this system is compulsory for all banks established in the Republic of Slovenia and under certain conditions for third country banks. The amount of coverage of the guaranteed application does not change compared to the regulation so far, and it amounts to EUR 100,000. The proposal also provides that certain applications, such as those resulting from the purchase or sale of residential property or social, health or life insurance payments, may be paid in excess of EUR 100,000 under certain conditions. The bill pays great attention to regular and timely information to investors. In addition to the publication of the general information on the deposit guarantee system, the bank must send at least once a year to each investor a copy of the applicant's application to the bank, including information on whether the individual application is eligible for the guarantee. Gradually, the shorter deadline for payment of the coverage of guaranteed deposits will initially be up to 20 working days from the date on which the applications become unavailable, but the deadline will be reduced to a maximum of 7 working days by 2024. Furthermore, the proposal explicitly defines the Bank of Slovenia as the manager of the deposit guarantee system and the tasks to be performed in this role. In particular, it is the management of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the collection of bank contributions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the conclusion of arrangements in other forms of funding of the Fund in the event of insufficient funds. An important novelty of the law is also the deposit guarantee fund established by Banka Slovenije as a separate asset. The funds will primarily be earmarked for the payment of the coverage of guaranteed deposits in the event of the bank's collapse. The minimum target level of the fund is set at 0.8% of the total of all guaranteed deposits in banks in the Republic of Slovenia and must be reached by 2024 at the latest and the actual target level of the fund will be determined by the Bank of Slovenia under the law. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made several comments to the proposal for a law which constitutes an improvement of the legal text in the sense of unifying terminology and clarifying certain inconsistencies and uncertainties and which are taken into account in the final text of the law. Finally, let me mention that the European Commission of Slovenia has already sent a reasoned opinion on the non-notification of the rules for the transposition of this Directive and invited it to take appropriate measures. It is therefore necessary to adopt the law as soon as possible, since the European Commission may decide to bring proceedings against the Republic of Slovenia before the Court of Justice of the European Union and to require the imposition of a fine if it finds that it has not yet fulfilled its obligations. In view of the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 50th emergency meeting, on 9. 3. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on a guarantee scheme for applications submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to each article and by the SDS Group to one article of the bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Legal and Legal Services and Banka Slovenije attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said that the draft law transposes the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive with the aim of protecting investors and maintaining their trust in the banking system and thus maintaining financial stability. It would briefly describe the current deposit guarantee system under the Banking Act and the essential solutions provided by the proposal for a law establishing a single deposit guarantee system. Membership is compulsory for all banks established in the Republic of Slovenia under certain conditions as well as for third country banks authorised to establish a branch in the Republic of Slovenia. The amount of the margin does not change compared to the arrangements so far. The bill also lays down exceptions when the amounts paid are over EUR 100,000. The bill pays great attention to regular and timely information to investors. Gradually, the deadline for payment of the coverage of guaranteed deposits shall be shorter. The draft law explicitly defines the Bank of Slovenia as the manager of the deposit guarantee system and its tasks in this role. An important novelty is also the Deposit Guarantee Fund established by Banka Slovenije as a separate asset. Furthermore, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the comments made in the opinion of the Service concerned in particular the principles of clarity and certainty. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups were prepared on the basis of these comments and the opinions in the main part follow and resolve the uncertainties. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee supported the draft law and expressed their satisfaction with the solutions proposed. Some were of the opinion that the expected levels of penalties were too low. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee first considered and adopted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 56 of the bill and then voted on the articles together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament have a very nice greeting! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we welcome the final adoption of the Act on the Deposit Guarantee System. On the basis of the implementation of this Act, the establishment and functioning of the Bank of Slovenia Deposit Guarantee Scheme will be regulated in the execution of the functions and powers of the Deposit Guarantee Authority and the supervision of compliance with the Deposit Guarantee Scheme obligations. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia and the Deposit Guarantee Authority will establish and manage a deposit guarantee system providing a guarantee for investor deposits in the event of non-availability of deposits with the bank by paying the payment of the covered deposits to investors or by other measures to maintain investor access to guaranteed deposits in the event of the resolution or forcible termination of the bank. The law changes the current system of ex post funding of guaranteed deposits to pre-financing of guaranteed deposits of at least 0.8% of the total of all guaranteed deposits, i.e. around EUR 125 million. These funds will be provided by the banks themselves and the state budget will not finance this deposit system. If necessary, the Republic of Slovenia will provide a liquidity loan of around EUR 700 million. Of course, it should be stressed that the law retains coverage for guaranteed deposits of up to EUR 100,000. In certain cases, even above this amount is the case when buying or selling residential property, including a subsidy belonging to a young family for the first resolution of the housing issue under the law governing the national housing savings scheme. The law also reduces the deadlines for the payment of the guaranteed application by gradually reducing the payment deadline from twenty to seven days and the related requirements for banks to be able to provide IT systems and reporting. The establishment of an appropriate deposit guarantee system and thus the establishment of all the conditions for the effective functioning of a banking union, of which the Republic of Slovenia is also a member, constitutes an important guarantee for the security and security of the banking sector and for the resolution of banks in difficulty, without having to use taxpayers' money and with as little consequences for the real economy as possible. It should certainly be stressed that the proposal for a law further strengthens investor protection and thus strengthens their confidence in the banking system. However, the trust of uneducated investors is very important for maintaining financial stability in the national economy. The deposit guarantee system also has a positive impact on savings and thus on the potential of banks to lend. This effect is particularly important in the case of Slovenia, as Banka Slovenije analyses show that Slovenian banks continue to be in debt abroad and limit lending to non-financial corporations and households as a result of the recent banking crisis, which makes banks more cautious in managing credit risk than in the period prior to the last banking crisis. For this reason, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a law on the deposit guarantee system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u8	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the bill on the deposit guarantee system. In fact, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is transposed here into Slovenian legislation, the establishment of a Deposit Guarantee Fund and the regulation of other matters relating to its functioning. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this proposed law and additions and amendments primarily provide greater protection for investors, in some way ensuring greater stability of the banking system. We regret that the Ministry of Finance and the Government have somehow delayed this law and that, in fact, the European Commission has already warned us that if this law is not adopted in a timely manner, Slovenia can be punished. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the parent labour body that dealt with this law, we proposed an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely Article 56, which deals with fines for bank violations. Unfortunately, our amendment coalition did not accept it, so we have decided in the SDS to re- table the amendment today through the legislative process and, above all, we expect coalition Members and Members to consider adopting this proposed amendment. Article 56 of the SDS proposes to increase fines for bankers in order to remain at the level set out in Article 392 of the Banking Act-1. In the SDS, we are convinced that the increase in fines for bankers is also proposed for reasons of disproportionateity with fines in other areas, particularly in the area of the carrier for the transfer of economic products, the value of work, the tax box and other matters. It is incomprehensible in the SDS that the government and coalition, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats insist on such disproportionate fines and indeed unfair policies. We expect you to consider the proposed amendment. The bill itself, or the law on the deposit guarantee system, primarily protects investors and ensures the stability of the banking system, so we will not oppose the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary with a fellow Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law transposes into the national legal order the Deposit Guarantee Scheme Directive, whose key objective is to protect investors and to preserve their trust in the banking system. This is an important step towards maintaining the stability of the entire financial system, and we will therefore unanimously support the proposal of the Desus Group. We know that for a lack of confidence in the financial system, it can lead to an attack on banks and a massive increase in deposits, which quickly leads to a threat to liquidity and the potential insolvency of not only one bank but all banks in the system. The law establishes a single deposit guarantee system. Membership is compulsory for all banks established in the Republic of Slovenia and under certain conditions for third-country banks which have been authorised to establish a branch in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the law governing banking. The amount of coverage of the guaranteed application does not change compared to the regulation so far, and it amounts to EUR 100,000. The draft law also provides for exceptions. Some deposits, such as those resulting from the purchase or sale of residential property, social, health or life insurance payments, disability payments, may be paid in excess of EUR 100,000 under certain conditions. The deadline for payment of the coverage of guaranteed deposits will gradually be reduced. Following the current regime of the deposit guarantee system, this deadline is 20 working days from the start of the bankruptcy procedure and the deadline will be gradually reduced to a maximum of 7 working days by 2024. An important novelty of the law is the deposit guarantee fund established by Banka Slovenije as a separate asset. In particular, the funds will be allocated to cover the guaranteed deposits in the event of the bank’s collapse. The minimum fund target level is set at 0.8% of the total of all guaranteed deposits in banks and must be reached by 2024 at the latest. By 2024 at the latest, the Fund will have an estimated € 125 million. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed law represents an important guarantee for the security and reliability of the banking sector and for the resolution of banks in difficulty. It follows that there is a desire not to use taxpayers' money to potentially save banks in the future, and to reduce the consequences of bank resolution on the real economy, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will support the proposal for a law on the deposit guarantee system. This is an important transposition of the directive into the Slovenian legal order, as we approach the single bail-in system for depositors, which is also crucial for restoring and maintaining confidence in banks and in the banking system in general, which has been severely shaken during the economic and financial crisis. This law ensures that the role of savers will be secure up to €100,000 for each bank. While it is not negligible that, at the time of the financial and economic crisis, we have already resolved this issue in Slovenia and adopted certain solutions to ensure the safety of the savers, but the current deposit guarantee system provides that the funds for the payment of the guarantee are to be stopped, namely, at the level of the guarantee of EUR 100 000 by the banks included in the guarantee scheme, or temporarily by the Republic of Slovenia, if the banks do not have the means. However, it has not been clearly clarified how and how this is being done, so it is very important that these issues are also resolved by amending this law and also by establishing in Slovenia a guarantee scheme for applications in which the financing of the guarantee scheme will be provided by all banks established in Slovenia, and it is particularly important that the time limit in which the guaranteed deposits will be paid for when the conditions are met is clarified. The key to this implementation is the principle enshrined in this Act in order to establish a specific fund to be filled by banks authorised to operate in the Republic of Slovenia with their contributions. In this way, the principle is published that banks themselves will collectively take care of the payment of deposits. The Fund will supply banks with their contributions according to the instructions and supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. It is important that the Deposit Guarantee Fund also be established as a separate asset with a specific purpose. The law also sets out the ways and dynamics of bank payments. All of this, we believe, is really establishing a banking deposit guarantee system, so that bank savers' roles will be safe. However, it is very important that the savers also be informed directly about what is actually happening to the bank and what is happening to their assets in the bank. So informing investors is also one of the key principles in this law. Of course, it is also important that the time for the payment of applications will be reduced and the deposit will be paid by 2024 in a maximum of seven working days. Of course, we must not miss the exceptions laid down by the law in order to specifically protect bank claims resulting from the purchase or sale of residential property, life, social or health insurance and disability payments. These applications will also be guaranteed under the new system for amounts higher than €100,000. All of these arguments lead us to support this law and we also expect that, even within the deadlines foreseen, all sub-legislative acts will be adopted and that Banka Slovenije will in particular closely monitor the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u14	Madam President, thank you for your word. This law introduces a European Union Directive on national deposit guarantee schemes into the Slovenian legal order. This Directive must not be mixed with the directive presented by the Commission in December last year. The law we are considering today concerns the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia and the directive provides for the establishment of a common guarantee scheme at the level of the European Union, which is part of the banking union, as of December. We completely reject the Banking Union package of Socialists because we know that Germany and other large members have not proposed for humanitarian reasons. The Banking Union has several pillars and all are designed to protect the strength of the German euro. Not only is the problem of overestimated currency, which makes exports difficult, but it is the fact that the differences between the developed and the underdeveloped within the European area are increasing. Any further adaptation of the common policies to the economic situation in Germany exacerbates the causes of these differences and does not lead to any convergence. In principle, in the United Left, we do not oppose the proposed law, since it is mainly formalising the current solutions. The amount of the guarantee remains EUR 100,000, and in some justified cases more. The bank's deposits in bankruptcy are guaranteed first by other commercial banks, but only in the last instance by the State, according to the Republic of Slovenia. The only significant change is that the current system, which has never been activated, was based on ex post payments from commercial banks. If a bank went bankrupt, the funds to pay the deposits would be paid by commercial banks from their liquidity assets. After the new, certain funds will be raised in advance. Commercial banks will contribute the money that the Bank of Slovenia will invest in securities. This contribution is expected to amount to EUR 125 million. This system is being introduced in order to transpose the European Directive. As far as we know, the government has not produced an analysis to show that the ex ante system will be better than the ex post system. At least there's no such analysis in the legislative material we've received. I would point out, however, that Banka Slovenije, which is still, by the way, the Court of Auditors, is still unable to revise, is becoming an ever-increasing financial fund. Last year, the current government set up a bank resolution fund where commercial banks paid 191 million euros. If we add the above-mentioned 125 million euros from the guarantee fund, we will get 314 million euros. And that together is quite a lot of money. Such a fund has both advantages and weaknesses. The advantage is that some funds are available here, which are relatively independent of the developments in the Slovenian economy. On the other hand, these funds are withdrawn from banks which could otherwise invest in the real sector. I cannot help but overlook the fact that the proportion of funds that cannot be used for investments is increasing. This is not only about these two funds, but also about various new capital buffers. All of this reduces the credit weight, which has already shrinked so abnormally that it hampers the development of the economy. Another potential problem is keeping the value of the funds in line. Part of the portfolio will consist of shares which are a rather risky investment. Most will probably be foreign shares, but it is important to be aware that most financial crises are global. So at the moment when a Slovenian bank is most likely to go bankrupt, the value of shares in global markets is the lowest. In times of crisis, it is difficult to achieve a good price not only for shares but also for bonds. Therefore, the real question arises whether ex ante system is really better than ex post system. However, in any case, I can say that the Government as a proposal did not answer the essential question why the ex post system is better than the ex ante system. The answer is that it is better because it is requested by the European Commission, but it is not an answer to support the law, so we will also abstain from the socialists, unless the Government shows in this debate that positive aspects outweigh the negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Irena Sodin, dear colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija, the creation of a deposit guarantee fund is considered meaningful. The establishment of a fund where guaranteed funds are already provided in advance will certainly contribute to the confidence of savers or investors in the banking system. Trust is essential. Trust is most important if we want to prevent multiple-application scenarios, which could have serious consequences for the liquidity and insolvency of banks in the Slovenian banking system. The establishment of the Fund is seen as a welcome contribution to maintaining financial stability. This is also what the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Deposit Guarantee Schemes requires of us. Nevertheless, let us stress our concern that this type of fund to the security of the banking system has only a largely symbolic effect. We should point out that, in the event that the commitment fund does not have sufficient own resources, the missing funds are still provided by the State. As a big flaw in the bill's proposal, we see above all how to manage the deposit guarantee fund with Banka Slovenije. The way in which management is managed is quite rigid and uneconomically. The law does not allow depositors to manage these funds themselves under certain rules and thus avoid payment of the annual remuneration for the management of the Bank of Slovenia. In this way, they could introduce a little more flexibility into the functioning of the system and give banks the opportunity to manage the fund more cost-effectively. In our opinion, the bill also places a little too much emphasis on increasing the fund's resources by nominating the funds themselves. The law should also provide for the possibility of the funds being filled in accordance with Banka Slovenije’s profits. In this way, funds could be significantly increased in line with this, while at the same time ensuring greater credibility of the system. The creation of the deposit guarantee fund is certainly a step in the right direction, but in Nova Slovenije we regret that the proposed law on how to manage the deposit guarantee fund with Banka Slovenije has not been given more discretion and, as has already been said, more cost-effective. In Novi Slovenija, we will abstain from voting on the draft law on the deposit guarantee system.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u18	Madam President, thank you for your floor. As already stated in the opening position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we have tabled an amendment, which we have also proposed on the home committee, but was not voted on by the coalition parties. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an amendment to Article 56, which refers to fines for banks, to increase the fines provided for in this bill. Why are we supposed to get promoted? We propose to be within the same range as those laid down in Article 392 of the Banking Act-1. We are convinced that today the general fines imposed by various Slovenian laws for certain offences or for certain criminal sanctions are disproportionate. In particular, they are disproportionate when compared with fines in the field of transport carriers for forestry products, for work values, for tax warehouses. They would point out that a fine of EUR 3 000 to 25 000 can be imposed on a legal person or independent entrepreneur who does not or fails to keep a record of the guests. For example, when the owner of the Cranian Hotel Vitranc was, for the reason that he entered the names of his four guests into the state record without noises, he was fined 4 000 euros. We have repeatedly pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party this disproportionateity of fines mainly in the emergence of a bank hole and other matters. We know that no one has taken any responsibility or sanctions for their actions today, and we find it unacceptable that such important activities as banking, fines and penalties are being reduced. Dear Members, Members of the coalition parties, the parties of the modern centre, Desus, the Social Democrats, may you reconsider whether, despite all the above arguments that have been put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party both on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as we will and as we have during today's meeting, this amendment, which we have proposed, would not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The amendment tabled by the SDS Group refers to Article 56 of this proposal. If we take a closer look. What this article says is true is that in the event of any infringement, a fine of between EUR 25 000 and EUR 250 000 is provided for in respect of an offence which may be punishable by an individual bank or branch of a foreign bank. The fact is that this is an offence punishable by a legal person, and if we really look at this article in detail, we see that the 13th indent is mentioned. Of these 13 indents, the first 5, 8 is intended primarily for possible infringements of investor information, the further four indents relating to late payment and the remainder of those two indents relating solely to the provision of the relevant information system of the individual bank. When a person simply makes a substantive comparison of the proposal and the explanation of the proposed amendment, he takes the view that this amount in this law is proportionate to possible violators, because the Bank of Slovenia, which is the regulator, but also under this law, the manager of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, we are confident that it will exercise and manage this fund very carefully, as it is also an element of concern, and we will definitely meet again in the debate that one of the key competences of the Bank of Slovenia, under this law, is to determine the contributions of individual banks. This means not only a decision by decision, but also a concern that contributions in the so-called annual contribution will be implemented or transferred to this fund. Therefore, the assessment is that this height is appropriate in this case. It is true, however, that we are convinced that, as a rule, such criminal proceedings in the Slovenian space, at least as regards the payment of contributions, should not be. We therefore estimate that this height is indeed proportionate in some respects. However, according to the custom and practice of this national assembly, I would like to make a few words to the law itself. As already stated in the presentation of the groups of Members in some way, the substance of this law is the transposition of the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. What has already been highlighted is the red thread of this deposit guarantee system. The fact is that the aim of this Directive is to ensure effective investor protection. Many times investors are called uneducated persons, and what is a bad practice for our system in connection with the banking system of past years is to reduce the risk to taxpayers. This directive kind of reminds us that it is an act on which the Banking Union itself is founded and also operates. In one of the presentations, there was also a speech to practically represent the third pillar of the banking union. And it is precisely because of the specificity of this area that this third pillar of the banking union is structured from three elements, which also concerns our Slovenian banking space. The first is the single control mechanism and the single resolution mechanism and the associated funding created through the resolution fund. The second is the deposit guarantee system. And the third is a common security that is generally implemented through a so-called credit line. This Directive is an important force for Slovenia's legal order. However, those features that are important and are also implemented in some way in this law are: uniformly defined guaranteed deposits, and the level or threshold that is now well-known now is EUR 100 000; further reduction of the deadlines for the payment of guaranteed deposits. As we have heard, this is gradually shrinking from twenty to seven days. It is very important to introduce the financing of the guarantee, which is generally a certain level and represents up to 0.8% of all guaranteed deposits in each country. This also applies to the Republic of Slovenia. The latter, which is an important force, is to inform investors uniformly and raise public awareness in order to increase public confidence in the financial and banking system. This means that the existing application guarantee system in the Republic of Slovenia is not in accordance with the provisions of this Directive. It has therefore been decided that the implementation of this Directive constitutes a practically new law. And this marriage is ahead of us. The current deposit guarantee system in the Republic of Slovenia is regulated so that these provisions are defined in the Banking Act. By adopting this law, these provisions are deleted in the applicable banking law. I would just like to make a few more words about the meaning of the guarantee for applications, which is often mentioned in this bill. It is crucial to maintain financial stability, as a lack of confidence in the financial and banking system could lead to a massive increase in deposits, which could directly jeopardise the liquidity and insolvency of the individual bank or even more banks in the system itself. Indirectly, we can also say directly, but the deposit guarantee system has a positive effect on saving itself. Also, if this system is transparent, it contributes to market discipline, as banks act responsibly and there is no so-called moral gambling as is the case for individual financial entities on the market that also attract investors. Of course, these are targeted uneducated persons. Not so far back, there have been quite a few cases in our country where, in some cases, investors have been played. With regard to the new system itself, a few words below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you. From the point of view of the Government, I would like to justify the solutions provided for in Article 56 of the law that we are considering. Why such solutions? Three facts. First time. In the bill we are considering, the number of fines is increasing from the current 7 to 15, due to the fact that some fines have been regulated so far also in sub-legislative acts. Now they're all transferred to the law itself on the deposit guarantee system. Another time. When we compare the fines with the Banking Act adopted last year, it is a matter of unification, since the offences mentioned in this Act are not different from those committed in the Banking Act itself. From the point of view of the Government, it is appropriate that the fines from this point of view are the same. Third fact. So far, the Bank of Slovenia has not found any infringements in the control of compliance with the provisions governing the deposit guarantee system. In all three respects, the solutions provided for in Article 56 of the Law are appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the group of 26 Members and Members, with their first signed magi, is a group of 26 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u24	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act follows the main objective of regulating the scope of the Regression Applications of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute by following the principle of fairness and the principle of proportionality. The bill follows the principle of fairness and the principle of proportionality, as I have already said, as well as the right to personal dignity and security, the inviolability of human physical and mental integrity and the right to a healthy living environment. It also follows the constitutional principle of freedom of economic initiative, which makes it possible for economic operators to operate normally, including small and medium-sized employers. Amendments and amendments to the law propose a solution to the employer's liability when there is injury at work or occupational illness due to non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work. Indemnity of the employer should be acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence, but in cases where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence is not. Indemnity liability of the employer is particularly problematic if he is acting as a self-employed individual, as he is responsible for his business obligations also with all his personal property. The proposed solution excludes the employer's responsibility in the event of his ease of negligence. The second solution is the legal limitation of the amount of compensation up to 20 times the lowest pension base, which we estimate as a relative amount. In our parliamentary group today, we hope for a quality debate on this law and for the coalition to listen to our arguments and adopt the solutions we are offering. Of course, they all go to the benefit of individuals, independent entrepreneurs and small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogačar, to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u26	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has received an opinion on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendment of the law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. The law proposes to limit the compensation liability of employers who are independent entrepreneurs to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, in such a way as to ensure that independent entrepreneurs are liable for damage, for purpose or for gross negligence, and not for damage caused by ordinary negligence. The applicants also propose a limitation on liability for compensation in the event of damage caused on purpose or with great negligence, which the Pension and Disability Insurance Office could impose as a regression claim to independent entrepreneurs. It is also proposed to limit the possibility of indemnification due to uninterrupted or insufficiently implemented safety and health measures at work or other measures prescribed or designed for the safety of persons and in the event of a work relationship being concluded without a prescribed medical examination and the provision or transmission of incorrect data. In such cases, employers would only be liable if they would suspend the implementation of the prescribed measures on purpose or out of great negligence, but also in this case only limitedly, as it is also proposed to introduce a maximum amount of compensation. I would like to point out that the proposal does not distinguish between the individual's liability for damage incurred by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the employer's liability for the damage caused by the Institute. Both systems in the law are intertwined both in the introduction of the bill and in the explanation of the article. The distinction is necessary, according to our assessment, as the assumptions of compensation liability differ in both cases, which must also be taken into account in the further regulation. It should be pointed out that the Slovenian legal system requires a higher level of care for persons who are employers than for lay persons or individuals, so that the uncritical equalisation of the liability of individuals and employers, both in terms of the level of guilt and in terms of the limitation of damages, is not appropriate and even less just, which is the aim of the bill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that compensation for uninterrupted or insufficiently implemented safety and health measures at work resulting in injury to the worker is a consequence which can and even must be incurred by the employer who caused damage to the worker. Comparably, with regulation in other countries, the risk that employers will have to pay compensation if injury occurs due to violations of safety and health at work is an important preventive and dissuasive element in ensuring respect for safety and health at work. This is an instrument that seeks, inter alia, to improve the overall level of safety and health at work in a preventive way, and therefore pre-trial leave for violations of safety and health legislation at work, as proposed by this law, according to the Government. In the event of damage caused by the act of the insured person himself, however, the employer’s liability for compensation is always limited, since in such cases the contribution or the liability of the insured person is taken into account in accordance with the general rules of bond law. We must also point out that, irrespective of the applicant's explanations, this bill has financial implications. Remuneration of employers' liability and the proposed liability of the individual to the institution is limited and reinvigorated, resulting in the loss of the income of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office under this Title and the reduction of his or her resources. On the basis of that Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal does not support the law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u28	Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act seeks to regulate the scope of the Regression Applications of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance by following the principle of fairness and the principle of proportionality. It also follows the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative which allows for the normal functioning of economic operators, including small and medium-sized employers. The amendment of the law proposes a solution to the employer's liability when a person or worker is injured at work or a occupational illness due to non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work. In practice, the current regime whereby the employer may request a regression claim for compensation for any negligence has proved to be a great burden for particularly small employers who are faced with unforeseen situations that they cannot affect and cannot even incur their responsibilities in the event of minor negligence in the case of other insurance undertakings. In the proposal for a law, the regression of the employer's compensation institution is acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence, in cases where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence. There was an existing solution in the past. This does not mean that the worker loses the employer’s claim for full compensation, but it does mean that the Pension and Disability Insurance Office requires the employer’s compensation only if the injury at work or occupational illness is caused by the employer’s intent or gross negligence. The law is without prejudice to the worker's right to full compensation and does not affect the amount of benefits the worker receives from work injury or occupational illness insurance, so we will also support the law, which only burdens the employer on the account of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! We have before us a proposal for a law, which was passed by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group in the parliamentary bench, with the first-signed Matthew Tonin. This is another one in a series of popular proposals with which Christian Democrats have recently been trying to raise political points. This time, too, it is a proposal that is very close to just one of the social groups, namely New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are trying to make their wish come true for craftsmen or independent entrepreneurs. With the amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in the chapter relating to the reimbursement of damage caused to the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute from those who caused the occurrence of disability, the need for foreign assistance and the service or death of the insured person, the applicant shall limit the possibility of the application of a pension claim by the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to employers only when the event with the prior consequences has occurred intentionally or due to gross negligence. It would be an exception to or abrogate responsibility for minor negligence. MEPs and Members of the New Slovenia are convinced that the change to the old, previous regime before the ZPIZ-2 follows the principle of fairness and the principle of proportionality, as they also consider this amendment to be necessary for employers to reduce the current maximum amount of compensation in regressive cases from around EUR 38 000 to EUR 15 000 500. They are convinced that high compensation claims can endanger the business of economically weaker and medium-sized employers. The Desus Group notes that our colleagues' proposal is unacceptable. It saddens us to deal with laws that are not sufficiently thought-out and are merely following on a flat-rate basis some interested lobbying, which can cause more damage than benefits. It is clear that the proposed amendments are contrary to the rules of employers' compensation, the rules of protection and health at work and the obligations imposed on employers by labour law. The format of the blame under the applicable Pension and Disability Insurance Act follows the general bond rules, the rules of labour law and the rules on safety and health at work. Above all, we cannot go beyond the rule that more care is required for those who are active and are employers than for lay persons or individuals. Therefore, uncriminal equivalence between the liability of individuals and employers in terms of both the form of guilt and the limitation of reparation is not appropriate and even less just. The applicants state that the proposal for a law has no financial implications. Of course it doesn't. Since employers' liability and compensation are limited and tightened, as well as the individual's liability to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, there is a consequent loss of the institution's income under this heading and a reduction in its resources. Of course, more co-financing of the rights to be paid to the third party for the operation of the third party or for the suspension of the implementation of the safety and health measures at work by all solidarity insurers and higher financing of the pension fund from the budget is necessary, since the State is therefore obliged to cover the difference between the income and expenditure of the institution. The proposal of New Slovenia also destroys the preventive role of the system of safety and health at work, since this is a preventive role in preventing employers from being deterred by the threat of compensation for violations of safety and health rules at work. In the Desus Group, there is only one point – that the solution proposed is to protect employers economically. It is probably not enough to remind me that it is already the starting point of the worker relationship: the employer should be taken into account that the worker is a weaker customer. Finally, the question arises whether it is really appropriate for all infringements of labour rights, which even escalate into violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms, which we have witnessed virtually daily, in order to now give in to employers. The Desus Group disagrees with the draft law tabled by its fellow Members from New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good day to you all, good day! Today, we are dealing with another of the substantively identical laws that touch on regressive claims. Like the first in the Group of Members, we will not support this for exactly the same reasons that we have already stated in our position on the proposal for the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. This novelty also seeks to follow the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and unilaterally to regulate the area of compensation claims in a way that limits employers' liability. They shall, through their associations and chambers, seek to amend the rules under which they recover damage on purpose, from gross negligence, or from unimplemented or insufficiently implemented measures for human security. Employers warn that these claims may endanger their business and insist that employers and employees should share responsibility for injuries at work. In view of these content, the other party points out that the compensation paid for the injury suffered by someone else in the event of injuries at work by the employer who has violated or abandoned measures to ensure the safe work of workers, adding that the regressive claims in some way even force employers to take care of the working environment and protect workers from threats. As with the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance has also joined the intensive enforcement and recovery and requires the recovery of the damage caused by the employer, if the insurer's disability, the need for foreign aid and services or death is due to the absence of measures for safety and health at work or other measures prescribed or prescribed for the safety of persons. However, it is a clear fact that more care is required for those who are active and are employers than for lay persons or individuals, and therefore the uncritical equivalence between the responsibilities of individuals and employers, both in terms of the form of guilt and also in terms of the limitation of compensation, is not appropriate. It's even less fair. This is an instrument that seeks, inter alia, to improve the overall level of safety and health at work in a preventive manner. And pre-admission of violations of this legislation is not appropriate. Once again, it is obvious that this is difficult matter, which must be found by all the parties involved in the Economic and Social Council. The possible legislative proposal must be the result of broad consensus reached among all stakeholders and therefore we do not agree on unilateral legislative changes and without agreement. As has already been said, we will vote against the law being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Mr Miha Kordish is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the United Left, we will vote against it. This proposal would reduce the legal obligation for employers to ensure safety and health at work. Our view is that employers' responsibility for the safety and health of workers needs to be increased. We therefore reject this proposal. The only potential benefit of this debate could be the preventive effect on employers. Many employers are not even aware that they are not only criminally responsible for violations and negligence in the field of safety at work, but are also liable for damages. It is only right that we Members remind them of this at times. In our view, the situation in this area should never, by definition, be satisfied. In particular, we cannot be satisfied in Slovenia because the situation is not improving. The last report of the Labour Inspectorate shows that for the last three years, an average of 9 000 509 accidents per year have been reported in Slovenia, of which 439 have been more severe. The number of minor accidents has increased in recent years. In addition, in 2014, there were 23 fatalities, the largest since the outbreak of the crisis in 2009. The balance sheet is therefore negative, according to our assessment. According to the Labour Inspectorate, the basic problem in a low security culture is said to mean that employers' awareness is too low despite all measures. "The Labour Inspectorate therefore notes that the causes of accidents also need to be sought in 2014 mainly at the low level of safety culture of both employers and workers, risk underestimation and, in some cases, the lack of experience of workers." That last thought was a quote. We need to complement this conclusion by the Socialists. The worker is always in a subordinate position and cannot organise the work process. The employer shall also be legally responsible for occupational safety training. It is therefore clear that safety at work will only increase with the active efforts of employers. These measures generate certain costs and spend some working time, so employers avoid them. Therefore, they must be forced to implement the measures, and compensation is one of these. Applicants argue that they do not change standards. Here. Formally, they do not change them, but they reduce the pressure that these standards would not be respected in practice. However, practice shows that these standards are often not respected or respected only formally. A risk assessment shall be made, slides shall be shown to workers or slides of protection at work, and the story shall thus be concluded. This, of course, is not enough and nothing can be achieved without coercion in this area. At this point, I will not repeat the criticism of individual measures because we have already submitted them in the consideration of the proposal for the amendment to the Health Insurance Act. The essence of the compensation liability that the applicant reduces is in raising the awareness of employers and workers that there must be no neglect in security measures. However, the essence of the liability for negligence that the applicant could just remove is that the employer should eliminate those risks that he is not aware of as the organiser of the work process. No appeal shall be granted in a court of law unless the institution proves that the employer has waived the obligation to act. As last mentioned by counterpart Zorman, only 1% of the claims submitted by the institution are granted. In particular, I stress that the responsibility for negligence may have been imposed by the new pension law precisely because, in the event of accidents at work, it is virtually impossible to prove intentional behaviour or intentional abandonment. If the responsibility for negligence could now be eliminated, we would de facto eliminate the liability of compensation in general. In particular, I must warn you that a slight negligence does not mean that it is a minor injury. This term refers only to the cause of the injury and the result may also be more serious injury or even death of the worker. When we put on the scale the possibility that some micro-enterprise may go bankrupt due to a regression claim and the possibility to prevent some serious injury at work by maintaining compensation liability, the decision is clear to us. It is a public interest to protect the worker. And if an entrepreneur fails to set up a company for damages, there will be no real harm. It follows from all this that this law does not solve any real problem of the Slovenian economy. The only real effect of this debate will be to spread the doctrine of small entrepreneurship, which is economically and politically flawed and promoted by the entire political class, including the so-called left. Why isn't that a real problem? In Slovenia there are 184 thousand micro and small enterprises according to the latest data. Last year, the Health Insurance Office established a low of 1.2 million regressive claims of all kinds, not just for employers, so it is likely that a micro or small company will have to pay the compensation virtually equal to nothing. Of all the business risks taken by our companies, this is certainly one of the smallest, and it is not really any real problem. On the other hand, micro and small enterprises are the most difficult to provide for safety at work due to lack of staff and resources. Many of these companies work in transport and construction sectors, where the risk to workers is also objectively high. There are also the worst and most fatal accidents. Unfortunately, the Labour Inspectorate does not keep accurate statistics on what companies are most likely to have accidents, but runs statistics on fatal accidents. In 2014, five workers were killed in large companies, but three in the same collective accident. And then they followed, and I'll quote, "Employers with 10 to 19 employees, employers with up to 4 employees and independent entrepreneurs. In all of these, three workers were fatally injured." End of quote. What I want to say is that the safety of workers in small and micro-enterprises is a serious problem and therefore there can be no talk of any failure to provide compensation. If I give an analogy in the field of environmental and consumer protection, the sale of chlorinated meat is prohibited in Slovenia for all companies, for small businesses, there are no exceptions here for farmers. Some substances are prohibited; they are prohibited for all companies because the damage to human health is greater than the direct benefit of society from such a small business. In the field of safety at work, this public interest is exactly the same. Finally, we need to define the context, which is against this widespread enthusiasm for small businesses, which is one of the main slogans of our political class. It is important to ask what social security these companies provide. First of all, let me remind you that the only category of employees that has multiplied since 2008 are independent entrepreneurs, espouses. The number of employees in Slovenia has decreased by 11% since 2008, while the number of individual entrepreneurs has increased by 20%. The vast majority of espouses that have been established in recent years have nothing to do with entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. These are penitential workers, virtual jobs that our governments have even subsidized in recent years. That is why we already have whole sectors in which virtually no more normal jobs are available. There are also media houses among these industries. A good month ago, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia briefed us on the results of inspection in large media houses, which are devastating. You're losing the results. 900 normal employees already have 600 external employees, who are mostly in a covert employment relationship, even though they are employed through the agency or as espouses. This union has asked the Government and all parliamentary groups to take measures to protect criminal workers. To this end, the Socialists have tabled a new law on labour inspection. But we'll discuss this another time. What I'm trying to say here is this. In fact, a large part of small entrepreneurship hides its chastity and has to be combated, not subsidised, either by money or by lowering operating standards. Since 2008, the category of micro-enterprises that employ fewer than 10 people has increased far from all categories of enterprises. Most of the increase is at the expense of forced espions, as it were said. Among other things, there are increasing numbers of collecting companies set up by wealthy individuals to avoid taxes and employers to play labour rights. In Slovenia, according to the latest data, there are almost 136 thousand micro-enterprises with 0 to 1 employees. There were some over 100,000 people working there, so at least 35,000 of these companies were unemployed. These are the de facto "kaselc of the company", on which the right opposition is now concerned, but this is the truth behind the passwords about small businesses. This is the truth about small entrepreneurship. Therefore, in the United Left, we have no illusions so that micro and small enterprises can solve the social and development problems of Slovenia. Above all, we are aware that the drivers of development are large businesses, precisely the ones which our political class has been deliberately destroying for at least ten years with privatisation and poor governance. The large small sector is typical of underdeveloped economies. In Finland, companies with more than 250 employees employ more than half a million people and companies with less than 10 employees employ only 350 thousand. In Austria, it is similar, 860 thousand in large companies, only 685 thousand in micro-enterprises. The normal healthy ratio is therefore 1.5 : to 1 or at least 1.3 to 1 in favour of large companies. Now let's take a look at the other end of the world. In Greece this ratio is reversed, 1.3 million employees in micro-enterprises and only 296 000 people are employed in large companies. Slovenia is getting closer to Greece through this indicator. In 2014, there were only 155 000 workers in large companies, and in micro, there were already 200 000 workers. And that's not a development. This small sector does not guarantee this development, neither does accumulation, nor does it offer good wages. Taxes and social contributions will always be too high for this small sector. And this small sector, last but not least, is not competitive. According to the 2012 SURS survey, large companies in foreign trade generated 2.6 billion surpluses. Small and medium-sized enterprises have created 3.7 billion deficits. I think these numbers are quite consistent. This is not a development or a growth in underdevelopment. Such a halt to the structure of the economy has not come by chance, but through conscious political decisions taken in Slovenia and at the level of the European Union. The responsibility of the political class for the situation and the consequences for development has been well described by Franček Drenovac, and I will quote: "The Slovenian political party scene is personally completely detached from the large technologically advanced sector. Those persons from the economy who are involved in politics and are supposed to decide on the most complex macroeconomic issues came in transition almost without exception from any dissident, marginal parts of the economy and in the vast majority of the small economy. The deformity of its electoral and human resources base, caused by the deformation of the economic base, is at the back of this policy deformity. The Slovenian company has become in transition a company of small, fragmented, individualised, unintegrated, unsocialised, provincial economies. This economic base is the widest represented and most influential economic and social environment of the population of Slovenia today." End of quote. The economic consequences of this situation are increasing structural unemployment, evicting educated staff, stagnation in investment and development. The ideological consequences of this are manifested in the rise of racism, homophobia and all forms of provincialism. The alternative to this is only one: strengthening the country's development function, stopping all forms of privatisation in all areas and developing policy at country and regional level. In practice, however, this policy can only be implemented by organised workers under pressure from below, and therefore, by the way, a new law on the participation of workers in governance, which we have presented to all the parliamentary groups, must be adopted. Since the United Left is often painted as a client who is not friendly to craftsmen, I have to add the following in the end. The alternative that we advocate is unkind to employers who force workers to open forced espions. It is unfriendly to those who open a "business purse" to avoid taxes and to abuse workers rather than to carry out normal economic activities. But in no way is she unfriendly to small businesses and craftsmen. We Socialists are always ready to support those small businesses that are being choked by multinational monopolies. That is why we are also against transatlantic agreements, such as CETA and TTIP. That is why we have also taken the initiative to lower excise duties for small brewers. If you have not noticed, today in Slovenia there is no more autonomous brewery, there are only branches of multinationals hiding behind domestic brands. That is why we are also against privatisation because it destroys the local supply chains in which craftsmen and small businesses work. It is not a coincidence that Germany, the country with the strongest industrial sector in Europe, has the most developed trade. In our view, these are measures for the development of a small economy, not a reduction in the responsibility for safety at work. Therefore, the proposal that we have before us is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u36	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In our core programme, Christian Democrats advocate the inclusion of European standards in our labour law regarding the provision of working conditions, working hours, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, regulating working conditions that go beyond these standards must take place in a dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or unions. The State must invest more resources in promoting health at work, raising awareness and informing employers and workers, resulting in fewer accidents and consequently fewer costs for the treatment or payment of pension and disability benefits. In Novi Slovenija we support the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance, which we have invested in parliamentary treatment. However, the two key solutions to the novelty are the regulation of the scope of the regressive claims of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, so that the employer is liable only if he violates the rules on safety and health at work on purpose or because of gross negligence when the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence is not. The second proposed solution is the legal limitation of the amount of compensation on a maximum of 20 times the lowest pension base. The application of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office to employers is regulated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2. The regulation is similar to the regulation of the regression claims of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia to employers. We discussed them two days ago and then the New Slovenia proposal, unfortunately, was not adopted. The problem in the area of excessive and unpredictable regression claims has not been the case since yesterday. Craftsmen and small entrepreneurs have been alerting her for years. The fact is that the current legislation and practice is such that a specific employer can have well-ordered internal acts, rules and education of workers in the field of safety and health at work, including workers can be well-educated on all these rules, and this may be due to the failure to comply with the instructions, the non-use of safety equipment or some other work accident and, in the worst case, a small employer, who is generally economically weaker, may face such a high regressive requirement of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office that his existence is compromised. Let us note in particular that in the event of closure of trades or businesses, all, both employers and workers, are lost in work and income. In the case of independent entrepreneurs who respond with all their assets, even their families may be at risk. The second essential reason for supporting the adoption of the law by New Slovenia is the fact that, by limiting regressive claims to a maximum of 20 times the lowest pension base, the basis for the creation of insurance products by commercial insurance companies is regulated. That's not what it's been. Currently, craftsmen and entrepreneurs cannot insure the risk of regressive claims in commercial insurance companies. Members of New Slovenia will therefore, by their votes, support the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance and we also hope to support the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! As with the last amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, today, in the framework of the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we will discuss complaints relating to employer compensation when there is injury at work or occupational illness due to non-compliance with safety and health regulations at work. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance may require compensation for damage caused by disability, physical impairment, the need for foreign assistance and service or the death of an insured person on purpose or because of negligence. The novelty proposes that in this case the employer's liability should be excluded if it is a matter of ease, and that the amount of compensation should be limited up to 20 times the lowest pension base. The current arrangements for pension and disability insurance include both liability for damage caused by gross negligence and general negligence. The format of the fault is determined in accordance with Article 35 of the Bond Code. It requires the injured party to demonstrate that it acted with special care in its handling of the injury. The offence is regulated in accordance with the provisions of the Bond Code and it is assumed that the perpetrator is guilty if it is not proven that the damage occurred without its fault, assuming that the form of the fault is only easier, i.e. ordinary negligence. It should also be pointed out that the employer does not respond when the full liability is on the employee’s side after the applicable scheme, since the pre-condition for the employer’s liability is also a causal link between the illegal conduct or omission and the occurrence of injury. The novel also highlights the special situation of independent entrepreneurs who are responsible for business obligations with all their personal property. In doing so, we must point out that we must not make differences between employers in relation to the legal organisation of the employer's liability. Due to respect for all who choose to pursue an entrepreneurial path, they create added value in our society and opportunities for employees and follow the rules on safety and health at work, we must not and cannot agree to a discourse that will mislead the public that the applicable rules on safety and health at work endanger business operators. The Law on Safety and Health at Work sets minimum standards that all employers must ensure and do not rank standards according to a priority list. All standards are equally important and all employers' duties are at the same time workers' rights regarding ensuring their safety and health at work. Finally, let me point out that expenditure from the pension and disability allowance, which is not covered by the payments, is covered by the State budget. Responsibilities and the proposed limitation on the amount of compensation up so far represent a burden on other insurers. We will not and cannot not support the proposed law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The drafter of mags has the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u40	Maybe there's some explanation for the introduction. I know that you have a lot of responsibilities for Members and that those of you who are not even interested in the details trust your colleagues and do not go into detail. But for the time being, we have a system in Slovenia that is designed that if a worker is injured in a job or with an employer, he will be treated in Slovenian hospitals, and this treatment will cover our Slovenian health department. So far, so clear and good. From here on this health allowance is entitled to claim the refund of this money which has been earmarked for the treatment of this worker from the employer in the event that this employer has not adequately taken care of safety measures at work. We all agree to that. And we don't break these essential relationships. We're just working on the business environment and the whole system a little bit more lively. I reiterate that, in any case, the employer is still responsible and that the employer can pay for these things as well. Of course, everything has to be put in some reasonable place. See, employers today pay 0.53% of wages for injuries and sickness at work. Every year, this health department collects between €70 million and €80 million from employers. That's quite a lot of money. What is the New Slovenia proposal? We propose that it is the intention that the employer is responsible for gross negligence in the protection of work and it is right that the damage also recovers and that we limit the compensation to 20 times the minimum pension base. When a fellow member of the United Left discussed how to reduce coercion. I don't know what kind of world they live in, but in this law we have proposed, it says that the employer is responsible for the treatment of his employee of EUR 15 000 in case of greater negligence. I'm talking about concrete nominal amounts now. Approximately 15,000 euros, 20 times the minimum pension base. The ones you're kiming, multiply 20 times the minimum pension base and you'll get there. Anyone who claims that 15,000 euros is a meaningless or pointless coercion, I don't know where he lives. But I do believe that for every small employer there is a great penalty of 15,000 euros. And so much more to tell you, if you go to read the internal medical records, you'll find that they're setting this limit, I think on a 50-fold minimum pension base. Even if the law does not require them to do so, the insurance company itself has laid a foundation. So if I go gradually now. In this law we have proposed, we are talking about the following. If this is a matter of minor negligence, this treatment is covered by what employers pay to the fund and is collected from €70 to €80 million. But if it's a matter of greater negligence, the employer pays. I am truly shocked at how some of you judge laws according to the motioners and how you act ideologically in these matters. Mr. Tabaković is moving that this is not true. I'll try to be specific. Do we agree that in Austria and Germany, for example, they have relatively appropriate labour legislation and that in Austria and Germany, workers are adequately cared for? If anyone thinks they don't, raise your hands. I don't see any hands because I believe that these are systems that are relatively favourable to workers to take care of them properly. And what do we propose with this law that we have submitted today? To simply implement the standards they have in Austria and Germany. Mrs Jasna Murgel, you have repeatedly stated your disagreement with your gestures, but if you read this law, which we have written, you could read on the ninth page of the explanations that it is practically the same arrangement that they have in Germany and Austria. I would like all those main opponents and protagonists who claim that the matter is now getting worse because of this law of ours, to tell you where the matter is now so poorly regulated in us comparable countries, for which we agree that this area is properly regulated. We do not in any way reduce the standards of protection at work. We do not touch on anything to reduce the rules and standards that they owe to their workers at work. We do not even equalize responsibility, as some have said in their views. It is still an essential responsibility on the employer. Of course, we set some reasonable frameworks. To be specific, citizens will know what amounts we are talking about. The health department has recovered €200,000 from entrepreneurs, especially small ones. This does not represent a significant amount for healthcare or for the country, and for all these small employers, this can mean a significant decline or at least a significant reduction in their activities. If all those who are troubled by this matter were aware that all these people are paying taxes and thus contributing to the state treasury, then perhaps they would think differently about the whole thing. Well, this was a flower from the United Left when he said that this law didn't solve any real problems. I don't know, we're obviously really living in two worlds or two planets. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in all its programming documents points out this, this raises issues, they say they will protest and similar, they have more than 35,000 members, and this poses a fundamental problem for them. A colleague from the United Left says it's not a problem, it doesn't solve it, it's money growing on a tree and we can wrap our necks up to the end for entrepreneurs and small craftsmen. If there's anything else going to come out of that thing, okay, if not, I don't know what's gonna happen. I would like to ask you sincerely to make good use of the decisions we have written in today's debate. Don't say we're reducing standards of protection at work, reducing coercion and things like that. I hope that even if you criticize all other things, that you will at least admit that you will look at a comparative review of the law, this is an integral part of every marriage proposal when you have to write a comparative review with other countries in the beginning. At least read it to yourself and you'll find out that we actually want to implement the same things they have in the north, as I said in Austria, Germany. We want to somehow improve our business environment. I prefer much more, I will be calm, and I will say, "Okay, I'm sitting down today, saving at least three hours of time" that the coalition says honestly that because of New Slovenia's proposal, it is not supported by them to prepare their marriage and bring it to Parliament in two, three months. I'll say, thank you very much for the coalition. I'll sit down, finish the debate, and we'll save at least three hours. It's not like he's pulling arguments out of the scars that he's actually not holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. You can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it yet. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Škoberne has.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u42	Madam Vice-President, I would kindly ask you to inform your colleague that the coalition, at least after what I have heard, is in no way rejecting and is not in favour of the proposal of this law because it comes from New Slovenia, or because they would not read it. Since the applicant listened and because you listened, you can tell him that it is more than obvious from our opening remarks that we have read the law. That we greatly appreciate the efforts of New Slovenia, so that when it proposes it can also produce bistros such as "random negligence". We do not support the law because it comes from New Slovenia, but because it is bad and is contrary to the fundamental principles of the protection of the employee and contrary to the fundamental principles of the protection of human dignity at work, its health and the rights already achieved. I suppose we will not work to compete with those who do not respect the rights of employees. Once again, I ask you kindly to inform the proposer that we do not reject and are not unfriendly to his proposal because it is his, but because it is bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. First, I would respond to the first procedural proposal. The first proposal involved abuse or more debate. We could wait a little longer and say that. Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to procedure. I hope it's not a procedural abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Whenever I am sitting in the National Assembly and disagree with the opposition, it is often obvious to me that I am very ideologically opposed to some of the proposals. Comrade Tonin, if you are wondering where Members of Parliament live when we disagree with you, I wonder what parallel world you are in. So that in its position today, the SMC has never ideologically defined itself to the proposed law, so that I ask the President to warn my fellow Member, when it troubles Members in general, to be at least properly selective about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u46	Vice-President, first of all, I should like to thank you for being correct and also reminding your fellow Member that he has violated the rules of procedure and misused the procedural proposal. I've done all these discussions I've made on the basis of what I've heard. And it was amazing to me that if someone reads it as a colleague in the SD, if they read our marriage proposal to make such claims. However, the claims were that our law improves the safety of workers at work, that our proposal weakens the pressure on the employer to provide certain measures to improve the safety of workers, and that it does not solve real problems. These were at least three essential things that bothered me very much, because if we strictly read our marriage proposal, it could be clear to you that this is not true. And if that's not true, then I can only look for reasons to argue in some of the other arguments I've been talking about. And I'm going to quote, I'm going to read the law, the fourth page where it says about the case of Austria, and that's what we want to introduce to Slovenia. "If the event involved a minor negligence, the insurer, social security does not have the right to claim compensation for payments." That's what the background check says. And once again, we want to implement the model, as we do in the north, where it obviously works, in Slovenia. And once again, I will stress that some of you have heard that this is not an equalization of responsibility. It is still a clear responsibility of the employer. It is simply that he is required to pay a different amount according to what negligence has been committed. But now I'm going to try to be more specific. If it is a construction company where the employer provides his employee with a working helmet, then this worker does not take it for reasons and does not wear it in the construction site and is injured – then what is it? However, when it comes to a case where an employer knowingly violates all safety regulations at work and there is no mercy, and this is a matter that I would like to point out clearly that if someone consciously does not provide their workers with a certain degree of safety at work, then the matter is clear that he must be punished. But look, all these people who turned to us, they're probably also onto you, they have specific cases and reasons. I don't know, call, you still have time for today's debate, for example at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, where they can tell you, if you don't believe me, because you obviously don't believe my arguments, listen to them at least. They will tell you some specific cases where it is not possible for workers or employers to be barbarians to deliberately cause such a thing, but it was a series of unfortunate circumstances that led to a lot of serious injuries. For such cases, we want to create an appropriate legislative framework that will ensure the safety of workers and in some way allow employers a predictable working environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u48	I cannot agree that this law means a reduction in the protection of standards at work. We have for every profession, for every craftsman we also have sectoral laws that regulate security. If they are engaged in a variety of trades, if they are engaged in a mechanical workshop, they have a bunch of laws governing protection at work and also responsible treatment of the environment and one part is also enshrined in the Environmental Protection Act. Then we also have the Labour Protection Act, which everyone has to comply with, then we have the labour legislation. So every marriage has to be respected by a craftsman. Our marriage is without prejudice to any of these laws that regulate his business, that business is under the letter of the law. However, it is true that this law would encourage insurance companies to make additional insurance, additional products that would make it easier for entrepreneurs to operate and anyone could, if they had the option, insure their workers in commercial insurance companies. But since we do not have properly regulated legislation, insurance companies do not place such a product on the market. None of you ask why not. Also, the State Insurance Company Triglav does not have such a product. You'll say, yes, there's probably no interest. It's an occupation. At least 35,000 independent entrepreneurs would have an interest in this type of insurance, but since we do not have properly regulated sectoral legislation in this area, insurance companies do not make such a product. Today, there were indeed some flowers during the debate or positions, which actually went beyond the scope of today's bill. Christian Democrats always stress that the greatest social security and best social policy is a well-paid job. In Slovenia such cities are provided by small and medium-sized craftsmen and entrepreneurs. If that were the case, I could probably nod a lot of people. But why aren't big companies such good employers? Some say big companies, a large number of employees will save this Slovenia. I wish I could. But my fellow Members, how much do we help such large Slovenian companies to live? Today I looked at who is wearing the shoes of a Slovenian manufacturer. It is precisely those who claim that such companies must remain, unfortunately, as I have seen, that was not the case. We ourselves will be able to save Slovenian big companies! Even one of you has worked in such a company that you can be faithful to him. I think there is also a need for a question of our own conscience and our own responsibility to Slovenian companies. If we have this, then we also have our own responsibility to this country and that we are all doing what is right and that no one has another fifth treaty besides the term of office. Because that's what was said to be the worst is one employee or one or up to five employees. These are the worst, it's been said today, please! I can't help it because everyone's trying to survive. Everyone's trying to survive! And I think it's very distorted that some of them have, in addition to all this, some espa or some other company, and then they're talking against entrepreneurs. Everyone's trying to survive. This is also the way an independent entrepreneur works to survive himself and his family. Unregulation in this area in pension claims. Two days ago we discussed health insurance, and today we are talking about pension insurance. If there is a leniency injury, minor negligence, this independent entrepreneur is also subject to disability compensation, disability damage for this worker. No one wants me to be disabled, not to say anything worse, because for me, human life is priceless. And this disability now also burdens the employer all the time as he carries out his activity or he can take him to the canteen, bankruptcy, and imprisonment. And because he is an independent entrepreneur, he responds with all his property, and because of one such accident he can come to all the property and we have a very great social distress for him and his family, which is dependent on this income. There's a lot of money in this country for everyone. Not for everyone. Not for independent entrepreneurs and craftsmen. But for damages, for guarantees TES 6, taxpayers open wallets, for state forest guarantees, open wallets, guarantees for HSE, open wallets, and you could also list, Sugar Ormož, open wallets. That'll go all the way from the taxpayers now. Two days ago, I heard that these claims were only for 1.2 million. Of course, just for 1.2 million. Indeed, what is this compared to the 9 million claims that Slovenia will have to make. This would be enough for almost 7.8 years for some safety of independent entrepreneurs and employees. The Ministry is also aware of the need for regulation in this area. But probably because of the opposition to entrepreneurship, it hasn't been settled for so many years. Because this thing has been burning for years. And we're really wondering why not. When we ask why not, when someone asks why it didn't work out, the answer will be no. The easiest thing to do is to say that no one has suggested that these things should be settled and that things should be allowed to run away from themselves, because for that little man who is actually concerned or who lives there in the countryside, no one knows about his distress, the plight of his family, nor his children. I think that the government or representatives of the ministry should be glad that the matter has moved forward in this area and that we have informed you that it is high time that things are arranged, that our entrepreneurs and independent craftsmen can become competitive in the global market and that this burden is being burdened. Since everyone wants to develop, everyone wants to hire people, but I tell you that this risk for certain types of craftsmen, independent entrepreneurs, is too great to be able to turn and entrepreneurship. Thus, the indirect state really kills those small, healthy cells that actually find themselves on the market to survive, to be able to market, to develop. And I think it's a coup d'état. The current situation in the country is a reflection of this situation and it seems to me that this is the greatest damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Matthew Tonin, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u50	I called because there will be two of today's most combat MPs behind me, and I would like to suggest something to them to discuss how to comment on this. Again, a very precise example of what we are proposing, and God forbid that this should happen, I am speaking a hypothetical case. You have a young worker, aged 25, who is a metal cutter, working on a machine, and by chance, because of a web of circumstances, some spinach or some drunk comes into his eye and this young man is blind at 25 years of age. Of course, the employer will be to blame for not providing him with adequate protection with glasses and so on, but this young worker will retire at 25 years of age. And since the employer has not provided him with adequate glasses, this employer will have been paying a disability pension since he was 25 years old, the state may require that money from him. Imagine what a risk this is for an entrepreneur. We would only like to limit these matters. I'll give you a concrete example, say, of transporting passengers. In traffic accidents too, a web of circumstances can be such that someone is blind. And because he's blind, he's retired. But in the case of passenger transport, things are settled. There the owner of the transport company will not spend his whole life in charge of this worker. But when it comes to a small craftsman and an entrepreneur, you want us to charge him with it. As a result, the Chamber of Commerce states, inter alia, that this matter is also problematic in terms of the constitutional principle of equality, that small entrepreneurs are not in the same position as others. This is, for example, a purely concrete case that we want to solve in a dignified way, and you say that this is all without connection and meaningless and I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get Mr. Miha Kordish ready, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u52	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think it is great that colleague Tonin has highlighted a specific case that we can discuss. When does the regression claim apply, when does the employer have to reimburse the insurance company for the cost incurred by the work accident? Where he did not comply with the rules of protection at work when he left the employee’s duty to protect him, when he did not comply with the rules on who and how he could go to the construction site. During my student and student years, I have often worked on construction sites as well, but I know that with good employers and responsible project managers it is not possible to go to the construction site without suitable equipment, without adequate protective gloves, without helmet, without shoes. I can't tell you if you haven't experienced this. But I can't allow you to pose the thesis that it's problematic right now that the cost of someone's disability is to be covered because someone left the duty to prevent them from entering a dangerous place without glasses. Yeah, I guess it's normal in this country to say, at the construction site, with a machine that's dangerous, you have to put an employee in such a way that he's allowed to work safely. Not that we say, yes, but without glasses, he'll be blind, God help you, right? Christian Democrats can say that, but we live in the layman's world and we need to figure out how to help a man through God's will. And part of that is the insurance system, it's also a disability pension. But if you say so, now no one wants to protect from commercial insurance companies the employer's responsibility for failing to take care of something legally binding. It's like trying to force my insurance agent to protect my house from fire and then it doesn't ask me to do it because I burned it myself. Yeah, well, I didn't secure the house to burn it down and take compensation. This is insurance fraud everywhere in normal countries, and Slovenia is also considered among these. And frankly, colleague Tonin, I highly appreciate you and I don't understand where you draw these logical conclusions and the legal nonsense that comes from your proposal. Maybe you didn't read it well, and we read it better, and we understand what that means. You're saying you're just going to limit the compensation that the employer has to settle in case he's responsible for the accident himself. Will you also limit the disability that may arise? Thus, the employer will be obliged to cover up to EUR 15,000 of the cost of disability, and someone will be a 100% disabled person for the rest of his life, which is his problem. God help you, would you say if I understood or what?Oh, my God! Of course, none of us can accept it here. And why would we do that? To make businesses more competitive, you speak. I mean, competitive on what? To compete, who will have a lower standard of employee protection? To allow for a little negligence? But let him be without his glasses, and you will be blinded if it happens — no harm! But the one who does not provide the glasses will be cheaper than the one who does that than the good employer who is already doing it today. We can go through Gorenje together and the security engineer will take you there, you'll see how strict the measures are there and how fast they can happen to escort you out if you think you don't respect the appropriate safety standards at work – I'll wait for you to talk because I think it's important that you listen to my debate. Thank you. There is already a sharing of responsibility between the worker and the employer. Before that, my colleague Tabakovic told you very well. If the employee is responsible for causing the accident himself, of course, it is clear who will bear the burden. In order to limit my employer's responsibility for causing 100% disability, because – to her – random negligence. There's no random negligence in the construction site! You can't accidentally fail to set up a guard stage when you're making a facade. You can set it up, but you can't. [[advertising from the hall]] That's right, colleague Iva. You know, it's not hard! But I don't understand how you came to this proposal that you have here, if everything is clear. Finally, it has been pointed out that we must be competitive globally. In the most successful industrial countries, including the United States of America, in industries that are the most industrially powerful, trade unions with capital owners and employers have reached agreement on what the standards are. I was wondering if you could make it. You can also do an experiment for Germany or Austria, which you love so much, or you can get to a construction site without a helmet. We sit, drive across Caravanka, and we go to Austria, which you give me, and in case we as two MPs can come to the construction site, where the helmet is required, without the helmet. Let's go, let's just drive! Let's do a social experiment! And once again, Comrade Tonin. I greatly appreciate you, I greatly appreciate your Christian party, even though the logic of democracy and God's supremacy is somehow disputed with myself, but I will not reject your proposal because it comes from your side, but because it is weak because it is puzzled with logic and because it lacks something that you often use in your discourses – common sense. This is that if you have caused harm to someone, it must also be returned to him justly and not without the protection of the house from the fire that I set on myself. It's either fraud or a crime. If it makes you feel any better after these illustrations, otherwise, I believe you'll be given a useful hand by your colleague Kordish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u53	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u54	Comrade Skoberne, you must admit that you are a rhetorical Member, capable of slyly contradicting words. I can say that I even liked your debate, except for the fact that you bring in some Christian stuff with connotation, which is of course negative. But that's your business. I don't blame you. Where do you twist words? That you want this proposal of our law, or this debate of mine, will show that from now on, if this law were passed or that my argument is such that we tolerate negligence and that even if someone does not respect the rules of the game, someone else pays for it. Far from it! That's not true. Comrade Scoberne, that's not true! Listen to me very carefully. Employers pay for injuries and diseases at work 0.53% in wages. According to data received by the Government, between €70 million and €80 million per year are collected. So it's some kind of solidarity, it's some kind of insurance when you pay some money every month for injury and illness at work. This money is paid by the state, and not just from the luft, but from the economy, from the salaries is paid and from this title is collected between €70 million and €80 million. Our proposal is that when it comes to minor negligence, this damage and these problems should be paid from this fund. But when it comes to greater negligence, it is only right that the employer is responsible. Mr. Skoberne, we agree with you here. If someone knowingly violates the rules at work, it is right to pay and have to pay if the state demands it, at least EUR 15 000. It's the right thing to do. But we're also talking about some boundaries. You can't sink an enterprise because of a network of unfortunate circumstances. You completely bungled my problem with your helmet and your glasses. Some employer can ensure all of this, do it, provide it, and there are still life cases when this thing is not used and accidents happen. See, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry presented cases where employers were punished because they did not have the appropriate labels and some fences in the workplace. Okay, here's the point where we're different. My argument is that if some employer forgot to put a label on the machine, he would not have punished him to the point that we should close the company, and you say if this accident caused it, it is negligence, and if necessary, it should also be done. This is the only place we're different. And while you're talking, you're talking about how things are going to get worse in Slovenia. Once again, I cannot understand your argument if the countries we follow and in many debates because of their trade union activities, if you want, or because of their already traditional labour rights over the centuries, which have been formed, for example, in Austria and Germany, that workers there have very high protection and now that we are proposing the same concepts, the same solutions, you tell us that we are improving security. Let him know who can!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u55	Mr. Skoberne's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Comrade Tonin, we are very different in many other ways, not just in political views. For example, yes, if someone forgets, it is his duty not to forget it, to write about the working machine, caution, opening or touching is deadly and therefore there is an opening or touch of something that is deadlyly dangerous, a friend, it is a manslaughter can – or something else! And to her, the poor employer who forgot the sign to set him up, the mortal danger. Don't joke! Don't joke. I guess it can't happen, even in your logic, or it can't happen. But maybe the difference between us is that I'm significantly more behind a machine than I've been behind, and there's a lot more to the construction site, and I can imagine more plasticly how dangerous it can be in a rollerblade if you're allowed to, but you can't let anyone out. I'm sorry. I will not argue with you because we have very different views, but that you will convince me that O.K. is to limit compensation to 15,000 euros, even if the value of the damage can be more than 100, I will support such a law at the moment you find a way, and with God's help, how can we also limit the disability that comes with this? As long as disability caused by negligence or failure to act by someone who is obliged to do so arises to a person, it is the duty of the State to say first that this must be settled, justly compensated and then demanded of everyone in the work process. Because I apologize – yes, things can be trivial. [[…]] The death penalty is low, and that's why there's been an accident working with a fatal outcome. Social Democrats will not allow such logic, we will not support it and we will not accept it. Thank you so much, so be my last performance, because I can see it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u57	Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. This whole debate today by the proposer is below the level, even for neoliberals, this debate is subversive. It is a crusade, a small enterprise, a deus vult and market fundamentalism. But before I go to the substantive part of my discussion, I have to correct my colleague Tabakovic from the coalition, who previously claimed at some point that the added value is created by employers. Not true, added value, all value creates work, workers. Employers, however, have created value and then have control over its flow. The first thing that falls into my eyes and I have to respond to is that the proposaler from New Slovenia constantly refers to the fact that we are dealing with a real social problem. Last year, the Institute of Health Insurance paid only EUR 1.2 million in compensation, all compensations, not just those specific ones. Our GDP is measured in billions. How the hell is this a real problem? Furthermore, the applicant also submits that by its intervention it does not lower standards and enforcement, which introduce health and safety standards at work. Yeah, we're dealing with a law that's cool with standards and security at work! What do you do, then, as with these standards and these forces? But what I liked most was the discussion by colleague Iva Dimic, who came to the table with a statement that they are the best jobs in small businesses. I mean, what do small businesses do? There are forced espas in this sector, which, we know, are not really any entrepreneurs, but they are forced by larger employers to become self-employed and operate in extremely poor conditions with poor pay. Then, in the small enterprise sector, there's the "business purse". And last but not least, how can quality jobs create a sector that trades abroad for EUR 3.7 billion minus. If we compare this with large companies, we will quickly find out what a serious development perspective is. The large business sector, according to Sursa's 2012 survey, generates an excess of €2.6 billion in foreign exchange. The ideology of small entrepreneurship as a development engine of Slovenia simply does not apply, it does not last. Germany, not least, or Austria, to which it likes to refer, has not developed and is not retaining its leading role in the world because of the small enterprise sector, but because of large industrial chains concluded. Only if a country can overcome such chains that can compete in a global way can it say that there is a quality environment in the country for accompanying craftsmanship and small business. There is no way, however, that we can ensure the development of a small enterprise sector through lowering safety standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u59	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u60	Look, I'll always check in when you talk about lowering security standards. No, they're not going down! And please don't say that, because we don't interfere with the rules and laws that regulate protection at work, and what you're saying doesn't. And an answer to my colleague Skobernet. You know, when you run out of arguments, then you refer to God's will and things like that. I like that the big night has had a beneficial impact on you and that these things mean more to you. I don't have a problem. As a social democrat, you should have a fundamental understanding of what the principle of solidarity is if you want to. You know exactly that in this country, even under your leadership, solidarity has always been an important concept. In this concept, the state takes care of its people, even when things aren't, I'll say 100 percent with the money covered. It can happen to me, it can happen to you that because of a web of unfortunate circumstances, we will be disabled in five, ten years, and by then we will certainly not be paid into this pension system as much as we may be if the life expectancy is long, through pensions. This principle is called solidarity for society as a whole to take care of such cases. I'm really disturbed by the cases where you're banalizing to the end, you know, how we're gonna have the Wild West here now, because there's not going to be any rules for protection at work. Everyone will walk through the construction site in short pants or whatever else they want, no one will take any action into account. No, that's not true! Everyone, believe me, that each of the employers is doing their best to ensure that, at least honest employers, they are doing their best to provide their workers with the best possible conditions, but life is unpredictable and can bring a lot of benefits. It is for such cases that we want to regulate them by law and bring them into some manageable framework.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u61	Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much. President, my procedural proposal is to draw the last debater's attention to the fact that it should not move, at least not so clearly. The applicants argue that they do not change any standards in relation to safety at work. Yes, they do not formally change them, but they reduce the pressure that these standards would not be respected in practice. I have advocated this and highlighted it already when I represented the position of the United Left, and that it goes beyond that in later discussions and manipulates itself, turns around with words, is simply a diversion. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u63	I think I need to warn both of you. All of this is part of the debate, but procedural does not use for this, and you do not react, please kindly, in this way procedurally, because it is wrong for you to react. Do you have a procedure in here, too? They're probably both going to use it procedurally. I've usually never been wrong before when I expected someone to abuse procedure. You have a procedural mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u64	Mr President of the National Assembly, we are both political scientists, and you probably understand that the exchange of views in Parliament is some normal practice that is allowed. Everyone's trying his best to argue. Although I do not agree with my colleagues, I do not resent them, they have the right to their position. My procedural proposal is only that Members of Parliament, who may see this differently, I will not point out any more harsh words, that this is part of normal parliamentary practice, that we may also disagree and that the debate is part of the normal process.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u65	I absolutely agree that the debate is part of the formal process, but please do not abuse the rules of procedure if there is no need. I'd understand if you were running out of time, then you'd understand procedurally, otherwise I don't understand them. As long as the debate is ongoing, I do not intend to restrict it myself, as I have not limited it in all practice so far. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Get ready, mags. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! When we talk about such high regression claims as we have in law in our country, we can also talk about the non-competitiveness or diminishing the competitiveness of our economy towards the economies in our neighbourhood, and so it is. To whom is our bill intended? The problem, given such high regressive claims, is that those small entrepreneurs, the weakest ones in this chain, can be threatened, also threatened by the fact that when an accident occurs or the very payment of a regression claim, this can lead to bankruptcy of the company. This is not in the interest or in the interest of anyone, not the State, the legislators, not the government, nor the entrepreneurs themselves. As a result, the new unemployed, the downturn of businesses, family tragedies, such and different. It is logical, therefore, what we have proposed in New Slovenia, or it is also a matter of greater competitiveness, that claims be made only for gross negligence or slander, because whether you are imagining it, you imagine that for a really small thing there can be up to 10,000 and 10,000 compensations that the employer has to pay. Let's ask ourselves here before you press the button against this law, why commercial insurance companies are not prepared to make insurance in these cases. Why aren't the insurance companies ready to cut into this place? Because the regression claims are too high. This is the key reason, this is the key reason, and thus we are burdening or reducing the competitiveness of no one but our entrepreneurs. For in other countries of the European Union this is better arranged. The other is the issue of inspections on the labelling of work machinery, construction sites. If you don't have a properly marked working machine, what's dangerous, what's not dangerous, you can't even open a business, you can't even start a working machine like that. The construction site of the work shall also not take place if it is not adequately secured. We agree, however, that the safety of workers is one of the basic conditions and that all of this must be well arranged, but the problem is that in Slovenia, as usual, we are more papal than the pope himself. This is also true in this case, when we burden, we overburden employers, so burdened that commercial insurance companies in this case are not prepared to enter the premises themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u67	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, please prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Undoubtedly, as I have heard from the last debater, the aim is to reduce the cost of working in the economy or the burden of the economy. I think there are a lot of problems here, we're talking about regression claims today, it's about one segment, but there are a lot of problems. The one who refers to regression claims is more important to my notions than the regression claim itself, is abstention in the workplace because I think it is a big problem. Why? In fact, according to Eurofund, Slovenia is at the very top of the abstention, it is said that there is a absence in the workplace, from 31 countries in 7th place by number of absences, 28% of employees are absent, and 3rd place after the length of this absence. On average, we've been gone 30.8 days. This means 10 to 11 million working days or almost 39,000 employees at the annual level. If we look through finance, it's 800 million a year. And it is true that employers spend about 200 million days away for a period of up to 30 days, and there may be reserves. The Health Insurance Office also 200 million and the employer, because it has to replace someone else at that time, even about that much, is said to be 210 to 220. But what is the most common reason for the absence, however, is that colleague Kordiš said, these are precisely injuries in the workplace, one of the most common reasons is this; of course there are many reasons, but this is the most common. The most common factor comes from the work organisation; it is said that we have a regulated situation in the workplace. Says the recipe to solve this is investing in the health of employees and our society is aware of it. He knows how important the worker is, he is the one who gives added value, and how important it is that we have a healthy working environment to make the worker feel good – the worker is capital. It is precisely because we are increasingly aware of this in our society that we have adopted a series of rules, and one of the key is the Law on Protection and Health at Work, which sets out the worker's right to work, which gives him the right to have a safe and healthy working environment. If we are talking about justice on the one hand, we are talking about duty on the other hand. It is the employer's duty to ensure this. So in order to have the capital, the worker, he owes him, as he is obliged to pay him, he also owes him a safe and healthy working environment. Of course, the worker also has a duty to respect this. When we talk about a regression application, there is a certain responsibility of both; it is said, on one side of the employee, on the other side of the employer. Our legislator has decided that there is enough negligence in this case, and this is because it is a contractual relationship. It is a work relationship, not a purely ordinary person, but a contractual relationship in which everyone has his or her rights and duties. So the law says that the employer must provide for all these tasks laid down in the law. In particular, it must provide prevention, all measures and also take care of vulnerable groups. Moreover, it must also ensure the promotion of health in the workplace. These are all employers' duties. We are talking so much today about this degree of negligence, but here we are talking about bond law, not about criminal law, where we have serious, we can talk about negligence, consciously, unconsciously, but we are talking about bond law. That is, if you suggest severe negligence, what you are actually proposing – you are allowing for extreme carelessness. Under bond law, this is the extreme indiscretion of an individual. So if we leave this, then we no longer need the Law on Protection and Health at Work, which says that both of you have to — say, you must — and have a series of provisions that are defined as a violation in case that is not respected. If we exclude this, it is said that he will not be responsible, even if the worker is not provided with personal equipment and its use, does not carry out similar investigations into the harmful effects of the working environment, inspections of working machines and equipment and even — such a banal — does not provide first aid measures. If we do this, we will end it; therefore, he is no longer responsible for these matters, and therefore we do not need a violation under the Law on Protection and Health at Work. But it is determined that if he proves that he was careful enough to do all of this, there is no blame on him. Thus, in this case, if we say that the employer is responsible in any case, we are absolutely deceiving him because he is not responsible if he proves that he has been particularly careful, that is, the ordinary negligence required of the employer is not liable in such a case. If we look at statistics, the biggest talk today was about independent entrepreneurs. Last year it was on a pension, so the PIZ had 49 applications worth EUR 265,000. So we're talking 265,000 euros. Indeed, the amount of the penalty or contribution to be paid by the employer is very high – €15 000. But it seems that it works preventively because employers are aware of it. The regression amount required by the PIZ is only EUR 265,000. It's not small, it's big, but again, compared to what you want to show, it's not true. And all the claims that are still open are 651, and there are sixteen espions in it. We're talking 16 espies. At the same time, we're talking about fifteen workers, natural persons, just for comparison. And we're talking about someone being responsible for causing disability, someone needs constant help, or home service, or even death. Earlier, there was also talk about social justice or solidarity. Lawyers don't usually like us in the National Assembly, and, as I understand, sometimes you think we do more harm than good, but you do understand the essence of bond law and damages, and sometimes you have to be a lawyer. Indeed, this is not about solidarity of justice, but about equal justice. That's the essence of bond law. What's her point? That the damage you're doing, you have to pay it back, and that's why it's a certain responsibility. What I think there is still a lot to be done in our area, however, is the whole working culture. In our field of expertise and here we will have to do a great deal before we can apply the comparative legislation that you cited — both in Austria and in Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u69	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u70	When I listened to my colleague, I felt that a little less than our marriage encouraged negligence. Far from it! And even this marriage of ours will allow for negligence. Let's be honest and very exact. In an undertaking, when the work process is regulated, inspectors also have a wide range of competences to verify whether or not matters are in accordance with the law. This law speaks only in cases where, due to such or other circumstances, an unpleasant situation arises that restrictions are imposed. Please, however, do not debate in the sense that we are promoting negligence. I think that's too much, though.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u71	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get ready for Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka and Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! From today's debate, mainly from the introductory positions of the parliamentary groups, I am sure that this law will not be adopted. In addition, I think that even if it had been adopted, it would not have achieved the purpose that the applicants want to stress, namely, New Slovenia. If we look so wide, these claims could be very high. If we just think that a young worker has to retire, because he has failed at work or at work, then there will be a disability pension, and when he dies, his heirs or children can continue to have a family pension, and that could be very high amounts, if we just look at it that way. However, there is also a need to look at the statistics on pension insurance, as shown in the field of these regression claims. A colleague of Kozlovich's already said something. I obtained data from the annual reports of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, and I was also, in fact, surprised that these claims were relatively small. Nor did the number of these applications increase after December 2013, when the pension institution or the pension institution's council adopted a decision limiting this amount of regression claims. The minimum requirement of EUR 20 and the highest requirement of 50 times the lowest pension base, which is now EUR 37 000, is calculated round. Well, it was interesting, too, that, at the time, the proposal was for the ZPIZ, for the Council of the Zpiz Institute to determine the 20-fold maximum amount, but a group of employers, employers' representatives and the Chamber of Commerce, did not support this proposal and put the proposal on the PPIZ Board itself that it was 50-fold. In fact, after some reflection, I am surprised why, for example, now the Chamber of Commerce supports the New Slovenia proposal. If I can get back to that statistics now. Even before 2013 when the new pension legislation was adopted and the conditions in this area were also tightened, so that the provision referring to gross negligence fell out, only negligence remained, and then one would expect, after some analogy, that there would be no more claims and there would be no more claims. That's all I'm gonna say in the last three years. Before the new legislation, in 2010, 300 regress applications and 18 lawsuits, amounting to 89 000 euros. In 2011 559 24 lawsuits and the total value of these lawsuits amounted to EUR 128 000. In 2012 211 regression claims, 34 lawsuits, EUR 216 000 total amount. Since 2013, when this legislation is in force; 2013 120 appeals, 44 lawsuits, 261 000 euros, 2014, 267 appeals, 49 lawsuits and 265,000 euros and last year 198, that is less than 200 applications filed, 28 and 115 thousand euros total compensation. Therefore, the amounts are not high if we look at them as I have mentioned that they could be very high, but they are not, because we also need to know that the court and the court decide all the arguments carefully and only then decide on how much guilt there is to be paid by either the employer or the natural person who causes this physical disability or disability or whatever, any benefit that the pension institution has to pay. I think that these problems, which arise with regard to injuries at work and work, could also be limited by stricter inspection controls. There should be more of this control and there should be higher penalties in these inspection controls, or I do not know how, such penalties as to really deter all employers from providing protection at work. In this regard, it also recalled the problem of carriers carrying out vans. Apparently, these transports in the van are limited to how long they can drive — those are those tachometers, I think they are called, by the drivers of buses, trucks and so on. Perhaps we would also go in this direction to sharpen this, for drivers of these vans after long driving and long driving hours that they must carry out happen to be less able to drive and can cause more accidents. So much for this part. I certainly cannot support the proposal proposed by NSI for the reasons already stated in our parliamentary group, SD and SMC, because I do not personally agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u73	The word has come from Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka, prepare for the Mag. Jana Jenko and Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! It is more than obvious that the topic of today's debate is quite difficult. In fact, here we have witnessed very different transitions on every possible side, which is probably not appropriate. Regardless of the number of regressive claims alone, this is certainly an important issue, in particular for smaller companies, which may have a problem with high compensation, and this is a key reason, I believe why Nova Slovenija has also made such a change in the law. The Pension and Disability Insurance Office may require reimbursement of the damage caused by the employer if this intentional or negligence results in disability, physical impairment of the insured person. We have already heard, in the past we have had the very notion of great negligence and the number of requests after the change should not change, and then I understand even more difficult why such fear, why it would change now, but it would certainly help at least a small number of these companies, who have had an accident in some way and received high compensation. Unfortunately, in practice, when an accident occurs at work – of course, we would like it not to occur – it is right for the employer to ensure everything that must, that the job is safe, all in accordance with the legislation or even more. I absolutely agree with that, and I am in favour of that. In practice, however, it is unfortunate that accidents also occur and it is not necessarily the employer's fault for the accident for the reason that he failed to provide and implement all the measures necessary for safety and health at work. In practice, it is also sometimes so that it is the employer’s fault that he has done everything, i.e. individual workers can also be very capable of bearing this responsibility. We have heard that the most threatened in some way are very small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises, these small employers who employ up to ten people there, and I have been very struck by the debate of a colleague from the United Left who wondered what social security such companies provide. Yes, very big! Every employee, even if he is self-employed, ensures social security and is very welcome to the country, taking care of himself, the state does not need to worry about him and the debates about entrepreneurship and small businesses have been completely missed. What I find very disturbing is that, in fact, the insurance companies in our country do not allow employers to be insured for such a risk, for such a risk. We should really do something in this direction to change this, because I believe that employers would be interested in such insurance. Of course, in cases where the employer is in breach of the rules, it is absolutely right that he is responsible for this indemnity. Unfortunately, though, as I have already said, even if the damage caused by the worker, the compensation liability would ultimately remain the burden of the employer. If we remember a little bit, what does the employer actually have to do to ensure proper security — and that does not change? I was very disturbed by the individual debates that say that this will reduce safety in the workplace, safety for human health. I absolutely can't agree with that. See, the employer must first of all have a safety statement with a risk assessment for each job. The worker must be instructed, in accordance with the workplace he carries out, to receive medical examinations, to provide adequate training to the staff member. If these educations are appropriate or not, it is likely that someone else here is responsible to keep an eye on them. And, of course, it is necessary to provide the worker with adequate protection at work, adequate breaks, if necessary, and, of course, we need to give clear instructions on how to act. But no matter what the employer does, even though there is a label on a machine that makes it mandatory to have, I don't know, a helmet, glasses or the like, gloves, special gloves, sometimes workers don't take that into account. It is very difficult for the superiors to expect – I believe they are trying not to let an employee in a single working environment without a helmet, but it can happen. Probably every employee doesn't always have one who's going to oversee this always being properly dressed. There aren't many of these cases, but they do happen, and I really think it would be good to do something about it. In view of the views presented, I really wonder where you can see that this preventive role will change with the changes proposed by Nova Slovenija. Really, they're not here. Last but not least, if such a similar solution is good for Austria, which has a number of laws, much better, even in the field of work and employment – why not be suitable for us? I personally support such a solution, I think it is appropriate and I truly regret that there is no obedience here today. But I also wonder, after all, every initiative we give from the opposition is rejected by the coalition, even if it is the smallest amendments. I'm really starting to wonder if sometimes it's not just a whim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u75	The word has magic. Jana Jenko, prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Recently, I have been following with interest the draft laws that Nova Slovenije is putting into the procedure. One day, the workers are bitterly advocated, and one day, employers are bitterly advocated — as the wind does and what is better heard at that time. With regard to this bill, security; security must be ensured and regressive claims must be in conformity with the infringement. For example, Mr. Tonin used to tell someone to fly a deck into someone's eye. Yeah, if that worker had glasses, they wouldn't have flown in. If the employer were to make sure that the worker had glasses, the deck wouldn't fly. That is said, responsibility is mutual, this responsibility is further judged by the court. Also, the employer must not let such an employee into the workplace. We know that due to the speed of the work, employers do not have the proper equipment. All of this is contingent on capital — to do as much as possible in the short term. This happens a lot. Applications after years since the adoption of the ZPIZ-2, which, by the way, was also supported by Nova Slovenije and did not have any comment on this article in the law, although the Chamber of Commerce has pointed out this, do not increase. This is relevant evidence that the situation in this area does not change, but it is a case in point that happens. However, this change would definitely result in less inflows to the pension register, since pension bills also cover extraordinary expenses or pay pensions that do not come from work. At the same time, there is still no interest to change so that all these extraordinary expenditure from the pension fund can be settled and transferred to individual ministries. That is why I will not support this bill. I support the rights of workers who are almost always in a minority opposite employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u77	Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u78	Unfortunately, we need to hear a lot of demagogies again and again in the National Assembly, just as this was the last one. In New Slovenia, we stand for man, so that he can live, work and create normally and with dignity, and, of course, be responsible for it. We must stress again and again that employers have to take care of the safety of workers, and at no point have we said that they do not need to do so. They have to take care of it! But we all know that even with such great concern, accidents can sometimes occur, and good lawyers can make you feel guilty right away. We just want to say, and we have also made this proposal on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because we have been presented with a problem. Many small craftsmen, entrepreneurs, are afraid to hire people because these damages are disproportionate because they cannot be protected in the event of such an accident without wanting to be, without deliberately doing it, because we also do not see any relief for intentional actions. But that's what happens. Let's just think, if we watch the little kid, we can do anything, and he'll fall right out of our chair, and we can be accused of a lot without wanting to. We just want to say that we must also be obedient to those who have jobs that employ people. Why are we fighting for this, for entrepreneurs? Because we are fighting for jobs for citizens, we are also fighting for pensions, as we heard earlier from Desus, as they are fighting for pensions. Only employees are paid into the pension register. Therefore, the fight for entrepreneurship, for the economy, is a struggle for jobs, for people, not on their own. Small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises are already in most of Slovenia, this is the majority of our economy and they are very important because they are flexible. Anyone who is capable of opening a job should be commended in Slovenia. For some, however, it is true that it is an enemy of a country that must be completely destroyed and loaded. I hear that, unfortunately, in the debates in the National Assembly. Do you even know what you're saying? Do you realize that those who create jobs have a great responsibility to do so? So, we're not against these employers doing everything for safety, of course, we have to ask them to do it. But there are unintended accidents. And if the previous debater claims that the employer is responsible if the worker wears the glasses – of course, will he hold his hand or will he stand next to it? If he has five employees, will he just stand there and watch whether he put his glasses and gloves up or not? I mean, these are sort of lifeless things that we can't see. Our initiative, our proposal is given on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, which has detected this problem among its members, so we have made this proposal. From some discussions, when we discussed a similar topic last time, I have heard that you have also seen this problem, that something needs to be done. When we offer one proposal, you criticize it, you reject it, you confuse us with all kinds of nicknames, I just don't understand you. In New Slovenia, we have put this proposal on a good footing because we think of all citizens; not only workers, not only employers, not only pensioners, but all those who are willing to invest their money in businesses, open jobs, behave responsibly, pay taxes, do everything; however, there is an accident. Just think, doctors can protect themselves, and we know that a lot of mistakes happen to them, but they can be protected. But they cannot even protect themselves, and so a person’s whole life may be a victim of a mistake that has occurred, of an accident; it has not caused it on purpose. This is what we want to explain, what we want to explain, and what we also have for such cases of obedience, and what we are looking for are the right solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u79	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Prepare Mr. Joseph Horvath and Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this marriage myself. This year we had an annual meeting with the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises of Škofja Loka, where we met Members elected in our constituencies in Škofja Loka, together with mayors and craftsmen. One of the main points of the discussion was the problem that we are talking about today. From this point of view, I think I need a debate and I also need a step that is longer than a debate; this law is confirmed. The law proposed by colleagues from Nova Slovenije does not in any case put employees in a worse position, to the contrary. For those who are unemployed, this law gives them the opportunity to gain employment more easily. Why? Because those little craftsmen, when I talk to them, have also often written to me that we should be able to do something about this case, they simply do not hope to hire people. I talked to them, they say to me – we have a lot of work to do, I could hire two more, three, four people to expand, but I just don't hope; I don't really hope because there can be a work accident, I can even go into a business, then I go home. We know they're responding with their assets. And there was no case of how then such a man, who thought only well of himself, of his family, of those who employed them and their families, ended. This law does not lower standards either. It's about reckless, unintentional mistakes. Employers complain in particular about when this regressive claim arises that insurance companies do not offer the possibility of such insurance. They pay for contributions in the event of accidents and can still be at risk in such cases. The discussion was also about what the height of this regression claim should be. I think the height of the 20 times the lowest pension base is sufficient. In particular, it is sufficient to protect the employer in the event of such accidents, so that even the company goes down, that it also goes down — many have already happened, I know two cases — family life and then personal life. A lot of people get drunk, I'm sorry. That is precisely why such a law would allow us to take at least one step forward here. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has repeatedly expressed its wishes for such a change. Nor will such a change bring about such banalised cases as we have heard from the Group of Social Democrats and the United Left. I also worked for quite some time in production at the company Marmor Hotavlje, where we know what the weight of the stones are, where we know what the machines are, where we know what the dangers are. What can happen quickly, what can happen quickly, can also be negligence, minimal negligence on the part of the employer if he does not put a warning on a machine not to touch it. I think everyone who works there knows what the working procedures are like, what are the security risks. Even if the employer does all this, if he follows all the protocols, if he does all the security classes at work, there may still be an accident. And God forbid that there be any guilt on his side, even unintentionally, because it can be at the expense of the entire property, even the company. As a result, this law goes in the right direction, does not lower any standards, and in the end, the employer will not be the one who will assess whether it was a big or a small mistake, which was a negligence. The competent authorities will continue to assess this and then follow up on what regressive claims will be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u81	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Prepare Mr Sasa Tabakovic and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Tonin was able to mention me at first. Although this is his method, of course it is not prohibited; it is very misleading because I have not yet had a discussion and I have not been able to reply to it immediately in the replica, but I will now. In the Modern Centre Party and ourselves, we do not agree with the proposal of this law, because we believe it lowers the standards of responsibility for safety at work. The Law on Safety and Health at Work has transposed into our legal order Directive 89/391 of the European Union, which is also mentioned in the Government's works. By the way, I believe you know that the law of the European Union is over our law, that is, the directive and the regulation, our internal law must be in accordance with this law. In accordance with this Directive, the exclusion of the employer's responsibility to ensure a safe and healthy working environment is possible only because of unusual and unforeseen circumstances not controlled by employers or because of exceptional events which, despite all the necessary concerns, could not be avoided by the employer. The Directive itself requires a very high standard of responsibility for safety at work. What is essential in our internal legal order is laid down in the Bond Code for employers, i.e. those who engage in a professional activity, a higher degree of care. A small degree of care is not expected, but a higher degree of care is already in force in the basic law governing bond relations. The employer must follow the rules of the profession and the customs. This may, of course, be the reason for the higher level of responsibility, but it doesn't matter whether he wanted to do something. It's looking at what you should do according to the rules of the profession. And if we now exclude a slight negligence, then we lower the standards of responsibility, not the standards of protection at work, because you really do not propose to lower it; but the standards of responsibility. You have listed, Mr Proposer, what surprises all of you that we have not read your bill and I do not know what. It surprises me that you expect to adapt our system to the Austrian system on the basis of three articles. You will change the law, three articles, a poof, and we will have protection, the protection of workers as they have in Austria. This surprises me to see that you come up with such a proposal and expect the law to have such results. For if we change one law, the provisions of one article of this law, which relates to other laws, namely, the Bond Code and the Law on Safety and Health at Work, then we make a number of changes that you may not even be aware of, because it is, we have seen today, for the complex area of compensation liability and the regression of STIZ to employers. Don't say we're going demagogically if we look at your proposal for a law, namely a proposal to amend Article 190: the individual's responsibility for the damage to the institution. Even if we accepted this proposal of yours, it is not the employer's responsibility in this article at all. Even if we say that we limit the amount of compensation; it is the responsibility of a natural person, a natural person, under the first paragraph. And in the second paragraph it is indeed stipulated that the employer is responsible, but the limitation of compensation applies only to the natural person. If we accept this article of yours, you will not achieve what you want. You'll probably have your own interpretation, but that's how it is when article 190 is explained. The only article determining the employer’s responsibility, and this is beautifully stated in the title of this Article, is Article 191. What is proposed in the proposal for the amendment of the law is that the standard of liability should be reduced to introduce a condition of great negligence and pretention for this responsibility. I believe that now, as is the case, the responsibility of the employer is regulated in accordance with the directive I have mentioned. The criteria in the Compensation Liability Act are now set out which conditions must be met, that compensation liability is given in general, are set out in the Bond Code: illegality, injury, causation and that a certain level of guilt is given to the person who is to be held accountable. He could be guilty; he's not responsible. For example, a minor may be responsible for an act, but he is not responsible because by the time he is seven years old, his parents are objectively responsible for it. These are the terms of compensation that are quite complex. Therefore, you may not have fully understood what you are preparing in the proposal for a change of law. I hope you are but, perhaps; for I do not tell you, but all this must be seen. We now have the criteria that there is any damage to the employer's liability for compensation, that the employer has not fully complied with the safety and health rules at work. In addition, there must be a causal link. What does that mean? The fact that the employer did not respect this actually caused damage. And we already have a condition for the employer's responsibility, so that he did not respect these conditions of safety at work. However, we also have a directive that tells us when this responsibility can be excluded; only in exceptional cases. You could say there's a higher power here. I'm cariculating. I'm not going to explain what a higher power is. You can also look at the Bond Code. And there is also the possibility of sharing responsibility between the employer and the worker if the worker itself contributed to the damage. This all exists in the Bond Code and many times in judicial practice we also share the responsibility of the worker and employer. I believe that this matter is properly regulated and also the responsibility of the employer. What, though, should be emphasized? Article 191 deals with the responsibility of the employer, which is then established by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, not for any damage, but for disability. If a worker is so damaged that he needs foreign help, he is no longer independent but needs foreign help; or for his death. These are the worst consequences a person can suffer in the workplace, not because he just got a little hurt. In this case, the employer’s responsibility does not arise. And such cases are significantly less than when there is some damage in the workplace, when the worker suffers damage; but then this responsibility of the employer, which is then enforced by the PSPIZ against the employer, is not taken into account. For we are talking about disability, about the need for foreign aid, about death, about what happens to the worker, about the little man, as you said, about the worker that happens to him. And only in these very serious cases can the PIZ claim compensation from the employer. Not in any other case. Is it not enough for something so severe to happen to the worker that it has the possibility of the PIZ to receive a refund from the employer?Oh, my God! I don't know where our sense of a little man is for a worker. What kind of worker is not human or does he not have to recognize these rights?Oh, my God! I believe you didn't mean it, but it's the worst injuries that cause disability. If we care about these people, about what happens to them, then we can't bring them down. What's going on? If we enforce what you're proposing, then we're making it difficult for the worker to prove that the employer is responsible for the damage that happened to him. Let's do this in court. I'm not gonna name you and use your methods. I believe that these standards of responsibility for the protection of employers at work should not be reduced. In each particular case, the court, if there is already a dispute – or we have not obtained such detailed information – that the STIZ can also be settled with the employer, does not always result in a dispute. However, if there is a dispute, the court shall determine whether the elements for the employer's liability are given, or whether those elements that I have listed are given to you. And the court shall determine whether they are indeed given and whether the worker is responsible; and whether the employer is responsible, whether he is partly responsible because he has contributed, because despite all that the employer has warned, he has not complied with the instructions. I had this case myself, one worker didn't commit himself, the employer allowed him all protection, he complied with all the regulations, and he didn't commit himself. But part of the responsibility goes to the employee. Therefore, it is appropriate and appropriate to reduce the compensation that is required for which the PPE is entitled. This inflating of individual specific cases, you know what can happen, we really can't talk about them, because in each particular case these specific circumstances are determined by the court. Yes, he does. He does. He does. He does. Legal remedies are also provided for the parties. This is not such a simple thing that we could now find out — there was serious negligence and there the poor worker was injured and there the employer was injured. It's really not so simple that you can just tell me here whether a responsibility is given or not a responsibility given. So I'm really asking you not to get puffed up and dramatic about this. My colleagues already said what kind of damages and I don't know what. At present, there are 651 resert applications under consideration. The average compensation is €7,000,468. Yes, when the employer is responsible, it may be a problem and a problem for him; but to say that he is actually responsible for the damage and that he is obliged to repay the amount to the insurance undertaking does not come before the court finds out the actual circumstances in which the main and most important circumstances are, whether the employer has done everything under the professional criteria he should do in that particular case. If it is found that there is no and that this has caused damage, with only disability, if foreign aid and care is needed, and if death occurs — I really do not have to imagine any worse damage – then this is where the high standards of responsibility apply. I really don't see any reason to lower them now, because there are so many consequences that you just can't convince me that we're lowering these standards here. And also because this existing solution is in accordance with European legislation, which, if you are aware or not, we must respect. Our legislation must comply with the regulations; they shall apply as published in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, we are transposing directives, where the situation is a little more complex, but the spirit of the directive must be passed on. I hope that I have explained why I am against this proposal in a sufficiently reasoned and ideological manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u83	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u84	Mrs Murgel, I am not avoiding the use of names, because I think otherwise our parliamentary debates are too sterile. I'm for talking to each other, not passing each other. If there may be such a practice in the courts as not to use names, not to offend me, I do not want anything bad; but I use names to know exactly who I am speaking to or who I am dealing with. This is part of parliamentary practice. However, I am grateful for your discussion, because at least one part of you were very honest. I hope that my colleague Kordish here has heard you say that you absolutely hold that security standards are not diminishing – and I am grateful for that – but in some ways the standards of responsibility may be reduced. In this part you have been extremely correct and I hope that your colleagues on this left have also heard you. Once again, safety standards are not falling, as noted by colleague Murgel. This does not mean that any rules of protection at work will change as a result of this law. This does not mean that if someone has to retire because of a disability injury, this law would result in a minor disability pension or a shorter period of time. That doesn't mean that this law doesn't bring it. That's what colleague Murgel found out correctly. The fact is that the standards of responsibility are changing. I don't deny it. However, I hope that you too recognise that we are in line with the standards of responsibility that apply in Europe, or at least with the standards that apply in Germany and Austria. You made a little mockery of it, though, since we did it in three articles. We have dealt with this law in depth, and the parliamentary research department has also helped us with our research task in these matters, so that it was not a superficial work, but we have taken it seriously. I do not want to underestimate anything, just as I have heard from my colleague Murgel today, a fair word that she has admitted that we are not reducing safety standards, that someone should read a fair comparative review between countries and say that what we want to enforce with this law is what employers in Germany and Austria today have. There's only so much honesty I'd like. Even if you refuse this marriage, I will think of my own. However, it is certainly one good thing to discuss today's debate about the economy, our business environment and that it is not the main debate on partisans and patriots.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u85	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor and then it is time for concluding words.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The first rule of a high culture of entrepreneurship is respect for the fundamentals of labour rights, labour law and the creation of an entrepreneurial environment which will promote the potentials of a collective within the company and represent them. And here I cannot agree with the correction of Comrade Kordiša, who said that the added value was only in the workers' domain. I think that the added value comes mainly from some synergy between workers and employers. And since I believe that in this process the worker and the employer are equally valued for their work, it is also right that they both feel equally safe within the collective. This is not just my position, this is the position of the entire Group of the Modern Centre Party, so condemning the Members of the Modern Centre Party that we are in fact against entrepreneurship, because we are opposed to the proposal of the proposer, it seems completely unacceptable to me. In its explanation, the applicant describes the employer’s liability for certain bankruptcys, closures of espions and the like; because too high indemnity amounts would cause them to be forced into insolvency or indemnity amounts, etc. The proposer considers that, as a result of this, one amendment to the article, which has transformed the word relationship "great negligence" into "normal negligence", and that this adjective "great" is the main culprit for some general closure of espionage, the abolition of some companies; this is completely incorrect and inaccurate. In fact, it is funny that the proposaler has so much to do with the word relationship or the interpretation of negligence. The format of the fault has already been established in accordance with Article 135 of the Bond Code, which requires the injured party to demonstrate that he has acted with particular care in his conduct to which some damage was caused. It is assumed that the causer is guilty until he proves that the damage was done without his fault; assuming that the form of guilt is only easier, that is, mere negligence or negligence, if you will. As it is said, therefore, it is not an essential interpretation of negligence, whether it is intentionally, unintentionally, of any negligence; rather, it is an essential question whether the cause of the injury has been handled in accordance with the necessary care to prevent, to the greatest extent possible, the occurrence of the injury itself. As the practice has shown in the past that it has been extremely difficult to prove great negligence, and so the lack of the possibility of applying compensation claims to employers, there has been a legal change that has regulated the area in which a simple worker or employer has to assume responsibility for establishing a quality working environment. The employer has all the legal grounds for doing so, and he also has the possibility of internal acts allowing him to discipline or dictate within a collective some way of doing what the worker must do. When we are talking about some rules, some standards, we are talking about some of the minimum standards that the employer has to provide; we cannot, therefore, talk in any way about various forms of negligence or infringements. Similarly, safety and health regulations do not allow or specify which standards have priority over certain other standards. This means that all standards are equally important to each other, which is the only right thing to do, since we are finally talking about the lives of workers. With all the stories we have witnessed in the past, in the short time that have come to the surface, when it turns out that some companies, including colleagues of Škoberna, such as Gorenje, which provide a suitable working environment, also exist in Slovenia, companies we find it difficult to call companies – they would rather be criminal associations that operate in a very vulgar way. And at a time when politics must establish and raise awareness of the entrepreneurial public in a way that is necessary to promote a quality environment, such proposals are extremely inappropriate at the moment. The applicant knows very well that the applications from the institution are not printed as under the current tape, that they are a matter of some kind of judicial protocol, as already stated by colleague Murgel, when the employer, the worker and all possible witnesses are questioned and evidence is also proposed in these trials by putting an expert on the job. In this context, it is particularly important to note when the liability for damage on the part of the worker is already not liable for compensation after the current regulation. As colleague Murgel has already said, if there is no causal link, then this compensation claim is not on the employer's side. With time ahead of me, I would like to add a brief comment to determine the maximum and lowest possible amount of compensation. This has also been explained by a colleague from Desus that we now have the highest 50-fold compensation claim. This was also confirmed by representatives of employers at the Board Assembly of the Institute in 2000. I welcome that, even though they were offered a lower one at that time, that's a 30-folder, that's a lower number. I welcome this because, when they agreed to this, they also agreed that they as employers have an important role and responsibility to create a quality and secure working environment. In fact, I do not understand the proposal at this time by the New Slovenia Group. I think that the current regime does not present any particular burden for offenders that would lead to such a deterioration in social security in order to endanger more people, businesses or even worse to make business worse. That is why I cannot support this proposal, especially because this proposal can also be read in a certain context as a proposal to speed up the commercial offer of insurance companies on the workers' shoulders, as well as because I do not agree, or as a policy, to agree to a discourse that wrongly convinces the public that the applicable rules in the field of safety and health at work threaten business operators. This is simply inappropriate and I cannot support this proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u87	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At the end of this debate, instead of commenting – because I think they were really huge in today's debate, this also shows that this is an important issue – I would rather give some explanations. There are two key amendments to this bill. The first is the limitation of compensation, even if the injury occurs with a causal link of intent or severe negligence. Mr Tonin referred to arrangements in other countries to make this a comparable European regime. I read the bill, page 4, to help you, display regulation in other legal systems, Austria, paragraph 4, you probably read: "The law does not specify the maximum amount of the regression claim." That's how it is in Austria. In our country, you propose to limit this regression claim. Mrs Dimic said, "This would require social dialogue, a debate on the Economic and Social Council." Absolutely, I agree. Three times the Economic and Social Council discussed this initiative of the Chamber of Commerce; it did not reach agreement, but not only with the government and representatives of employees, with representatives of other employers. Today we have heard from Mrs Jenko when the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance was being discussed, or whether the amount should be limited; others, the larger employers, have proposed that this amount remain higher for the individual. Why? Because every leave you give to one of the interest groups has to be paid by someone else. Here today I have not received an answer to the question, I do not think the debate has given it if we limit the amount of compensation, who will cover the difference. If you say, a pension institution, it doesn't mean a pension institution; it means we who pay the contributions, and employers who pay the contributions. Remember, the compensation is a financial compensation for the actual damage suffered, which is determined in a fair proceeding. I think it's very important that you point out one case, the worker doesn't have a helmet on his head, even though the employer gave it to him. First, I would like to emphasise, in this case, if harm were to occur, a causal link would be sought and the liability or co-contribution of the injured person would be sought in a regular judicial procedure. And that's what happens in practice. Even in the case referred to by the Chamber of Commerce, the Court found the contribution of the insured, but I think that Mrs Murgel has explained this very precisely. These are general principles of bond law. A contribution of 0.53% was mentioned; it is paid by employers for injuries at work and occupational diseases. This contribution does not go to the pension fund. This contribution goes to the health treasury, and today we are talking about the pension fund, not to forget. You say that it is not true that the bill reduces the level of safety and health at work. And we're going back to the international comparative and European theory and the OECD theory. One of the key moments that forces employers to invest in safe and healthy work to take care of the safety and health of their employees is the potential compensation responsibility if something happens to the worker. In our legal system, we know only compensation in the amount of actual damage. For example, in the United States they have a system of criminal compensation, which is why you will see any company you come to – the first thing is no injury. On the one hand, because they care for workers, on the other hand, because they are so afraid of damages. If we give us advance leave regardless of whether you set up, caricature, facade stage, whether or not you even get helmets, if the damage happens, you give 20 thousand euros, and that's it. Do you have any idea what we're doing with this?Oh, my God! And it's not about the health insurance money, it's about the worker who's gonna get hurt, not forget it. Our assessment, the Government's opinion, that the adoption of such a proposal – and also in the Economic and Social Council – is the chairman of the Medical Institute of Medicine has made this clear – such a proposal reduces the level of health at work. For this reason, once again, I repeat the Government's position, we propose to Members and Members that they do not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u89	The text is also given by the representative of the Magi's proposer. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u90	Behind the introductory words, I cannot agree with the lowering of the standard of security. And here I agree with my colleague Murgel. The Secretary of State is well aware of the legislation and knows that these problems arose at the time when we deleted the word "big" from the ZPIZ. ZPIZ-1 stated that these regression claims are possible when it comes to a case of gross negligence; and practically there were no problems in the system. Then came the ZPIZ-2, where the word "big" was deleted and there was only the word "malarity". And from here on out, problems have begun. And once again, we defend the responsibility of employers if they have contributed in their work to the injury of a worker. Of course, this responsibility must somehow be stepped up. There is a greater penalty for this employer than this negligence. While the Secretary of State correctly found that the money that employers pay – 0.53% to go to the health register; but the problem is connected – is common, we are the same country. And in the case of a worker's injury, it's a case of treatment, and that's a health deposit problem, but if the injury is so severe that this worker has to retire because of the injury, then this is where the pension fund problem arises. However, these matters can also be arranged differently that part of this money, which goes fully into the health care department today, is also used in cases of damage to workers for certain payments from the pension register. And another thing that you're all too forgetting today is that it's a first, general treatment. All these minis, the detailed comments you have had, could also be taken into account in further consideration, for example in the second reading, in accordance with your wishes and thoughts. But, you know, there is a very strong and firm practice in this House, if some laws are proposed by the opposition, then it is extremely unlikely that they will see the light of the world. But perhaps certain tensions in this House, and even in this country, would be burdened if the government coalition acted slightly differently and sometimes went against some law against the opposition. There'd be a lot of tension to relieve. I will conclude by saying that we want to make our environment so that everyone in it will feel safe, workers and even employers, that they will not be afraid of every new day, but that they will be able to do what they have decided to do in life in a normal, relaxed way; and that they will be as successful as possible in doing so. The more successful they are, the more successful this country will be. And that's the concept we want to follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u91	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? You still want to. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for the Magi Act. Matthew Tonin and the government representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each report has five minutes. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I was reported for a regular discussion and, unfortunately, due to foreign policy obligations, I was unable to attend the debate. So now I'd like to take a few thoughts. Firstly, I regret that we have this situation in this mandate, perhaps even for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, that the coalition has virtually continued to reject and reject all the opposition's proposals. I could also list a number of amendments to the budgets and so on. I don't remember how long I've been in this house to deal with the opposition. That's bad. You say, let's work together, we say, of course, because we cooperate; but sometimes, even if with your teeth clenched, admit that some kind of proposal is also good, including some budget amendment for some 10,000 euros. But you said no. When the right coalition was largely a long time ago, we had the case that the opposition also supported the budget. At that time we said – wow, for the first time in the history of Slovenia. But this is only at the point of introduction. With the proposed law, some or most of the coalitions did not simply want to understand that we do not lower safety standards in the workplace. Thank you, Dr. Murgel, who has publicly admitted that she does not see this in our proposal for a law to reduce security standards. Well, at least one. Of course, we are in favour of the fact that the employer in the field of safety and health at work must have everything that is required by positive regulations and more. Why do I say more? Because every day we face some new technology, regulation, and our rules for technology development are not being followed. What am I talking about? It may be necessary to write about a laboratory, not just for a health - care facility, but also for a production hall — a mobile phone ban. For such and other reasons. And we are in favour of the employer having a safety statement drawn up with a risk assessment. We are in favour of having the worker undergo a prior and similar medical examination. We're for the employee to be tested for protection at work. We are not even thinking that this is at the expense of the employer, of course, because he is a true employer. And I am sure that in Slovenia there is only a large majority of true, honest employers; those who say – workers are my biggest capital – are the largest capital of our company and my company. We've been walking in the field, and we've had thirty-five visits in the last three years. We visit mainly businesses, family, family farms and so on. And all we are doing with the bill proposals at this meeting of the National Assembly is to give more opportunities to create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need them bloody. And I repeat, today, not only companies are competing with each other, just corporations; today, when we live in a global village, today, countries are competing with each other. And it is therefore the countries that create a competitive environment. States. We have therefore made an international comparison and looked at the arrangements in more competitive countries. Where are we already on the competitiveness charts? What does the European Commission tell us? Where are structural reforms, ladies and gentlemen, that would also increase Slovenian competitiveness? That's what this is about. This is our effort, which we wanted to present to you and expected you to support in the first reading, and then in the second reading, we will improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u93	I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law amending and supplementing the law on public cantonment, survival and invalidity in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-one Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Marijan Pojbic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u94	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The Act on the Guarantee Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No 25/97, which originally regulated the Institute of Guarantee of Minimum Workers' Rights in the event of insolvency of the employer by special purpose for this established Guarantee Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, was subsequently amended and amended several times. In 1999, the Fund's powers also extended to the protection of children's rights to compensation for unpaid maintenance and the Fund was renamed the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The right of children to survive is among the fundamental rights of children. Rights are also governed by international instruments. The Declaration on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations General Assembly of 1959 provides in principle 6 that society and the authorities must take special care of children without family and without the means of survival. Since dependants in some cases successfully avoid fulfilling their obligations, enforcement procedures are often unsuccessful and long-lasting. For many years, the Fund has identified the issue of the recovery of the maintenance fund's debtors. The fact is that, according to 2015 data, legal recovery by law and enforcement and insurance in Slovenia is also unsuccessful, ineffective, long-term and cost-effective. We have therefore decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend the law in question. With the proposed amendment, the judicial recovery of the debtors of the maintenance fund is transferred to the so-called administrative financial recovery, which is already carried out by Furs for the disability fund in an exemplary, excellent, simple, fast, efficient and cost-effective manner, as well as for other direct and indirect budgetary users of the state budget, direct and indirect users of local communities, municipalities, chambers and other entities. In this way, the human resources and, above all, financial burdens will be imposed on the courts, which, following the current legislation, must pay the high costs of a total of more than EUR 100 000, which will have a positive impact on the budget of the courts and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the administrative recovery under the FURS is extremely successful, extremely efficient and very fast. Furs is extremely successful, extremely efficient and very fast to perform administrative recovery through Furs, resulting in a larger volume of resources recovered for the budget. The transfer of recovery from recovery to administrative recovery via Furs will, among other things, save the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for more than half a million euros per year. The most important acquisition of the bill is that the Fund will need less resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the programme, or it will be able to deal more quickly and more fully with the Western and Unpaid Maintenance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u95	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered the proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia at its regular meeting and adopted the following views. The draft law, tabled by the Group of Members and Members, confers on the Management Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Disability Fund and other entities the judicial recovery of the maintenance fund's claims for administrative financial recovery. The Government points out in this recital that the comparison of the recovery of the maintenance part of the fund with the recovery of the disability portion of the fund carried out by the Financial Administration is not appropriate, since the procedures relating to the disability part of the fund are not comparable to those relating to the maintenance part of the fund. One of the important and essential differences is that in cases relating to the disability part of the fund, recovery is made against legal persons; in proceedings relating to the maintenance part of the fund recovery is made against natural persons. Maintenance claims do not originate as a debt to the State. Claims arise from the payment of the maintenance allowance; they are primarily linked to the existence of a maintenance obligation, i.e. civil liability. First, the maintenance must be determined when default occurs, reach out to the fund and then demand further. The assets of the Fund in this part are therefore civil claims in nature for maintenance payments that have been transferred to the subrogation fund when the fund recovers part of the maintenance to the beneficiary instead of the debtor. Furthermore, the argument that the recovery of the maintenance part of the Fund is extremely unsuccessful, ineffective, long-term and cost-effective and should therefore be replaced by an administrative financial recovery which is simple, fast, effective, in the event of recovery of maintenance claims in the view of the Government is not convincing. The amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance has made maintenance claims a priority, which means that they have priority over all public law payments, according to tax, all other civil law claims. In addition, the Law on Enforcement provides that, as a result of recovery of maintenance claims, it is possible to reduce it to the debtor's salary and other fixed remuneration in such a way that only 50% of the gross minimum wage remains. This is more than €200 than it has to remain with ordinary debtors. It should also be pointed out that, within the framework of the working group to set up a proposal for a more efficient management of the State's claims in case of misdemeanour claims, the possibility of centralised management of the State's claims is being explored. The task of the working group is to prepare a proposal for more efficient management of the claims of the State decided by the courts, including the indication of the necessary normative institutional and operational measures and an assessment of the necessary costs. It is therefore necessary to wait for the conclusions of the newly established working group to decide on the proposal of this working group, which will consider the possibility of setting up a body to manage the country's claims more effectively; not just one part. The Working Group is expected to conclude by the end of June. At the same time, we would like to point out that the Government has submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a law linking the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Personnel and Grants to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund. This ensures the rationalisation of work and the simplification of public administration procedures and processes. However, on the basis of all these facts, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to Members and Members that they do not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u98	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At first glance, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors is welcome, and also in the Desus Group we have originally considered in the direction of supporting the proposal. After taking note of the details of the individual types of claims and recovery rules, in particular regarding the content of the operation and the powers of the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, we have been able to take a closer look at the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in the Desus Group, we find that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is more or less flat-rate because it does not show all the facts. Comparing the recovery of the maintenance part of the fund with the recovery of the disability portion of the fund, which, as proposed by the applicants, is not adequate, exemplary, excellent, fast, efficient and cost-effective; since the procedures relating to the disability part of the fund are not comparable to those relating to the maintenance part of the fund. Furthermore, the argument that the recovery of maintenance fund debtors is extremely unsuccessful, ineffective, long-term and cost-effective and that it should be replaced by an administrative financial recovery that is not easily, quickly, efficiently and without unnecessary costs carried out by the Financial Administration is not convincing in the event of recovery of maintenance claims. There are several important differences between the claims and the resulting recovery process, according to the content of the various, in the Fund's activities, which can be seen from the nature of the Fund's competence, which are divided into several activities. The current activities of the Fund are: ensuring the rights of workers in cases of bankruptcy or forcible settlement. In this case, we are talking about the operation of the Guarantee Fund. Ensuring the exercise of the right to a maintenance allowance for those children who are provided with a legal order, a temporary order or an arrangement at the Centre for Social Work; however, the dependents do not pay. In this case, we are talking about the operation of the trust fund. And deciding on the rights and obligations of persons with disabilities and employers in accordance with the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act and the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities Act. In this case, we are talking about the functioning of the disability fund. One of the important differences between the areas of maintenance and the competences of the operation of the fund in the disability area is that in cases relating to the disability part of the fund, recovery is made against legal persons; in procedures relating to the maintenance part of the fund recovery is made against natural persons. In the first case, it is the area of the exercise of rights and obligations under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act and the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, which is decided by the legal authorities; it is therefore an administrative matter. The claims here arise as a debt to the State, and therefore this is a public-government claim in which recovery is governed by an administrative procedure or by a tax enforcement procedure. Maintenance claims, however, are civil claims in which the fund enters instead of the creditor, that is, the child up to the amount of the funds paid on the basis of the maintenance refund decision. The courts are responsible for the recovery because of civil executions. Therefore, instead of a debtor, the fund recovers part of the maintenance to the maintenance beneficiary and the court has to recover that part from the maintenance debtor. It is also important that maintenance claims are preferred in terms of public claims and also in relation to all other civil law claims. They are also privileged according to the extent to which the amounts of the debtor's financial assets or income can be cut down by enforcement, since we can reach out to a higher extent than those proposed by the proposed law. In view of this fact, which is commanded by the applicable legislation under the Enforcement and Insurance Act, we must conclude that maintenance claims in judicial enforcement are easier to recover than in tax enforcement; of course, if the debtor receives regular monthly benefits. But it is true that problems arise if the debtor does not receive such funds. Normally, in such cases, the creditor shall propose the following execution to the debtor's movable or immovable property if the debtor has it. In any event, enforcement is the jurisdiction of the court; even if the tax enforcement has not been successful and the debtor has real estate, the district court is responsible for the enforcement of the property. In these extreme cases, nothing would change for maintenance executions even when transferred to Furs. It is true, however, that in these cases enforcement is somewhat problematic when it comes to interference with a moving or immovable matter. On the one hand, because we know how the debtors are nowadays resourceful; on the other hand, it is important to note the high costs of execution which otherwise burden the courts. The Ministry of Justice has drawn attention to the Fund's recovery policy. We are aware that the Fund insists on the implementation of the debtor's movements and on the proposals of the Fund for new margins of movement despite the obvious fact that they will be unsuccessful. The Fund offers unlimited and often proposals to the judicial enforcement authorities to carry out new attempts at ruble, although all previous failures were, of course, unsuccessful and higher recovery costs. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we agree that it would be advisable to overturn the rules on recovery in this area. In view of the said, Members of Parliament and Members of Desus, we will not turn on the green light for the continuation of this legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u100	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on guarantee, maintenance and disability, submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, states that the recovery of the maintenance fund's claims shall be transferred to an administrative financial recovery which, according to the proposaler, is carried out by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia without problems or unnecessary costs. According to some estimates of the applicant, staff and financial savings from year to year are expected to be higher than half a million euros. The comparison provided by the bill-maker is by no means appropriate as the procedures relating to the disability part of the fund are not comparable to those relating to the maintenance part of the fund. It is clear when we are talking about procedures relating to the first, we are talking about recovery against the legal person; in another case, in the case of the maintenance fund, we are talking about recovery against the physical person. Claims affecting the maintenance part of the Fund do not arise as a debt of the State, but rather as civil relations. These claims are therefore subject to the jurisdiction of the court; those claims in the tax enforcement procedure are recovered as public benefits. Furthermore, the claim that the legal recovery related to maintenance work is unsuccessful and should be replaced by administrative recovery is not the most convincing. With the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, maintenance claims have become a priority, which means that they have priority over all public and civil claims. Moreover, as a result of recovery of maintenance claims, it can also be deducted from the debtor's salary and other fixed earnings, leaving 50 % of the gross minimum wage on the basis of the rubble, which is around EUR 400, which is more than EUR 200 than the debtor has to remain in recovery of normal claims in court enforcement or in recovery of claims under the Tax Procedure Act. According to Article 160(1) of the Tax Procedure Act, the minimum amount protected must remain set to the debtor at the same level as the Enforcement and Insurance Act provides for the recovery of ordinary claims. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand the intention of the applicants, but we cannot support their proposal for substantive and procedural reasons. For the government has tabled its proposal for the amendment of the same law in the parliamentary procedure, which, in our view, brings a much more feasible and well-founded solution, but which cannot be considered and adopted until the process of the proposal, which we are discussing today, is completed. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, chairman. The basic starting point of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to recover the debtors of the maintenance fund instead of recovery in a judicial enforcement procedure is good through the so-called recovery under the Tax Procedure Act. From this point of view, in the United Left, it seems to us that a proposal is suitable for further consideration, through which it can then be complemented and added. However, there is still a long way from the idea to the realization of the road, and a serious scepticism still needs to be expressed before the bill is proposed. A number of aspects need to be taken into account that make it more effective and easier to fulfil the right to survival. Comparing the recovery of the maintenance part of the fund with the recovery of the disability portion of the fund implemented by Furs is not entirely appropriate. Procedures relating to the disability part of the fund shall not be the same as those carried out in the maintenance part of the fund. In the first case, recovery is against legal persons and in the second case recovery is against natural persons. The claims of the maintenance part of the fund are not originally due to the country, for these claims are linked to the existence of a maintenance obligation, which is a civil liability. The fund is a person of public law who pays children maintenance expenses that a maintenance debtor would otherwise have to pay if they are fulfilled in the law. The recovery of civil claims is subject to the jurisdiction of the courts, while the tax enforcement procedure recovers public taxes, i.e. taxes and contributions. It should also be noted that maintenance claims from the amendment of the law in enforcement and insurance are privileged and therefore in court enforcement are easier to recover than in tax enforcement, of course if the debtor receives regular monthly benefits. These are important concerns, but in the light of the problem in the United Left, we believe that the simplification proposed by the proposal today could contribute to improving the situation in this area. We know that there are major difficulties in paying for maintenance payments, so that those in a better financial position are more likely to avoid paying. About 45,000 children are eligible for maintenance, and the fund covers about 4 thousand dependents a month. The fund has 41% success in recovery. In any event, the State must intervene in cases where the parents do not fulfil the obligation to support the child. Finally, it is the basic social stability of a child, which is often not contributed by those who are able to do so, but are deliberately avoiding this obligation. From this point of view, a simplification of the recovery procedure makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u104	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has three main tasks. Firstly, the granting of rights to workers whose employment has ceased due to the insolvency of their employer or the removal of the employer from the register. Secondly, the granting of rights to children belonging to certain dependents and dependents is not paid. And thirdly, providing, meeting the quota of disabled persons employed, deciding on the rights of disabled persons and the obligations of employers. The Fund, according to the proposaler of the amendment, has for a number of years identified the issue of the recovery of debtors of the maintenance fund. The recovery under the Enforcement and Insurance Act is extremely unsuccessful, ineffective, long-term and cost-effective in Slovenia. The same conclusion is found in the reports of the Doing Business World Bank for 2015. This fact is also noted by the European Commission in its third review of the state of justice for Slovenia. With the proposed amendment, the judicial recovery of the debtors of the maintenance fund is transferred to administrative financial recovery, which is exemplary, excellent, easy, fast and cost-effective and without unnecessary costs, already implemented by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the disability fund and also for other direct and indirect budgetary users of the state budget, direct and indirect budgetary users of local communities, municipalities, chambers and other entities. In this way, the human resources and, above all, financial burdens will be imposed on the courts which, following the current legislation, have to pay the costs of a total of more than EUR 100,000, which will have a very positive impact on the budget of the courts and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the administrative recovery carried out by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is extremely successful, extremely efficient and very fast. It is reasonable, understandable and effective that the fund has a unified administrative recovery through the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the maintenance fund as well. As a result, there will also be a greater volume of funds spent on the Fund's budget and, as a result, the Fund will need less resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to implement the programme. By transferring from legal recovery to administrative recovery through the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, savings, staff and financial resources will be saved for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the proposer, every year more than half a million euros. For all of this, the New Slovenia Group – the Christian Democrats – will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u106	In fact, we have before us a proposal that is really very attractive at first sight. In particular, because it has in some way communicated that it could facilitate certain procedures that are very important, particularly for those who need these funds when it comes to child survival. However, if we carefully read the proposal by the proposer, we can see that there is quite a discrepancy with what they are actually proposing. At the outset, I must say that the proposal in some parts is even inaccurate. Especially when we're talking about financial implications. There are financial implications in any case where there is a transfer of certain powers to the indirect budgetary user. But it's true that they didn't even know how to calculate their income. That's the part of the means you would have saved. They're talking about over half a million, but they don't tell us where and what items. In addition, the international comparison is very nice when, in fact, they illustrate in some way with the case of Germany, Sweden and Austria that it is actually a category that is protected and in any case it is a type of recovery, but they do not say who recovers in this country. So, in fact, even the international comparison doesn't do us any good. Let me mention that one comparison, where they speak of the so-called law on the basis of these quotas, is the invalid quota, where we actually employ workers in companies and there are certain facilities for similar recovery and that in some way we could do this recovery in the same way. As the Secretary of State has already said, there are two different comparisons. In one case, it is civil law and in the other case, it is legal persons based on law. True, the dependants also have their own legal basis, but in any case it is a recovery. But once in court, once through Furs. We ourselves estimate that it is not a problem in the recovery method itself, but the problem is mainly the availability of the claim itself. Therefore, the question arises whether the fund actually does its work well on the basis of its substantive requirements, if only forty - four recovers them, or whether there may be a reason elsewhere. The proposal itself, as proposed, does not stand for serious consideration. However, in any case, this may be a serious consideration for the purposes of advance, as this is not only a problem with this request proposed by the applicant. In particular, municipalities, local communities and other indirect budgetary users want similar recovery through Furs, and in the country we will have to decide once and for all whether Furs, according to the domestic tax administration, will actually recover all claims in that country, which have at least a minimum legal basis, whether it is civil law or some kind of relationship within the country, or whether we will settle it in any other way. In particular, it is a system regime which requires a clear position by the State and also a proposal on how and how this is regulated. We will not support the modern centre of such a proposal, which cannot be seriously addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! The Law on the Guarantee Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which initially regulated and regulated the guarantee of minimum workers' rights in the event of insolvency of the employer by special purpose for this established guarantee fund of the Republic of Slovenia, was subsequently amended and amended several times. Amendments and additions were needed to harmonise with the amended Directive in this area and to coordinate with other domestic legislation related to employers' insolvency and public funds regulation. In addition, the Fund’s third novelty in 1999 extended to the protection of children’s rights to compensation for unpaid maintenance. Thus, the applicable law on the public guarantee and maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia regulates the functioning of the guarantee institution, the conditions and the content of rights and is fully in line with the provisions of the original Council of the European Union in the case of insolvency. The right of children to survive is among the fundamental rights of children. The law is also governed by international documents, the Declaration on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations General Assembly of 1959 in Article 6 provides that companies and authorities must take special care of children without family and without the means necessary for survival. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also provides, inter alia, that States Parties shall recognise to each child the right to a standard of living which corresponds to its physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development. One or both of the parents or others responsible for the child shall have the primary responsibility to ensure, in accordance with their capacities and material capacity, the living conditions necessary for the child’s development. The States Parties shall take appropriate measures, in accordance with national conditions and their capabilities, to assist parents or others responsible for the child to exercise this right and, if necessary, to provide material assistance and assistance programmes, in particular with regard to nutrition, clothing and housing. Payment and recovery of maintenance claims where the maintenance beneficiary and the maintenance debtor reside in different signatory countries is governed by the Convention on the Enforcement of Maintenance Claims abroad, which was concluded in 1956. The proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party follows the principles of rationalisation, optimization, simplification and reduction of procedures, economy and savings in public finances and in the use of public means of efficiency and proportionality. For many years, the Fund has identified the issue of the recovery of the maintenance fund's debtors. The fact is that, according to 2015 data, judicial recovery under the Enforcement and Insurance Act is extremely unsuccessful, inefficient, long-term and cost-effective in Slovenia. According to data and reports from the Doing Business of the World Bank for 2015, the recovery in Slovenia is unsuccessful and ineffective. The European Commission also notes in its third judicial review of the situation for the Republic of Slovenia. With the proposed amendment that we want to achieve in the SDS, the judicial recovery of the debtors of the maintenance fund is transferred to the administration, financial recovery, which is exemplary, excellent, simple, fast, efficient and without unnecessary costs, is already carried out by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the disability fund and also for other direct and indirect budgetary users of the state budget, direct and indirect budgetary users of local communities, municipalities, chambers and others, as we have heard before, legal entities. This will result in a human resources and, above all, financial burden on the courts, which, following the current legislation, have to pay the costs of a total of more than 100,000 euros for judicial enforcement, which will have a positive impact on the budget of the courts and consequently on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the administrative recovery made by Furs is extremely successful, extremely effective and, most importantly, it is also very fast. Furs is extremely successful, extremely efficient and very fast to perform administrative recovery for the disability fund as well. Therefore, it is also reasonable, logical and effective that the fund has a uniform and also administrative recovery for the maintenance fund through the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, more resources will be recovered for the Fund's budget and the Fund will also need less resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to implement this programme. By transferring recovery from judicial recovery to administrative recovery through Furs, every year more than half a million euros will be saved for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This law therefore proposes that the recovery of the debtors of the maintenance fund, instead of recovery after the present enforcement procedure, be made through the so-called administrative recovery already carried out by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. recovery for the disability fund. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, compared to what we now have, is more rational, more efficient and also for the Court's budget and for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, more specifically, for around half a million euros a year. Since we already have similar cases in the disability fund, despite the fact that they are legal persons, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this would ensure that these funds are paid more and more quickly. I will continue to do so further when I present certain letters from the Supreme Court sent to the ministers of finance and justice, where the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia also acknowledges that such a system as we know it now is not appropriate in these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First, I must express my disappointment again. Everything we are proposing in the SDS and New Slovenia is considered to be poorly prepared, it is not acceptable, it is obvious that we do not know anything, that only a vast majority in all other parties to the coalition and the government, and that the solutions proposed by such or other laws are not acceptable. On the part of the government, we are constantly listening to them set up groups that will study this thing, study the next thing, study the tenth thing, and finally wait for those groups that they are setting up to study, and I don't know when they will bring a solution to this government that still has, I think, by the end of their existence for a year or maybe two years. That's already the upper limit of my judgment. Therefore, I must say that I am very sad that the solutions we want to improve the situation in certain areas, such as what we are talking about today, for the government and coalition is something they do not want because they will soon propose their new, better quality solutions. We hear the same story over and over again from week to week. When we propose a quality solution, it is not because the SDS and Nova Slovenije have proposed this, if you do, "we are preparing our own, which will certainly be better". Because you're a giant. And we are what we are. That doesn't seem right to me, it doesn't seem fair, it seems less responsible. If we propose a legal solution, the government has all the resources in its hands, all the expertise and the rest of the public, that the proposals we propose improve and upgrade them to the point that they will be acceptable to all who are sitting in this national assembly, as well as to the government. But no. No, no, and no. And the key is to reject everything we propose. That's the key. No matter the content, no matter the content. When I listen to these debates of various parliamentary groups, I do not speak of all but I do not speak of all individuals, but in most cases they say very casually that it is not appropriate to say that there is not enough of these international comparisons and so on that I will not explain. With this law, we really want to solve the problem that I have already presented in my opening address and also Jean when he was representing the position of the Group of Members. And once again, I'm going to read some things where there's still some important data, why we actually proposed this change. According to data from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, in the Republic of Slovenia the maintenance rate is estimated at around 45 000 minors. The Public Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, while each month the payment of maintenance allowances is approximately 4 000 children. Since dependants in some cases successfully avoid fulfilling their obligations, enforcement procedures are often unsuccessful and long-lasting. Payment of the maintenance allowance increases the social security of certain children. The Public Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall recover the funds paid from the maintenance debtor in the enforcement proceedings under the law governing enforcement and insurance. According to the data of the Republic of Slovenia’s Public Guarantee Fund and the Disabled Fund, it achieved a 41% recovery rate in 2014. 41% success. What does that mean? This means that some things don't work. The purpose of this law is to change this situation. And we turn it into the benefit of that fund that pays 4 grand or 5 grand a month's maintenance. There is no problem if this Ministry of Labour and Family writes that such data exist, but the Government should imagine whether the situation in which it is now a matter is, something is wrong, or whether it is looking for different, new, better solutions, as we have proposed by amending this law. But no, despite the fact that the data speaks very clearly. And beyond that, no one can go on 41%. It follows that the simple model used here does not work. It doesn't work because otherwise 80, 85, 95% would be realised, not 41. Always so much and so much money from the budget goes into this fund because it's not recovered. And if we propose an appropriate solution, which I think is appropriate and enforceable, the government and the coalition are looking for within a thousand and one reasons why this is not right, why this is not the right way. If this were to be an SD, there would be no problem, the superlatives would say how good it is, how fantastic it is, how we achieve all those parameters, goals, all those international practices, everything counts from A to Z. This would be heard today by all those who represented the views of the groups of Members. We'd listen to the same thing from the government. But since the SDS proposed this and supported New Slovenia, it is blasphemous, it is something that is unacceptable for this red coalition. And that's wrong. We're obviously talking, but we can't hear each other. I would be very pleased to hear from at least one of the coalition's parliamentary groups that would argue that this law should be upgraded, that we will support it in the first reading and that we will prepare an appropriate legal story to cover all the interests of our politicians, especially those to whom it is intended. If I had heard that once, I would not have this feeling that I have over and over again when we are discussing the proposals that we or New Slovenia are proposing. Unbelievable, well, truly amazing! I don't know what else to do in the Slovenian Democratic Party to make you the one sitting on the other side, even though this is, I'll say, amazing. I am simply convinced that we are all sitting in the same National Assembly, and our common goal must be to work in the interests of all people and to solve their problems. And this problem is recorded, it's clear, but obviously we don't want to go after it. We don't want to. If the government coalition wanted this, once again, I would like to say that this document that we have proposed could be upgraded. And we would resolve this issue forever in a way that is suitable, which is significantly better, with substantially lower costs, significantly higher savings in the state budget. Much less work would have been carried out by the judiciary in order to shorten these judicial backlogs. Nothing. No, no, no, no! You can't hear us. You don't want to hear us. I don't know how many times I'm gonna have to do this for this pay phone so we can start listening here. And not at any cost to reject everything we put on the table. Not at any cost! Whether it's a very well-prepared matter or as well-prepared as it is. I am sure that we in the Slovenian Democratic Party do not propose marriage solutions that are bad, weak or harmful. I'm sure of that. However, the problem is in the coalition and the government that, due to such and different connections, certain problems do not arise in the way that they would be expected and are expected from the coalition and government of voters and voters. I therefore suggest that the coalition and the government think carefully today, but we may only find a common language and we vote in this first reading and then upgrade it together in the second and third readings, so that this problem, which we are talking about here today, will be properly addressed and resolved in favour of one side of the state budget, the fund and we will not have to solve problems where the solutions are simply 41% implemented. I think that's extremely bad and very wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u112	In those days when our discussions were held in the National Assembly, and last week when we had parliamentary questions, the Minister of Labour, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, stressed, "give solutions, come with solutions, we will listen, together we will look for solutions". These days we have been coming all the time with solutions, simple solutions, only the political will is needed to solve things, but we are always hearing how something cannot be done because of something. Even though it's a matter of fact, if it were legal, I'd run it on my own. If it is a glass on the provision of rights through the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not know why it would not also be a glass for the provision of rights to the weakest in our country, and these are children and their livelihoods. If our courts are overloaded, they're working too slowly and there's an ever-increasing tribulation. I know a lot of people who said that it took a year and a half to get to maintenance, even on the way to court, and the ex-husband was busy, and everything worked out fine, but it was easy if he didn't come along or, if not all the papers went straight away, the simple thing about maintenance didn't come up and the kids were deprived of not saying what kind of psychological and physical violence their mother was getting. If things were to be simplified to make things easier to follow some stable and faster procedures, I think that everyone would be cut short for such and other attacks on children, for the survival of a woman and so on. And then you could say that we actually have a safe, legal, social state. But since we know what law is like in our country, I think it's wrong and it's not the right solution. I've already mentioned what happens when there's a situation in the family that falls apart for such a different reason, and then there's a threat, a leak, and I don't know what else. Last but not least, there is domestic violence, and it seems to me that children are the most affected in all of this. I have to say, today I have this opportunity, because the entire ministry here has been touched by today's message that, because of the violence when the child lost his mother, the social work center came to kindergarten and took the child away because the old parents are supposed to be too old. I mean, let's do this one more time and let's get things sorted out here. Is 56 years old mother too old to have a child from a deceased daughter and father is in custody? I know you're going to interrupt me now, but I have to say this because we're going to one of these extremes and we don't understand that we need to speed up the maintenance. Perhaps this was just a matter of survival, that this had occurred and that procedures needed to be helped and accelerated to ensure that the beneficiaries of the maintenance came to order to recover their livelihoods. This novel of the law seems to me to be one step forward for all those who actually cannot possibly get to it. And all those promises are free of charge when you say, make good suggestions, and the proposals that can be made, which are quick, which do not require this proposal even reduces the costs of judicial enforcement, are unacceptable and not suitable for further consideration. [[…]] We need to think about what we want, who I want to help in the country. As I have seen these days, there are only nice words that we want to help the weak, but when you ask that mechanisms be put in place in some way or that laws be amended to help the weakest, the government's view that the proposal opposes or the worst is that we do not get an answer to a number of such initiatives or questions. To conclude, I must touch on today's communication, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and we must look at it and protect the weakest in such family disputes in order to avoid tragedy. I am simply reminding you of what needs to be done in the area of the Ministry of the Interior, bringing families closer, and so on, that this does not happen. And I have to point out to you that at a time when perhaps even a few older men can come with a younger partner to the children. They're also 60 years old, and they're fathers. It's about the social work centre and how it's gonna have to be handled so that it doesn't happen. In good faith, you'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We've got some log-outs. The word has Susanna Pretty Šimenka to prepare herself for the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again, Members and Members! Today we have a very sensitive subject. A theme that touches a lot of kids. I'll go a little more from the beginning. Of course, their parents are responsible for the survival of their children. Regrettably, a variety of circumstances sometimes lead to two of these or other reasons being separated, but children must be taken care of regardless. Maintenance shall be determined which depends on the very needs of the beneficiary and also on the material capacity of the payer. The key is to take into account the child's benefits here and to make it possible for a child to develop successfully both in terms of housing, food, clothing, education, protection and entertainment and others. Unfortunately, too often, those who have to pay for maintenance do not pay it. And what remains for the maintenance beneficiary, if we may say so? That he's proposing an execution in court. Well, here's where things get a little more complicated. Today, about 45,000 children have been exposed to maintenance. If the guarantee fund and the disability fund pay a maintenance allowance for about 4,000 children, then we know that this is not a small problem. Regrettably, those who should pay for maintenance often avoid, avoid, or meet obligations for such or other reasons as they should. And even the very enforcement procedures that they are today are sometimes unsuccessful or very long - term and to the great detriment of these children. The Doing Business report 2015 was also mentioned. It is clear from this report that judicial recovery in Slovenia is not effective, unsuccessful and ineffective. And it is also true that the recovery of maintenance is under this same judicial recovery. However, given that the Financial Administration has shown significantly better results and is significantly more successful in recovering from its procedures, our proposal was that this recovery be transferred to the Financial Administration. On your own, you have also admitted by the coalition that recovery procedures are not good. What did the government do? A working group has been set up to set up a proposal for a more efficient management of the country's claims. Nice. What is this task force doing? He's studying. But you know what, we've heard so much, so many working groups have been set up, they've been studying everything, they've made some proposals, they usually have a deadline to finish their work. This is supposed to be by the end of June of this year. But then there's a thousand and one reason why this working group couldn't make proposals by this time, and it's going to be extended again, I don't know, by the end of this year. And that's how years go. On the other hand, we have hundreds, thousands of children who are deprived of some successful development that they actually receive and deserve and must receive. And all we wanted to do with this proposal was somehow help these individuals to run procedures faster, as we would have deserved. We all know they're ineffective, because that's what we all agree with. If this proposal may not be the best, the first consideration is today, let us work it out together, complement it properly and move on with it. That's what we really want. Let us take a step towards making recovery procedures in the country run as they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u116	President, thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the Ministry once again on my side. In the introduction, however, I would like to point out that I simply cannot agree to the dictatorship, that in the coalition we simply oppose the opposition's legal proposals. I just don't think that's true. It is important to bear in mind that the substantive and technical limitations of legal proposals are minimal, or that the limit is only blue sky, while the coalition has a much greater responsibility that, with such and similar proposals as we are considering today, we may not really be destroying that part of the system that is good, well-intentioned and quite effective. Of course, it is the coalition’s task to keep a close eye on the possible repairs or upgrades of a particular system. I think that I, too, am always constructive and correct in my deliberations, even when I am in dialogue with the opposition, so I do not allow myself to have any general accusations of being heard but not heard. I think I personally hear very well, I understand, and I also understand what the context is. Therefore, I would like Members not to accuse in their debates that they are much more selective if, of course, they want to be right in their debates. I fully agree with what has already been said that we are discussing a rather sensitive subject today. The theme is a child who is also in a symbolic sense our prosperity, the welfare of an individual child is the common good of society, and his proper mental and physical development or growth is the welfare of our community. Parents have an important role here, because they are those advocates, they are the foundation that, with some appropriate emotional and social environment, provides the developmental optimism that every human life deserves. That is how we absolutely agree with the opposition in some symbolic sense. Parenthood is a role that never ends when we decide on a child, when we decide to take on the role of parenting, and we will do it or do it in a way that ensures the child's living needs, from the cost of living, food, clothes, shoes, protection, education, education, recreation, recreation, entertainment and other special needs, not to mention emotional needs. Sadly, though, what has been mentioned is that sometimes it is not that some parents do not realize that they are obliged to support their children, despite the fact that they no longer share a marriage or family life with their spouses. Some parents go even so far as to deliberately avoid paying for their livelihood from various motives, either revenge, or other traumas, to me personally incomprehensible. In this case, I believe that the State has responded appropriately and has put itself in a position to defend a child, which, as has already been mentioned today, is a constitutional category. In 1999, we established or merged a maintenance fund that allows children to recover funds from claims on their behalf when their parents avoid legal obligations. In its amendment, the proposer proposes that the recovery of the debtors of the maintenance fund, instead of recovery in a judicial enforcement procedure, be made through administrative recovery under the Furs Tax Procedure Act. In this way, the applicant considers that an effective and cost-effective recovery of the debtor could be made more qualitatively. Although I personally welcome any novelty which, in its essence, seeks to rationalise the work of public institutions, I still have to say that I cannot agree with the proposal of the novel in such a form as this. Maintenance claims by their nature are civil claims for maintenance payments, which then passed on to the subrogation fund. However, courts are competent to recover civil claims. In the tax enforcement procedure, public law benefits are recovered, i.e. taxes and contributions. This means that the claims of the maintenance part of the fund do not originate as a debt to the State because they are linked to the existence of a maintenance obligation established by the court on the basis of a civil law relationship. This means that the transfer of claims to the fund enters the position of the child of the creditor up to the amount of funds as set out in the decision on the reimbursement of maintenance. So the proposer in his proposal unfortunately does not take into account the various procedural rights. But these different procedural rules are too complex in our legislation to be easily solved in the way proposed by the proposer. For this reason, it is also not appropriate to compare the applicant between the claim of the maintenance part of the fund with the disabled because the enforcement process itself is not comparable. When we are talking about disability claims, we are talking about legal persons, and in the case of maintenance claims, this enforcement touches natural persons, where there is always a court present. This also suggested by the proposer that we save in this respect the costs of the functioning of the courts, is simply not true. That's not true. It should also be pointed out that as regards the effectiveness of the recovery of maintenance, in 2014, we changed the law or law on enforcement and insurance, where maintenance claims became priority claims. Since 2014, they have been processed before tax claims, which means that in some court proceedings they are already easier to recover, procedurally speaking. Therefore, we cannot say for certain that the state is in any sense not sensitive to this question as to how quickly some recovery of subsistence should occur. In this sense, I will also explain why it does not seem appropriate for legislation to change, as proposed by the SDS. Let me illustrate. If the debtor is unemployed or does not receive gross cash benefits in the event of recovery of a maintenance obligation, this means that a monthly amount less than 50 % of the gross minimum wage, which amounts to around EUR 396, will be unsuccessful. At the same time, it should be pointed out that in this case tax enforcement would be even more unsuccessful than the SDS proposes, since in this case only the amount of wages exceeding 76 % of the gross minimum wage can be grossed. However, if the debtor is in possession of rubble, this recovery is already possible. When we talk about the SDS proposal, unfortunately, we are talking about a proposal that, in some legal context, is unfortunately too confusing. And despite that, I believe he's well-intentioned, which is why I can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to respond to that part of the discussion of a colleague who, I must say, has had a very correct discussion, but he also said that he does not want to see something broken that works well. At this point, I really don't understand what was meant here. If this recovery of the court is successful there at 41%, the big question is if we break this law, which works well. At least that's how I understand it. In fact, we do not break anything by means of this bill. We want to improve the state of maintenance recovery. That's what we want to do. And once again, and I have said this before, I expect the government and the coalition to improve the proposal, as we have presented it, because they have all the expertise and all that I have said before in their hands in such a way that this law will be truly successful in the goal or the red thread that I represent, that we will truly come to that conclusion, the point that we want to achieve with this law. The fact is that this is a problem and that this problem needs to be solved. He needs to be saved differently than he is now. At this point, when we talk about these percentages, it is clear to us that something is not working. Something really doesn't work, even though I also take into account these objective comments that I hear from the debates of Members and Members, even when I have listened to the views of the groups of Members, but I think there is still a huge reserve in here. In this context, it would be necessary and right to approach different solutions, as they are now in force. And one more thing. We can see that the maintenance fund pays compensation to about 4,000 children, while the maintenance rate is estimated at about 45,000 children in our country. For such a small country, we should also ask ourselves here what is the key cause. This is no longer so that two of them are fighting each other and going apart and there is a problem with maintenance. I think that there is an extremely big problem here with the social situation, the economic and general situation in our society, that there are many reasons for this situation, so that we can talk about so many children who are dependent. I think that on this issue too – especially the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons – should be strongly engaged. They have the opportunity to do analysis, they have all the resources in their hands to figure out why this painting is so dramatic and so problematic, as when we look at it through numbers. I don't see children as numbers, but 40 or 45 thousand dependants, but it's a big number, my dear. And that's a big number, and for me, it's an alarming data, a very alarming data. And this data indicates a state, a social situation. And what should not happen in our society is that the social situation and economic situation of families also lead to a state of separation between father and mother, and then children have a big problem when they stay either with one or with another parent or with a foster parent. I think that this is a problem that would be right for us to talk in the near future about not just talking about how we will recover some of our livelihoods in order to tackle the cause, the beginning that will lead to this situation. I'm sure there are certain situations where it can't be affected if the husband and wife decide to break up, but they're leaving, but I don't think that's relevant. That's a couple of cases. However, the vast majority are linked to the social situation in this society, to the state of the spirit in this society, and to all that is involved. And, above all, family policies. Here I am convinced that things are still on very shaky ground and much more should be done on this level in this area if we want such numbers not to be written here as they are written in this document. I think it's also right that we're talking about this topic, that there's a sentence on this subject, and we're saying two things because it's so important because it's really about children, it's not about numbers. I have kids, I have grandchildren, and I know what that means. I know a lot of people when my parents split up, what a big problem they had with their livelihood, with their livelihood. What some used, what instruments, how they bypassed the country to avoid having to pay for this maintenance. And the legal system made it possible for them to do that. And there should be reasons why some individuals try to bypass our legal system and all that works in this country to avoid payment of maintenance. I also know a lot of mothers, and they've been in a lot of trouble, and there are some of them today when partners with whom they have children are blackmailing them in every way possible. And here, even social work centers don't play their part. I know the rules. I'm not going to say where even the representatives of the Social Work Center were because of the connections on the father's side when it came to the child. It's a sad truth. And if we went to ask people, they'd tell you a lot of things. But I think that here our branch of government can make changes to legislation, amend legislation or improve legislation in this area so that such an anomaly can no longer take place. When we talk about social policy when we talk about the situation in this society, we need to look at it more broadly, because one segment within this policy does not mean anything. Once again, I think that by this law we wanted to make things move in this area, and at the same time to alert the government and the coalition that currently has scissors and canvas in its hands to devote some time to this number, which we are talking about here today, that is 45 000 children who are being paid for by the survivors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice hello to you all! To begin with, let me state my position or firm belief that, in my view, non-payment is an extremely inappropriate, tasteless, and discarded act. And we'll probably all agree here. At first glance, so quickly looking at the change, Marian, who you are proposing, seems to like and if a person did not know quite well this area, but if he did not get a lot of depth, he might be able to quickly support the law. However, if we take a closer look at these matters and get to know individual procedures, individual recoverys, and previously the areas of action that this very broad fund, called the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund, comes to some conclusions. Of course, to understand each other, the more I have to look at this page, because there's no one here that's almost gone, your purpose is certainly, I'm sure, a good one. But the result, of course, will not be good. Why? I'll try to explain very quickly. Comparing the recovery of maintenance work with recovery on the third or the other, if you wish, with the disability part of the fund, which, as you specify by the proponents, is exemplary, excellent, simple, fast, efficient and without unnecessary costs implemented by Furs, in short, and ah in this field of disability work, is not appropriate. We're comparing. For the procedures relating to this disability part of the fund are not comparable to those recovery procedures, with those recovery procedures, if you wish, relating to the maintenance part. The argument is also that the judicial recovery of the debtors of the maintenance part of the Fund is extremely unsuccessful, ineffective, long-term, cost-effective, uh and ah and all the worst at present in this area and is therefore replaced by administrative financial recovery, which is simple, fast, effective, as I mentioned earlier. In the event of recovery of maintenance claims, it is not convincing, but in some ways misleading, because different areas of operation are, as I said, a claim. There are several important differences between the claims and the resulting recovery process already after the content of the various activities of the Fund, which are already seen from the nature of the competence of the Fund, which are divided into several areas. We know that this fund is now either a three-dimensional organization or an association. The first is the guarantee part where workers are guaranteed rights in cases of bankruptcy, forcible settlement and so on, in cases of insolvency. The second part is the maintenance part of the fund, the maintenance fund, if you want to, where maintenance allowances are guaranteed to be granted to those children who, by way of a legal judgment, have a temporary order or arrangement at the social work centre, but are dependents, in the vast majority of cases these are, of course, fathers do not pay. The third part is the disability part. Decision on rights under the obligations of disabled persons and employers in accordance with the Act on the Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities. Marriage also differs in the nature of recovery. The fourth part, which is not now the subject of this, but here I can not express my desire to join this fund as soon as possible, the area of scholarships which is currently managed and supervised by the Fund for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships. Of course, this should not result in a reduction in the number or extent, if you wish, of the rights of beneficiaries who have scholarships under this heading. But that was for intermezza. One of the following important differences between the area of maintenance powers and the powers under the operation of the Fund in the disability area is that in cases relating to the disability part of the Fund, recovery is against legal persons. However, in procedures relating to the maintenance part of the fund, recovery shall be made against natural persons. I believe that these differences have been very detailed in the presentation of the Group's position, so I would like to cut down here a little bit. Maybe just this information, I don't have the exact results right now, but the results of the maintenance work, I'm sure they are between 40% and 50%, which is bad because it's not 100% recovery or close to 100%, but if you compare it with comparable institutions in the European Union countries, we're very good. I remember when I was still very directly involved in this, Slovenia was, or at that time, the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, the best in terms of recovery, compared to the countries of the European Union. But that's about five, six years ago. I believe that this trend has been maintained, that this position has not failed. In view of the fact that it also commands the last-ever applicable legislation under the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, it is possible to conclude that maintenance claims in judicial enforcement are easier to recover than in tax enforcement, of course if the debtor receives regular monthly income, regular monthly inflows. Of course, something is also true here, and it must also be said at the end of the day, that there are problems if the debtor does not receive such funds, that there are no financial inflows, monthly, annuity or any other. Normally, in such cases, the creditor shall propose the following execution to the debtor's movable property and, in particular, to the immovable property. Again, the conditional question is whether the debtor – the debtor has it. In any event, the court shall have jurisdiction to execute the property. We're back in court, and we're not going to comment on how these courts work in general. Even if the tax enforcement is not successful and the debtor has real estate, the district court is responsible for the enforcement of the property. In these extreme cases, there would be virtually no change for maintenance executions even when transferred to the Financial Administration at the final stage. However, it should also be said that, in the case of these executions, when it comes to intervention on movable or immovable property, the matter is somewhat problematic. Why? On the one hand, because, as we know, these debtors and general debtors are now very resourceful, very skilled, under ignorance, and on the other hand, it is also important to note the high costs of execution which otherwise burden the courts. In conclusion, it might be worth considering the Fund's recovery policy when the Fund insists on enforcement, which is how things are recorded on the debtor's movables, despite the obvious fact that they will fail. The Fund unreservedly and often proposes to the judicial enforcement authorities to carry out constantly new attempts at ruble, even though all previous attempts have failed. The latter is causing high costs and the result is expected to fail with great certainty. It should be, I'm going to say so much at home, to figure out that way, too, how these skilled frauds, at the same time, would completely unresponsible dependents, would get their hands on their fingers. As I say, I will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Hainz. I have heard many indications this year and a half about the laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party or the laws proposed by the opposition. Consider one as populist, one as completely flawed, one as if you did not know what we meant by it, one as well, and some as well-intentioned, and I consider this designation to be a supporter of the law if it was not proposed by the opposition. There was much to hear about the substantive reasons why we are even talking about these changes today, how adults go apart, what a problem it is to pay for their livelihoods. Well, that's not the topic today. The topic is how to get away from the one who should be paying for his allowance, but doesn't pay for it, and instead he pays the fund, how to get that money out of it. Here I'm going to repeat what I said in my position. For many years, the Fund has identified the issue of the recovery of the maintenance fund's debtors. The fact is that according to 2015 data, recovery under the Law on Enforcement and Insurance in Slovenia is exceptionally unsuccessful, ineffective, long-term and cost-effective. According to data and reports by Doing Business of the World Bank for 2015, the recovery in Slovenia is unsuccessful, ineffective. The European Commission also notes in its third review of the state of justice for Slovenia. Thus, the indications I have heard before that the situation as it is appropriate and does not need such corrections simply do not stand. To prevent the existing system, as well as this document, which I have here, is a document of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, under which Mr Janko Marinko, Secretary General of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, is signed by the Minister of Justice, Mag. Klemenčič and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, are proposing amendments in the field of enforcement. This was written by the enforcement group, the programme which operates in the Supreme Court, dealing with enforcement proceedings against taxpayers for compensation, maintenance payments for children in which the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund acts as a creditor, and enforcement procedures under official responsibility. So I don't read everything, I'm just going to read the verdict that two ministers sent from the Supreme Court. They wrote: "It might be reasonable for all the claims referred to above to be transferred to the tax authority, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, in view of the greater efficiency of the management of procedures and the effectiveness of recovery. After all, these are claims imposed on debtors by the budgetary user or those arising under the law and belonging to the budget. At the same time, we continue to point out that it is necessary to establish such a write-off policy so that the costs of managing forcible recovery cannot exceed reasonable limits." It is said that it is not only the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to change here and that we are going the same way as in disabled cases, that we are going to Furs in these cases as well. It is said to be a document, and this is the opinion of the Supreme Court, the work of the judiciary of that branch which is for you oh and even in this country. It is said that the Supreme Court is proposing exactly what we have proposed not to read everything, here in writing that there are problems because we have such a system, that problems because the courts are dealing with this, so it would be, as in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we have written in the financial consequences, that this would have a financial impact on the budget, namely, about half a million euro savings, that I am not talking about an important factor, and this is the burden of our courts. If you do not believe the Slovenian Democratic Party, in this case you believe at least those who always believe them, and this is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. To break this sleepiness and the monotonousness that goes to the end. While there was a very important topic, I remembered that we had another debate yesterday, and a colleague from the SDS Group said that it was important when you took a lot of time. And look how long we've taken: 90 minutes. Today, this same parliamentary group took only 30 minutes to discuss the subject. Although I don't believe it myself, and I also argued yesterday why the length isn't important, it's important, but especially what you say. So I suggest to my colleague that next time he be a little careful about what he's saying, because he's going to catch himself in his own trap. What's more important about this topic is that the proposal put forward by the parliamentary group, if we play and take a little look at this very important matter that they have proposed, I personally do not believe how they really studied and really thought hard about how they would propose a solution that would solve a problem that has been going on for many years and that is not only a court issue, but also a fund that has been proposing to the ministry for many years that you are proposing. That's true, you'll see if you take the documents into your hands. Before the government introduced a basic law waiting for the order to be completed after a reduced procedure, this law of yours, so that we can move on to the basic law, the Fund made comments. When I read these comments, I saw that the diction was prescribed in the explanation of your marriage, you actually used their text. Which is nothing wrong. Don't get me wrong. Of course, I am concerned because if I look at both documents, I see that they are both filed or written on the same day, only that one is filed on Thursday and the other on Friday because of the known fact that the government is adopting laws on Thursday and then sending them on Friday. When you saw on the agenda what the Government was going to deal with, you rushed on the same day and made the same law to torture and talk about what was important and what was not. The fact is that the topic you are opening is important, but the way you would like to solve it and arrange it, and you are crying that everything the opposition is proposing must be rejected and that there is no way to support it – no, no, no, no. And I'm going to show you very clearly on a specific case. Look, I personally claim that every injustice must be respected. And many times I've listened to arguments about how people work, work, then fail, pay taxes, and don't pay people. Like craftsmen, entrepreneurs, companies. But after this analogy, if such material were accepted as a generally accepted state-of-the-art recovery work in the field of civil law, the same could be said of the economist. And why, if he paid the tax, would the state not, in order to recover the right, from what someone in some partner business relationship did not pay him for a service rendered? I'd give that to compare, too. It could be a serious problem. And if we didn't get things wrong, I'd be so glad if the state did. But then we get one high-ranking police officer who's going to make universal recoverys and claims, which doesn't really mean your thesis when you say it doesn't bring extra costs. This means, first of all, to replace the complex system of logic of the recovery itself, secondly, the very purpose of Furs as such must then be organizationally, informationally, technologically and not least from the point of view of human resources, because this means an enormously larger scope of work, completely changed. In addition, what Comrade Mahnic said and waved with the Supreme Court’s paper — see, everyone defends a certain work and everyone wants to get rid of it. It's just everyone from their point of view. But this job will have to be done by someone else. I would rather see that both, the Supreme Court and the Fund – one of course by its logic, because it does so, the other because it follows and decides – propose which other marriage solutions could be introduced in order to change the recovery of these nutrients, which could be practical, fast, simple, cheap and very clear, as a colleague said, to stop those bastards who actually manipulate and abuse the law. That's why I find your proposal unconceivable, in fact unconceivable. The international comparison that I announced at the outset is, look, every country has its own legal order, has its own rules and its own legislation. And to compare it with some recovery of nutrients in another country, which has other legislation, is virtually impossible concretely in your proposal not to say that I speak in general, you did not mention any body that would be comparable to Furs who would make this recovery in this case. [[..]] You're not. You keep saying the state recovers. The State may recover or provide grounds for this recovery to take place in what way. Financial implications. I already told you from the beginning that you say that half a million will be saved, but don't say that automatically every new burden that goes to Furs means the first change in the information system, definitely, which is already a cost. And that's what all the organs do when they get a new assignment. The second thing is, people are gonna have to do it physically. Don't tell me that someone who's already under a lot of pressure to do this with the ease of doing it tomorrow. And thirdly, Furs picks up everything in the integral budget, which means that he is also a direct budget user and receives funds for the salaries of both employees and others, which means that you have not even calculated this cost. Even if someone just moves, the question is how this is organised in another organization. This is not foreseen in this proposal. I personally tend to change legislation, but I propose that the country does. The Secretary of State said that there was a working group that would draw up certain conclusions by the end of June and would probably propose to the Ministry what was to be done in this area. But it's certainly not a problem from today, from yesterday, but it's a problem that's been dragging for many years, even during your government. In fact, this is a matter that in some ways makes sense to get rid of it. In the end, let me just mention the last thing that matters to me. Especially in terms of recovery, if we look at what local communities always expect. Local communities also have at least two obligations and Furs have recovery on their behalf. All red tape, crime stories, and so on, I'll say, recovery itself. What else do we want leftovers to transfer to Furs? I say that's why it's important to look at what Furs is really doing today. I'm saying that Furs is already doing some recovery today because he's been pretty nice to him over the years. In fact, Furs has only one main task, which is to collect taxes. Let me mention this because you made a comparison with the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. In this case, of course, it is not the same thing. If you look at the law, you will see that Articles 1, 3, 62, and 65 make it very clear when, in some cases, and who really is obliged to collect these benefits on the basis of non-compliance. Why? For one simple reason, because this law also makes it very clear that measures, incentives, subsidies and relief are involved in this case. In this case, we can talk about some kind of means that are actually by the state and are therefore also possible for the company to get them if they hire a disabled person. At the same time, if they do not meet the conditions, they shall invest in the fund. And if it doesn't pay into the fund – it's about these funds – then Furs automatically makes recovery. So to compare it with child support, it's not compatible, it doesn't have the same legal basis, it just doesn't go together when you fold them. So I don't see the point of talking about it and it's actually kind of incorrect because it's not the same thing. But it sounds very similar, yes, and that's true if we generalize things. Let me finish. I believe that with a shorter session and with less talk, we can say significantly more qualitatively than with the long speech and repetition of one and the same mantras that my colleague is already accustomed to, and he will probably continue to repeat them. That's what we're used to, and that's what we expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u126	Mr Vice President, thank you. Comrade Jani, it really looks like you're a giant. Here you explain everything you think is what you're saying. But believe me, there are a few things that aren't what you're trying to introduce here. There's only one thing I'm going to bring to your attention. When you spoke about the time of the debate taken by the SDS to discuss this law, I must warn you that you must first learn to count. 30 plus 30 is 60 for me. You've taken 35 minutes, and you're the biggest party in the world. And I ask you nicely not to deceive people, not to talk nonsense, and not to make a fool out of yourself, because at your age, I think you have over 40, but you've probably already learned to count. If not, I'll bring you that kid when I used to learn, you know, with those balls, and you might be able to figure out what 30 plus 30 is. Otherwise, I'll show you if you can't do it on your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a general part of the debate. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogacar, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe just a brief explanation. Today, the discussion, in particular by the proposer, has repeatedly said that the bill improves the situation of children receiving maintenance. It is also important to stress to the public who listens to us that children receive maintenance from the maintenance fund only according to the success of execution in any case. The maintenance fund is also intended for this purpose. It is said that the more effective enforcement of the maintenance fund will not improve the situation of these children, nor will the non-admission of this law make it any worse. It's important to stress this because I think it's been a little overlooked today. I was also disturbed by the argument that the country had done nothing in this area. Today, we have mentioned several times the amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which has substantially changed the conditions for recovery of nutrients. The admissibility of the implementation of this maintenance in 2014 already results. If only compared, these are the public data of the Fund, in 2013, the Fund managed to recover only a third of all the maintenance benefits it paid. In 2014, the law was passed, and last year this percentage of successfully recovered nutrients exceeded 50%. So there are steps in this direction. We would like more, but it is important to stress that the maintenance fund has been set up to ensure that children receive maintenance, even if those who are obliged to pay for maintenance do not pay for it. And the success of the implementation of the fund for paid maintenance has nothing to do with the situation of children. In any case, the child receives a maintenance allowance from the maintenance fund. Of course, we all want to see the need to recover livelihoods in our society diminish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think today this debate has been a good one, that it has opened up in the right way and that this issue has really been presented here in the National Assembly in the way I think it is right. And it is also right that we have introduced such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I think it will also encourage the government and the coalition to take an even more intensive approach to solving this issue, which we are talking about today, and which is also the intention of this law. All I want to say to the Secretary of State is that I think he made a mistake when he said that children are receiving maintenance from the maintenance fund. No, they're getting a refund. This seems to me to be very important and it would not have happened by accident that citizens and citizens would have been misled by this information. And we are all aware and, indeed, absolutely also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of this that it is right that we have such a fund, and it is right for all children to receive maintenance. It is absolutely right that children are the most vulnerable group in this situation that has no influence on certain things. This must be taken care of by the state, which must be taken care of by policy. And that's right. However, when we talk about recovery, I stress once again, and I am sure that I am right that the courts in this area are not successful enough to recover, and it is imperative to look for a different model for solving this problem. I don't think we're talking politically about this issue here today. And it would be better if you didn't. But let's open up the darkness and say exactly what we think, each of us from our own point of view, and finally we're trying to sort things out and get to a solution. I still think that the marriage proposal that we have proposed is good, well-intentioned. I certainly do not agree with those who try to instill this marriage in their favor. This law is not acceptable, this law is absolutely necessary and must be adopted. But I said we had a chance to finish the marriage. The government, the coalition can add it to be acceptable to everyone and that we will actually solve this crucial problem that we are facing. And that's the fund's maintenance recovery. I therefore propose, I call on the coalition to vote in favour of this proposal, which we have actually tabled in favour of everyone and everyone living in this society and country. At the same time, once again, I clearly point out that it would be very right and important to address at the same time the problem posed by this astronomical number – 45 000 children receiving maintenance. This is the topic, but this is the problem, where I think we should really dig into the causes of this situation for all of us sitting in Parliament, and the government, the coalition, the opposition, all of us, and here create better conditions for family life, better conditions in that context that people will see in the family, including those who might still be united today, if perhaps they had different living conditions today were a man and a wife and they would not have to pay maintenance. I think that one of the fundamental questions that this society, this country, at some point, will have to answer, regardless of which political story someone belongs to. And we're going to have to face this problem together, and in this way I think we can get to a point where we're not going to deal with whether we've finally survived so many and so many nutrients that are now problematic, because it's easy, as we see, that we're reaching 41%. I think that's a very poor result. That is why we must pay so much and so much money from the state budget into this fund. I don't think that's right. I think it is possible to solve this in a way that we have now proposed by this law and in a different way, as I have already said, to reduce the number, to do everything we can to prevent this number being 45 000 or more dependent children, to create the right conditions for families to stay together and that children will not wait for maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We've got some time left. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end the 11th item of the agenda and also interrupt the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 15.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u132	We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on the guarantee system for applications under urgent procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 31. 3. 2016, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 56. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left we will support this amendment. 250 000 euros is not a big penalty if a bank does not want to pay the fund. For example, the United Nations Bank will have to pay a good 15 million euros, and the penalty of 250 000 euros is extremely low. It is true that Banka Slovenije has other mechanisms that would significantly affect the bank more than this fine. However, at this point, I have to distance myself from the author's written explanation and from this argument, I will quote: "This means that someone responsible for the bank hole may be punished with a fine equal to or even lower than the fine to someone who entered the guest records in their surnames instead of è." Here it must be said that these fines have absolutely nothing to do with liability for bad loans. First of all, these are fines for the bank and not her employees. So these fines don't tange the bankers. Secondly, the offences relate not to the operation of banks and to lending, but to the obligations of commercial banks to the guarantee fund and the obligation to inform savers about the operation of the guarantee scheme. I find the reference to a bank hole completely inappropriate, and it is not surprising that confidence in the National Assembly also falls due to demagogic explanations. The Socialists will support this amendment because it gives a clear signal to commercial banks that there can be no concession when maintaining the deposit guarantee scheme and informing the commissioners. This is all without getting into a bank hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u134	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, President. The amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 56 of this Act is bound by the amount of the fine. The first paragraph of Article 56 of the bill states that between 25 000 and 250 000 euros are fined by the bank or the EU branch, as was just said, with the status of a legal person. That amount has a fairly large range. If we look at this article in detail, we can see that it has 13 indents. Of which 8 indents are related to the information of the applicant. Further 4 indents are linked to the late payment of the regular contribution by each bank, the remaining two indents to provide the bank with an appropriate information system for accessing data. We believe that the amount recorded is proportionate to possible infringements, because Banka Slovenije, as regulator, will also carry out all activities carefully as the manager of this fund, since Banka Slovenije also issues so-called amounts or calculations of individual bank contributions in these procedures. Therefore, the assessment is that the amount of the fine is appropriate. We are also in the position that there will almost be no such cases, that work will be for the criminal body. On the basis of the above, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will vote against the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u136	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 25 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. The vote was 49, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u137	The law before you today is at first reading. I think that this area needs some changes. If we want to be a successful country, then we need to get our business environment as close as possible to those in the north as possible, particularly in Germany and Austria. Our proposal follows exactly that. At the same time, there was an interesting debate today, from which I think at least one came out. This is that our proposal does not reduce the safety standards of workers and employees, but in some ways it does change the standard of employer responsibility. If I can get Mrs. Murgel to be very specific. In this context, I would like to make it clear that, because of this law or in the case of the adoption of this law, the standards of worker safety will not be reduced, so employers will not be able to facilitate any other measures that would contribute to greater safety. All measures in this area will continue, will not be reduced, but will increase the responsibility of employers. In the event of minor errors, damage, and these things will be covered by what employers pay each month into a special fund and will be collected for between €70 million and €80 million. If this is about greater negligence, employers will have to pay a fine of up to €15 000. This way and in this sense this law goes. I hope and wish that at least we would let him go through the first hearing and any comments you may have made then in the form of amendments in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u138	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will vote against this proposal in the United Left because the proposal reduces the pressure on employers to ensure your health and safety at work. This proposal fully removes the responsibility for negligence and limits the responsibility for gross negligence. In short, it deletes two of those coercive, preventive measures without which the standards of health protection in practice would not be implemented. We can be sure of that. The United Left's position is that the pressure to ensure health and safety at work needs to be increased rather than reduced. This position comes from a situation on the ground, a sad situation on the ground. The data from the Labour Inspectorate show that on average over the last three years more than 9 000 500 work accidents have been reported, of which 439 were more severe on average, and in 2014 23 were fatal, which is the largest since the outbreak of the financial crisis. And if it doesn't convince anyone else, I'll say the following. A slight negligence doesn't mean it's a possible injury. The expression light negligence refers to the cause, not the consequence of the accident. An accident with a fatal outcome may also result from a slight negligence. The Labour Inspectorate's data show that there are a great deal of fatal accidents in micro-enterprises and in espouses. It is precisely this small sector that is the best proof that standards on paper are one thing and the application of these standards in practice is a completely different thing. Chaining of shares, abuse of agency work, fraud of posted workers, all of these practices are carried out exclusively in small businesses with a few employees. All these abuses are forbidden. Here. But they're mass-produced. Let us recall only the infamous case of Marof Trad, which we also considered in the National Assembly. And these are the facts. From these facts, the proposaler, in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, has somehow managed to draw the conclusion that there is a need to reduce the pressure on employers to take care of safety and health at work. Well, we socialists have drawn quite a reverse conclusion from this: that we must not give up on compensation responsibility, and this is a subject that is totally uncompromising to us, so we will vote against it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u140	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u141	Mr President, thank you for saying so. During the debate, Members of the SMC have given a very detailed reason why we are opposed to the proposal. In general, I can say that in the SMC Group, we believe that employers must take responsibility for a quality working environment and that they must respect and take into account a higher level of care, as this simply imposes on them their position. In the SMC Group, we cannot agree to the New Slovenia discourse, which says that the applicable rules in the field of safety and health at work endanger business operators. We believe that the legislation in force in this area does not impose too much burden on offenders, that it does not represent a burden in such a case, that it would lead to a deterioration of the social security of the entrepreneurs themselves or that it would in any way endanger the business. Therefore, as we say, we will not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u142	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public, Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 22 for them and 45 for them. [[There were 22 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 29. 3. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly made the proposal of the law inconsistent in the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 49 for them and 15 for them. [[49 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 29. 3. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the article of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled, which are published on the e-club. Since the other amendments of the Group are the United Left to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 32, we will discuss together in both articles and the amendments tabled. I am therefore putting to the debate paragraphs 1 and 32 and the three amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, chairman. With the amendment in the United Left, we propose that all salaries and salaries, and not just salaries and allowances, should be fixed as a priority claim for the last three months prior to the commencement of insolvency proceedings, as is the case with the existing regime or 6 months as is expected. The bankruptcy legislation is already being stolen in a way that benefits the owners of the company, benefits the banks, and benefits all other financial institutions. But workers are those who usually draw short not only because they lose their jobs but also because they lose everything. As a result, our amendment seeks to remedy the situation in a way that clearly identifies all unpaid salaries and salaries without a limited period of time as priority claims. If workers are already creating all the value, it is also right that they share in this value, especially at the time when they are promised to lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u144	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 1. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Socialists are also proposing that all unpaid benefits be fixed as priority claims, and not only the discharges up to the amount of the duty fixed for a worker who loses his job on the basis of the cancellation of the employment contract for business reasons. Retirement is the legal and contractual right of an employee and therefore it is only appropriate and fair to determine all benefits, regardless of their level, as a priority claim.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-31-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u146	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 44. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 32. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to that Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 43. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the second amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposal to Article 32 has become irrelevant. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Services or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the draft law was not harmonised at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 17th meeting of the National Assembly.
