ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Maruša Škopac, Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mag. Ange Logar and mag. Andrey Shircelj. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of Justice and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 15th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 15 January 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 15th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from 35 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, both Members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Mr Karel Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister for the Interior, Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, Dr Dušan Maramor, Minister of Finance, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, Minister without a resource, responsible for development and strategic projects and cohesion, and Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! Among the aforementioned five absent ministers, four have a legitimate reason, only Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has no reasonable reason to be absent from the meeting of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister is justified and can be replaced by someone when it comes to international activity. And that's the only reason the minister can apologize for the meeting of the National Assembly. Dr Dusan Maramor, as we can see from this explanation, has an annual leave, which means that this absence is not consistent, is not justified, and I would, Mr President, only suggest that you address the President of the Government to ensure the participation of ministers and that the absence is permissible only for justified reasons. That this problem is such an unjustified absence also shows that we adopted the programme of work of the National Assembly on 9 November last year, that is, three months ago. I think that in recent cases, particularly in this academic area, or that such acts and planned absences in the time of the questions sent are entirely unfounded. I suggest that you warn the President of the Government to ensure that his ministerial team attends meetings of the National Assembly and does not abuse the rules and regulations and uses these unjustified grounds for absence. The problems faced in the country, the problems faced by the Minister of Finance and by another minister and related to these unjustifiable matters, cannot be the reason for avoiding the meeting of the National Assembly and any questions related to these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u3	Such apologies for the meeting or attendance of the meetings of the National Assembly have already been transmitted. I will consider this proposal and react accordingly. Now let's move on. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question will be asked by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Ethics, morality, these were the only political promises SMC made before the elections. To this day, they have turned into their contradictions — deception, fraud, and abuse. In the United Left, we are most disturbed by the current transfer and tolerance to the systematic abuses afforded by the academic elite. It is about protecting the interconnectivity of the political and academic elite and their corrupt practices. At the time of the dean of the Faculty of Economics, Minister Maramor was consciously benefiting from the illegal assets. Mr Maramor did not only violate Article 16 of the ZJU and should be responsible, and his action also has signs of clientelism. He assigned illegal earnings to other members of the management. Among these is the secretary of the university, who unjustifiably received more than 41,000 euros. And that man right now is the head of the marble cabinet. President of the Government, you have not accepted Dusan Marble's resignation. It seems more like an agreed performance for the public. Also, Mrs Cerar, you did not invite Minister Makovec Brenčič to resign. In addition to the unjustified addition, the Minister paid another 19 000 euros in unjustified meetings and travel costs from Nakvis. Instead of resigning, it appears, the Minister is awaiting the task of legalising the internal privatisation of the University. But it's being privatized by the academic elite, which you, Mr. Prime Minister, are protecting. The academic elites and the political class do enter into the relationship of symbiosis and mutual backing. That's why, Mr. President of the Government, I'm interested: Why was Minister Marble's conduct excusable and not the actions of Minister Senator Cankar? Senator Cankar received astronomical fees, the practice was unfair, but at least it was legal, but Mrs Setnikar Cankar offered her resignation and you, as Prime Minister of the Government, did not accept it at the time. Well, this time we're dealing with the illegal payment of unjustifiable astronomical supplements. And Minister Marble knew exactly what he was doing, and he was deceiving himself with a variety of excuses, which then turned out to be lies. When you rejected the resignation of the Minister of Finance, Mr Prime Minister, I will quote: "The work of the SMC has upset the people who had previously made a fortune at the expense of the citizens". End of quote. But all the actions in you point in a diametric opposite direction, which is why I am interested: Who are these people who have been rich at the expense of their citizens, for your unjustifiable reasons? And I'm very interested here, if not a name, but at least something works, where they work, in which state-owned companies we talk to. What I really want to hear is, Mr President of the Government, specific names and surnames. And then forward, why not, I want to know: What concrete action have you taken against these people? Last but not least, there are people here who are rich at the expense of their citizens. Mr. President, thank you very much for your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u5	Dr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have made a statement to the Member State, which reads as follows: "I will ask the President of the Government a question regarding the human resources policy of the current government." So, for the first time, what you have said in the end that you would like some specific names does not fall within the scope of your stated question, nor is it possible and appropriate that you, as Prime Minister of the Government, now list the names of the people who are responsible for it or who are in or will be in these or those procedures. I will focus on this question, which, of course, you have abused, but I will still give an answer at least on the main one, which, of course, I am directly responsible for. You mentioned Minister Dusan Marble and the question of ethics. First, let me say this: irregularities or errors that occurred in 2008 at what a large number of colleges and many people, and perhaps there were such irregularities in other spheres, and in other years, there were errors detected by our government. None of the previous governments, three governments ahead of us, have exposed these mistakes. In this government, Minister Koprivnikar of the SMC has also initiated these procedures to reveal the matter. Which, for the first time, shows that, under the guidance of SMC, our government follows the fundamental principle of the rule of law, revealing irregularities – including ethical ones, not just legal ones. Secondly, not every ethical error is as difficult. Every time you, as Prime Minister of the Government or anyone else, judge someone's responsibility, you have to judge it in the context of various factors. Minister Dušan Marmor, after the first somewhat unwitting statements, also made in some way, for which I strongly criticized him, criticized him also for the act, for the error that was made, publicly excused, regretted his actions, returned all the funds, and offered me a resignation. I see in this the ethical component of his behavior. Especially because at the time he ordered these fees, they are not, as you say, clienteleistic, but he provided these fees to fellow students at the university who worked through regular working hours. Before that, he asked whether it was a legal basis. A regulation was adopted which, according to the competent authorities, made it possible for him to do so. He in good faith that he was working under the law, ordered these fees for people who worked through normal time. You too. That's right. Today, it was found to be a mistake, so it is right that he accepted the responsibility to apologize publicly, to offer a resignation. At the same time, I must bear in mind that he did not do so as a minister in the current government, an act from the past that, as a minister in the current government, is one of the best, he received a prestigious award from the first Minister of Europe. So the best financier of the year, I'm talking about the financial field, which is being awarded by a respected magazine from London, The Banker. Minister Dusan Maramor is extremely worthy of our success in consolidating public finances, reducing the rise in public debt, reducing the budget deficit below 3%, and I would like to point out this, with all this and many other factors, the increase in credit ratings, which has saved our country more than half a billion euros because of the fall in interest. So Minister Marble is doing his job well. He takes it seriously, even on weekends, even in the evening, and he and I work with him repeatedly and work together, or he works with his associates constantly. I would therefore point out that in this weighting of what must prevail, I have decided that he certainly deserves criticism, he deserves a kind of reminder, but that when he took responsibility, he regretted it, and because he is doing a great job, I have decided to stay in the government. The same reasons also apply to Minister Makovec Brenčič. Let me explain this. When Mrs Stanka Setnikar Cankar was in a similar situation, slightly different, she did not want to continue working alone in the government under any condition. So she didn't even let me think about it at the time, so I didn't have a choice. Her resignation must have been a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u7	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Look, I didn't abuse an instrument on any point. We all know that state authorities, state-owned enterprises are in one way or another subordinated to the Prime Minister of the Government, that the President of the Government can act to directly recruit in them. So my question was right here. And if there are abuses happening somewhere, Mr. Prime Minister, they happen on your ministerial team because it pays off such and other unjustifiable supplements or it's in its academic career, and now it's caught up in misleading, revealing lies. I repeat the question that I posed before, and in fact you did not answer it in any concrete way, but you hid behind some rather vague definition of weighing, so: Why was Minister Marble's conduct excusable and not the actions of Minister Senator Cankar? Please, if you don't stay away from the answer this time, you will say very clearly. In both cases, we have an illegal payment of astronomical supplements. In the current case of Minister Mumorro, it is also an illegal payment. In general, I think we are faced with a manoeuvre in your rhetoric, as we have seen in the question of privatisation of public enterprises. Mr Cerar, you deceive the public with statements of the type – the work of the SMC upsets people who have previously been rich at the expense of citizens only to conceal their own service to enrich individuals on public funds, including those sitting in your government. Mr. Prime Minister, you're doing exactly what you tell others to do again. In this particular case, we are faced with the full support of the Government of Internal Privatisation of the University under the tactics of academic elites and the acquisition of public funds. Thank you very much for your addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u9	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! You certainly misused the question, for in what you predicted, there was not at least half of what you asked me here or in the direction you pointed. If you allow me to think about it, you say here in front of the public that state-owned companies are subordinated to the Prime Minister of the Government. Look, you're gonna get that into your question. I don't know, it's for me, I'd say, whether it's a great incompetence or intentional deception to the public. You know that state-owned enterprises have not been subordinated to the Government or to the Prime Minister of the Government since the establishment of the Slovenian State holding company to which this corporate management has been transferred. And then when you add that SMC's kind of favored clientism, lobbying, etc., you're spreading again the untruth that you could be sued for in a normal situation, and you're abusing your privilege of parliamentary immunity. You can be here because you have parliamentary immunity, you say every possible lie, and I have only the chance to say that it doesn't. And when we talk about these abuses, it's just as unethical as anything else you say. So I'm not going to suggest your resignation, but I'm just telling you that I won't allow you to say such things. SMC doesn't do that. As President of the Party, I have also made it very clear here, and several times in recent days, that we are absolutely in favour of the exercise of legal and ethical responsibility, where necessary, but not for every act is a necessary penalty of withdrawal or I do not know, a crossing, if we want to say anything. The penalty must be proportionately organised. I explained why I made such a decision. This decision has not been easy, you know it and I know it myself, I believe it triggers a different change, it is legitimate, and you have the right to your opinion, but you do not have the right to spread the facts. And so once again, I have considered the decision well, explained it, Minister Marble has taken on his responsibility, settled what he owed, acted in good faith, did not know that he was acting unlawfully at the time. I repeat, these irregularities have not been detected by any of the previous three governments; we have discovered them ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u11	Dr. Franz Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm getting horrified where the form of this national council is taking me. I am not a lawyer, nor a doctor of law, nor a former advisor to this National Assembly, but this time I have read the Rules of Procedure, nor do I manage it as well as Mr Tanko, but I know that the Rules of Procedure are interpreted by the President, not the President of the Government of Slovenia, who comes here to answer questions from the Members. In this National Assembly, the same rules apply to all. Let them also apply to the government when it comes to the National Assembly. That's my suggestion. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u13	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to ask for a procedural request for a discussion of the answer to be held at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. If not otherwise, it would make sense to make a request to address the Prime Minister's reply at the plenary session of the National Assembly already because it uses its time to answer the correct question of the Member State to account for the United Left rather than to make some substantive arguments. However, if I return to the question of the matter only, look, the Prime Minister has not yet answered why Minister Marble's conduct was justifiable and the conduct of Minister Setnikar Cankar is not. He preferred to deny that the President of the Government has, directly or indirectly, a great deal of power in government bodies and in state-owned enterprises. The President of the Government claims that the work of the SMC has upset people who have previously been rich at the expense of the citizens, but we are faced with a situation which is quite contrary to Mr President of the Government's claim. Ministers of the Government, Mramor, Ms Setnikar Cankar, Makovec Brenčič etc. are really those who have made a lot of money at the expense of the citizens. For his statements, the President of the Government did not provide any evidence, no specificity. Nothing new, or we could say. Well, anyway, in an unknown place, in an unknown time. However, there are abuses, and the abuses that are known, and Mr Cerar and SMC protect concrete abuses at the academy at all times. Finally, the SMC did not intervene in its operation in any area where we know that there is actually an exhaustion of public funds. And misleading the Prime Minister, his service to elites, protecting the citizens' wealth are reasons for the alarm. I think this is a strong debate at the plenary session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u15	Miha Kordiš on your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26 January 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Due to the inefficient common European policy in dealing with the migration crisis, the Member States most exposed to migratory flows have been forced to seek their solutions to protect their national borders and citizens. At Thursday's meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided, due to the expected restrictions on the entry of migrants into neighbouring Austria, that the Slovenian border could be crossed only by migrants who would apply for asylum in Austria, Germany or Slovenia. Your Honor, Mr President: What will Slovenia do if Austria rejects the entry of more migrants who will not even apply for asylum in Slovenia? What will it do if Croatia does not want to accept these migrants back? If, despite the restrictions on entry into our country, many migrants are to be returned to Slovenia, how will we take care of them? Will €123 million in the state budget be sufficient? Thank you for your answer, Your Honor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u17	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As you know, the migration crisis is something that goes beyond Slovenia's ability and, in fact, each country, but we really need a common European solution, as well as a wider solution, both in countries of origin in Africa, Syria and on the edges of Europe. In this regard, let me say that I am sure that if we do not come up with some common solutions within the EU or more, the matter will not only shake Slovenia, but even Europe. I have therefore taken the initiative to introduce, in addition to all the measures already taken by the European Union for Greece, and to implement them, in addition to the agreement with Turkey, which has not yet been implemented, another line of protection for this, I would say, our European stories on the line between Macedonia and Greece. It is a matter of proposing that a line of border protection be established there jointly for the participation of European countries, where additionally, if this fails in Greece, regular migration to Europe would be prevented. This proposal, which has already been published by some European media in these days, such as Die Welt, twice, Handelsblatt, also the Brussels medium Politico, Le Monde, and so on, is having this moment of concrete debate, because today the Ministers of the Interior will have a special meeting at their regular meeting in Amsterdam to address this very initiative that I have presented. I hope and wish that this initiative would be successful, because in this case we will be able to stop this flow of irregular migrants across the so-called Western Balkan and Central European routes. That is why, in fact, it is very important that I have received today's letter from Mr Juncker, President of the European Commission, in which he explicitly accepts and supports this initiative and wants it to be realized. Of course, this initiative has already been supported by the countries of the higher-level Quartet and also by some countries in the Balkans, Croatia, Serbia and Macedonia themselves. In this way we will solve this problem, if we solve it only at our borders, the country will be multi-layered, including economic, not least the closure of the borders between Sweden-Denmark, Denmark-Germany, Germany-Austria, Slovenia-Croatia may lead to a weakening of economic relations, conflicts. Especially in the Western Balkans, these conflicts can become more serious. Slovenia has adopted a position, as you said. We will do as we have done so far, we will take care of those migrants who are with us, but as long as we can accept them, we will also provide them, and we will not allow the others to enter Slovenia. In particular, if Austria stops these migrants at their borders, we will respond to relatively the same measures that we had foreseen and communicated in public months ago. This means that we, too, will reject all those migrants on the Croatian-Slovenian border who either come from safe countries or have no other legitimate reasons to enter Austria, Germany or Slovenia as a target country if that were to happen. However, that someone can invoke asylum is an internationally recognised right when Slovenia respects it, but this does not prejudge what the procedure will be like in a particular case. If such a person is found in Slovenia, this does not mean that the automatic punishment of asylum will be granted, because if the procedure proves that it is justified or not justified, it will be followed accordingly. However, I am sure that Slovenia will do everything necessary to protect its interests, comply with the law, but also take these exceptional circumstances into account, take into account the security aspects and take into account all that has been achieved so far, in spite of these strong migratory pressures, the waves remain humanitarian and dignified for the people who have been coming. However, if borders close in Europe, this is something that will disintegrate Europe. That is why we are looking, and that is why I have also put forward this proposal to find a common solution now also in some new dimension, and I think this promises a lot. If this solution were to be adopted, it could be the exit that the entire Western Balkans and the Schengen area could draw from this vortex of unforeseen situations. I would like to stress that the government is doing its best to do everything we can to protect Slovenia and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u19	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u20	I welcome this initiative of yours, this proposal of yours to protect the border in Macedonia, but above all I think that the European institutions here are not working effectively and in a uniform manner, and our ministers should always warn or strive to do so at all meetings. The less the external borders of the European Union are secured, the less internal borders are needed. Because you're saying that we have to respect the laws of migrants, and I'm asking you: Have you personally looked at the Law on International Protection, which is now under parliamentary treatment, because these conditions do not exacerbate anything, but also under the Foreign Act, Slovenia is very broad-minded in the association of family members? And here, even the rights are being extended, and I think it's going to become unsustainable. If, in fact, Germany and Austria meet that quota of migrants, then the interest in Slovenia will increase. We know that online there are also various letters received by these migrants, where they recommend Slovenia as a beautiful country, with appropriate financial assistance and so on. All of this concerns Slovenian citizens very much. That's why I'm asking you: Do you know the details of these two laws because the Law on International Protection even extends the rights of family members? In the event of a request from a large number of asylum seekers, I think this will be unsustainable for Slovenian finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u21	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much, for that additional question. This question is certainly very much in place. We in the government are already thinking intensively about the possibility of amending the Aliens Act, and at all about a regime that would narrow these rights back to family members. This can in fact be a problem in certain situations. This is also a situation to be dealt with in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, which is why some studies on matter themselves are required. But we are already here looking for very concrete solutions if there is a need for them. I also agree with the fact that Slovenia is experiencing this kind of recognition, but some are sending such messages around the world. I think we will absolutely implement our policy, including legislation. It is necessary to know that someone who comes from a safe country, someone who has no reasonable reason to enter Slovenia, if there is a sharpening on the borders north of us, will not be able to enter Slovenia or through a special procedure to be carried out from Slovenia. But I'd say about the asylum policy itself and those conditions. With regard to this offer of benefits, Slovenia also has some financial amounts at the bottom, and we are also in short supply, and there are European directives under which we cannot. There is some minimum that applies to the whole of Europe, that is, the wider space, and here we are committed to it. However, let me point out right now that our arrangement is and is changing in this direction, that it will not invite someone who has no reasonable reason to do so. At all levels, both legislative, operational, field and political levels, we are now looking for and proposing solutions in Brussels and in the Western Balkans, we are carrying out silent diplomacy, public diplomacy in order to resolve these issues in a complex manner. Certainly, however, the matter is not simple, so we are putting forth great effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u23	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u24	Of course, I am not most pleased with this answer because the law on international protection, which is currently in the process, bears witness to the opposite that we are even increasing the possibilities for this union of families, not to talk about the law on foreigners. This needs to be changed immediately, and I think we should also have a real debate in Parliament about how many asylum seekers, how many migrants, how many those who can then stay with us are actually able to accept Slovenia. I think that some other countries have made it clear that we do not know these numbers in Slovenia, we are not talking about this. I think that this debate should also take place in the National Assembly, so I hope that the Members will support this proposal, even though we have discussed this migration crisis several times. However, we did not discuss whether we want to adopt a larger number of foreigners in Slovenia to integrate, or what this migration policy is really like. I therefore propose a debate on this subject in the National Assembly or on an answer with which I am not fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u25	Mrs Ludmila Novak, because I have given you the floor to discuss the answer at the next meeting, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26 January 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. I will ask the President of the Government a question regarding his journey to America and information technology, which was also the subject of this meeting. There are many unclear points and intransparency left. The theme is modern-day, not backward, as the government says for past problems. The point is that the subject is multilayered. The first aspect is political. We are interested in the political preferences of this visit, what Slovenia has gained in this regard and how the reputation has increased. The second aspect is economic where Slovenian companies are, what Slovenian companies have acquired, where their business will be, or only privatisation of public administration. The third aspect is information technology, which means that we must approach the European agenda, whether we are digitalised or we are in line with this agenda, or whether it is incompatible standards. The fourth aspect is security, because we know that many things are escaping in the security field, especially through cybercrime. We also saw one part of this on the last visit of the Hungarian government when the data was leaking. Against this background, we ask the question: What was the purpose of this visit, how did this visit assess who was on that visit, what function, who paid the cost, to what extent? And of course: What has been agreed, for this is particularly unclear as to what were the arrangements, where were the preferences, and is this in line with the principles of public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u27	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u28	Your Honor, thank you for asking me this question. In fact, we went to America in two delegations together, one part was a government delegation, which I led directly, and the other part was a kind of associated economic delegation, with which we were associated at certain events, we acted in a coordinated manner, and at certain events the economists spoke separately from us, but of course coordinated with us. So why did I go to the United States alone to talk to the world's most famous and influential and successful digital corporations? Because it is only in this way that our economists, so with the help of the highest government summit, could come to talk with the highest representatives of these companies, which were IBM, EMC, Oracle, Cisco and so on. Here were the talks at the highest level, so we could sign quite a few agreements, a letter of intent, which I will mention next. In short, this visit, which we were preparing for for almost a year, was more silent to prepare well, was extremely well organised. The goal was: Slovenia wants to survive among the leading European countries in digital transformation in the field of digitisation. Slovenia wants to become a green reference country in digital Europe, which means linking the state and public sphere with the economy and the needs of citizens. I must say, there has been a lot of interest in our visit on the side of these multinationals, and we have experienced extremely positive responses. Memorandums were signed on cooperation with IBM, Microsoft and Oracle Corporations and received letters of intent from EMC and Cisco Corporations. A Memorandum of Cooperation was also signed with HP Slovenia, which also returned to Slovenia because of these activities, because, as you know, HP announced his departure to Croatia, immediately after our visit he decided to stay here and even expand his activities with new jobs. Let me answer some more questions. I attended the government summit, the government delegations, i.e. this government part of the delegation myself, attended by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar, accompanied by the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia from the United States, the Secretary of State for Foreign and European Affairs in my office and the Adviser to the President of the Government for Public Relations. It was the whole team, we reduced it to a minimum, but of course it had to be the minister, because he was most devoted to matter by myself and some economists. The direct costs of the delegation we have provided from the resources of my cabinet, i.e. the cabinet of the President of the Government, amount to EUR 23 000 201. When I said, we signed various agreements and we are currently carrying out very intensive activities in cooperation with these American corporations, which also have these headquarters with us, so that this process continues and develops into what we want to further upgrade Slovenia in this area in order to make Slovenia a model – thus we have greatly impressed these representatives there in America – a model of development, I would say, digitisation also for other countries in Europe and beyond. Let me put it another way, why the political delegation. Just to open the door to the high-level economists, and that was very important. But it was not a political visit to the United States, as some wrote at the time, why we did not meet with the President and others, it was an economic visit. It was to enable Slovenia, in cooperation with these companies that are already cooperating with us, to make this cooperation a significant upgrade. You can look directly at the companies that were with us, such as the representatives of Gorenje, Petrol and others, what their impressions are. Everyone I saw was extremely positive. They see an extraordinary perspective in this cooperation and all these companies are now working on the story that this is spreading, that it is easily brought here in Slovenia and this reference model develops. That would be the basic thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u29	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you. I still feel that the answers are not transparent and do not reflect the actual situation. If I go through the segments. First of all, this political segment. The same visit was made almost a year earlier by the Croatian President with exactly the same institutions and explained the positive effects. A few months earlier, however, the Serbian Prime Minister was there and visited those political representatives and strengthened the political reputation of his country. However, if we say that we will be a reference point, such a reference point in Europe already exists, this is Estonia, which has all these services already well built, and we can look at solutions there. So I don't see these advantages from this point of view. As far as the economic impact is concerned, yes, the arrangements are, but again in public administration, the one who still has money today. I would expect arrangements, agreements with our companies, what they will do for America, and what American companies will do for us. That's what we have to support. In fact, there will be some technological equipment that will then be followed by software — at which price we do not know at all. We are more committed to going to an open-source system that, for example, the European Commission has. And then there's the security area. I'm worried about how the data is going to be leaking, because we already had a similar purchase case at the Ministry of Defence, and the whole projection went wrong. Not to mention the technical aspect at all. We still have a lot of open questions here, and I don't see where Slovenian companies have the advantage here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u31	Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna take my turn. Estonia. I was alone twice in Estonia, once more as a professor, an expert, and now as Prime Minister of the Government. Minister Koprivnikar was more than once. We know very well what Estonia is doing here, which is actually one of the leading countries. We have found that in many ways we have greater potential than Estonia, but we do not know how to exploit them. We have even better digital infrastructure and even more knowledge, but so far we have not taken advantage of this project, so we have embarked on this project with this government to finally take advantage of it. Another time. If you've asked such a direct question, yes, there have been other delegations. Many countries, representations of many countries, all these and many others are going to America. One of the two directors, i.e. the Director-General of one of the largest corporations, told us that no country has ever been as convincing and original in its presentation as Slovenia. So it gives me some hope that we've done our job relatively well by then, and now we're going to continue the story. I can't compete with you on software, you're probably a bigger expert, but I have some experts working intensively on it in a coordinated, economic, public part, i.e. public administration and others. I believe they'll do their job. Finally, let me point out that we have been preparing for this visit for a year and certainly would not have gone with us the highest, indeed competent delegation, i.e. a group of the most respected companies, if we had not seen some great development opportunity. After their responses, I know that this opportunity has been given, and they can take advantage of it now. Regarding security culture, I agree with you, honourable Member, that in Slovenia it is unfortunately too low. Data are leaking from all spheres, including countries. The last time, though, was really the nuisance that the media then focused on when the government met a little wider, but there was no secret meeting, secret data, which was a completely normal government consultation at a level where confidential data is not exchanged. Even though this has occurred, this has had no harmful consequences. It is true that data in Slovenia escapes from everywhere. This is the result of our poor security culture, including the lack of sometimes patriotism, and this lack will have to be addressed, and we will start to realize that the country and security of us and citizens is also a value. I am working very hard on this in person. Believe me, we have also given special attention to the security aspects of these discussions, talked a lot about it and will also be incorporated into the project of digitisation of Slovenia. So we're working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u33	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you. I propose that a debate be held at the next meeting on this subject, because we have not received concrete answers as to who was on the side of the economic delegation's presence. We know that, for example, Petrol and Gorenje are not leading digitisation companies. We don't know why some people were there. We do not know what is going to happen to the digital agenda of Europe, or then we will be compatible with European standards, how we will draw funds, because we know that Europe supports domestic solutions. We don't represent domestic solutions here. This means that if we draw on the resources, these will be the means for the development of the domestic industry. Then server problems, where and how and why servers. The servers, I think we have enough estimates available to the public. Slovenian Post Offices and the rest of the companies – what about these, will they then lose their jobs? Who's gonna keep this up? Is this about renting, or are these servers going to be with us, or are we going to rent this cloud? Because then we know that we can immediately target digital attacks, cyber wars and everything. That's the problem we need to solve. We know that data is leaking, that it is industrial espionage, that somehow in these start-up companies we are successful, and they will steal these solutions. And also that major problem — if we have made these arrangements, then we urgently prefer those who have signed these agreements. What is it now with the calls for proposals and how will companies that were not part of these delegations compete in the calls if we already prefer certain contracts with these letters of intent and similar contracts and will someone be in advantage? I propose that this issue be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u35	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26 January 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Gantar, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Ageing and demographic change are one of the major challenges facing the European Union, and the United Nations is also involved. Large-scale changes will be needed in the coming decades if we are to manage this area. This problem is even more pronounced in Slovenia. We are already outnumbering the European Community average by age. And if we're looking at projections by 2060, every third Slovenian is supposed to be over 65, four times as old as 80. In the area of ageing, we need an effective strategy that will cover a number of policies, and the information we received last week in order to adopt a timetable in the Government is, of course, encouraging. Nevertheless, we have been late for some legislation. Like in the area of health care, the issue of the long-term care law, which is urgently needed today, has been lingering here for almost a decade. If I go to the content, it does not present major problems and is largely coordinated. However, several proposals have been prepared. However, the issue of financing, which we should change if we are to bring this law to life, is being reopened. This is where different positions come in. Some see the possibility of funding through our contributions to the health treasury, which we know is beyond the reach of health care today. To imagine this solution as the main one would mean to step back. I want to know: Does this law also represent a specific priority of this government, is it said that we would soon get it too in the National Assembly? Personally, I believe that without your authority to reach out to these different arrangements between the individual departments, we will not get an appropriate proposal on the table. Where might you see possible sources of funding for this law? Finally, the Act on Personal Assistance and Similar Social Projects, which all share the same problem of funding sources, is in the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u37	President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Ambassador. Indeed, it is an extremely important matter that needs to be addressed as soon as possible, so let me assure you that the preparation and adoption of an appropriate law that will regulate the area of long-term care is a priority of the government for this year. About a week or 10 days ago, I had a meeting where, above all, I asked the Minister of Health and Labour, together with some other experts and ministers where we were, how we were. This is about making some inter-ministerial coordination and cooperation if we are to achieve the desired objective this year, as is necessary. We have set up a work; in fact, there is now a coordination group working to find, in particular, appropriate sources of funding and to harmonise each other. As you know, since 2005, we have been monitoring data on users and financing long-term care. We know that this supply is presented in terms of public and private data for each year. Thus, public resources for the financing of services and benefits intended for the long-term care sector derive from the resources of the ZZZS of the resources of the ZPIZ, the resources of the budget and the resources of the local community budget. On the other hand, we have private funds here that represent direct payments or payments by users and their debtors for various forms of long-term care services, such as home aid and institutional protection in nursing homes. Since the start of the monitoring of expenditure in this area, total resources at annual level have been growing very rapidly and private funds have been growing much faster than public funds. International and domestic analyses of this area point to the fact that funding for long-term care in Slovenia is extremely opaque and fragmented, and consequently insufficiently effective, so all the proposals so far seeking a uniform regulation of this long-term care propose a pooling of existing resources into a single treasury and a solution that will reduce the pressure on the steady rise in private expenditure. This compares then with various sources of funding between some European Union and OECD countries, not to say very directly that thinking about providing funding for long-term care in Slovenia is aimed at financing long-term care, i.e. thinking now, mainly from compulsory public insurance, then with a new resource that would partially reduce the fast-growing expenditure of direct users and cover additional needs – this new resource could be based on a redesigned supplementary health insurance, and this provision could also be financed from private funds and a system of payments, while these private resources should not be unduly burdened by an individual or family with a member who needs long-term care. These are reflections, and this is what we're working on now. These are not yet some solutions, and I am sure that in the coming months we will reach these solutions and then clearly by law, as I said, we will bring this matter to the National Assembly, somewhere in mid-September, and then, of course, you will also give this debate your direct share. According to the latest assessment of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, an additional €90 to €110 million of public funds at the annual level will have to be provided with this new resource in order to implement the new legislation. This is actually a very big challenge and I simply agree with you that it is not a dilemma, this needs to be addressed now. Therefore, let me reiterate that this is a short-term priority for this government and this autumn, I am sure that there will be a law before you that will offer the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u39	Mr Tomaž Gantar, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I hope that the government will not deal too much with the possibility of financing this project or this legislation from the health system. The health system is in serious trouble, the public health system, which is dominant in us, even at the expense of the lack of resources, but not only that, I can agree with that. This vulnerability to financing this system has also been highlighted by the WHO analysis, which proposes diversification of funding as well as the possibility of additional resources and resources, which will need to be addressed. The financing of this social legislation will probably also have to be adjusted in this context. On the other hand, only the relationship between the economy, between GDP and social programmes is possible, we know that they are not in the best correlation. Partly yes, of course, but to a large extent it is a decision. I still believe that this is also a decision by these governments to defend the social state in this way, and that it will not only outweigh the interest of protecting capital against the protection and welfare of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u41	Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I will be very brief because the honourable Member has already offered some direction of thought, which is of course constructive. As you know, our government, in all that it does, expresses this sense and attention for the social state, and this is part of this social state. I also agree with you that the health department is already in some way very burdensome, so that we certainly will not now interfere with another social sphere, in fact break what is good to build something new. Here we will find, I am sure, some durable solution that both systems will be able to move forward for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. However, this thought, or comment, will be part of this thought, and in this place we would stop and move on with our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u43	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar should answer Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question about police employment and negotiation with the police strike committee, but is absent today from the informal meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in Amsterdam. I'm asking Dr. Vinko Gorenak if he insists on an oral response. No, no, no. Then he'll get a written answer. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Magi. Dejan Židan will answer Mrs Violete Tomić's question regarding the setting of technical barriers on agricultural land at the border.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u44	Mr President, honourable Members and other Members present, a nice greeting! I got three questions, thank you for them, and now I want to answer. First, as regards the construction of the fence in 2015, the subsidy payments for 2015 will not be affected. And that's the first fact. Secondly, for the 2016 subsidy year, we expect the European Union to respond. We also immediately sent the question whether we are allowed to consider 2016 as an exceptional year because of the higher power. We don't have an official response yet. However, the informal response goes in this direction that in 2016, since the fence was previously set up and agricultural production is not carried out, they cannot be included in direct payments. On the other hand, as this is considered to be a higher force, this does not affect the implementation of multiannual environmental and other programmes. However, I would like to stress that this is an informal response, so that we can only get an official answer. Since it is expected that the farm will be very actively involved in the preparation of the intervention law, with part of the income. This is a law that speaks of state border control. This law is being prepared by the Government's Law Service in order to make it more precise that the establishment of temporary technical barriers is due to force majeure and with a view to the temporary inability to use and exercise the property right is, in fact, also available to landowners or tenants if the land is owned by a tenant or a tenant or if the holder of the agricultural holding has a land in use. It was also a question of how to deal with wild animals. I'm responsible for the area I'm in charge of. I'm not responsible for beasts. According to our available and well-known information, seven wildlings have been killed by the fence so far, that is six cubs and one deer. Direct coordination takes place between the Hunting Union of Slovenia and the Ministry of the Interior. Until now, crossings have been established in the places where animals come. It's unofficially 40 of these passages. The fences shall be fitted with reverberating and glowing strips to alert the game to the barrier, including chemical repellents and repellents, and no hunting shall be carried out in the area of technical barriers. What's the subject of this deal is a very long list. If you'll give me a chance to ask you another question, I'll read it. But maybe that's all I can read because I believe you'll be interested in what this number seven means. Every animal that dies a heavy death is, of course, an animal too. However, I would just like to say, if we are just looking at deer, in 2015 4 thousand 532 were driven on Slovenian roads by train 100. But if we're looking at deer, we can see that they were transported within a year of 143 deer, with train 73. What I'm trying to say is that animals are getting heavy stuff going on everywhere, not just because of the fence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u45	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you for that answer. You'll have a chance to complete it. The animals that have been driven on the road will be driven now. The wire doesn't prevent it, but I think there's going to be more of these damaged animals. The most worrying is how bears and wolves will pass through this wire, as the wire has interrupted their usual migration routes to the south of Slovenia. But this is about endangered species. At the start of the plantation, both Slovenian and Croatian biologists warned about the problems. Due to damage to the animals by the wire on the blades of the fence, also, on behalf of the network, Plan B for Slovenia also submitted an application to the inspection services, and I am interested in: Are you going to ask the inspector to respond to this call, or are you going to ask the inspector to respond? We expect them to verify the legality of the construction of the fence at the state border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and to be informed of these findings. I also want to know: Has the government obtained the consent of the Forest Institute to build a barbed wire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u47	Mag. Dean Jedhan, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me say again when it comes to the state border control law, including those supplements that will not be envisaged, building permits and so on, because this is an extraordinary event and a temporary event. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to say that the direct operation of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, as the Ministry of the Interior in practice, means that a protocol for cooperation between the Hunting Union and the Ministry of the Interior is being drawn up, as regards wildlings caught in the fence. It is also clear from the monitoring that the proposed transitions are identified. By this time, that is my information, but there were 40 already realized where the game is moving. There is also a special protocol on how the Hunting Union of Slovenia must react. In these cases, I would like to say once again that the construction of the fence was not due to agricultural needs, because of hunting needs, but it is essentially what citizens expect us to prepare the country for a period that may not be as simple as it is at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u49	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you. You're saying the citizens asked for you. Of course, they demanded possible security, but they did not require a cutting wire that threatens mainly the inhabitants, agriculture, the forest and, above all, wildlife. You've seen terrible pictures, and they die in such torment. I think it's incomparable to anything else we see on the roads. Article 21 of the Law on Forests also states that it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Institute for Forests to build buildings and to intervene in a forest area. This also applies to the construction of buildings and operations outside the forest if the effects of the operation of this facility have a negative impact on the forest system and the function of the forest. Article 24 is also the provision that forest fences are allowed only in precisely defined situations and until then the authorisation of the Institute of Forests is required. In short, your barbed wire kills these forest animals. Undoubtedly, it has a very strong impact on the forest ecosystem. I would therefore like to ask once again to discuss this, because very many questions are being asked to the people, especially the people at the border, who are not being answered in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u51	Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26 January 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, should respond to Miha Kordiš's questions regarding Slovenia's response to a French request for military assistance and to Dr. Franz Trček regarding the complexity of the union's operation and the non-coordination of the work of diplomatic representatives. Today, however, he is absent due to his participation in the international conference at the launch of the EU Strategy for the Alpine Macroregion EUSALP in Brdo pri Kranj. I ask the MP if you insist on an oral answer or do you want a written reply from the minister?.Orientally? Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. I've said before that this National Assembly is somehow going in a strange direction, especially in communicating with the government team with us. Quite a few of the water has passed through the rivers represented by Robb's well, which we have these Monday's sessions. The fact is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is probably a little more absent than some other ministers. If I touch only on Thursdays and Fridays on the committees and commissions of this National Assembly. First comes the finance minister who was fired by Mr Cerar. We had a meeting of one committee and one commission moving because of his absence, he shrivels up his apology, and he flees. On Friday, we have an important three-committee meeting, where the Secretary-General does not want me to answer the question whether her ministry is implementing policies on 35,000 people who receive less than €400 a month's pension because we have a general debate and my question is too specific. The invited Director of Umarja won't answer my questions, and then there's the president's explanation that he's invited, he can answer questions or he can't. We always miss a third of the ministerial team. This way of asking questions and answers is already a bit unusual in this House if I compare it with slightly more serious parliaments. Mr President of the Government is today reading prayers to Mihi Kordišu instead of answering questions. It seems to me that this is already very over the edge, Mr President of the National Assembly. We also discussed this in part 14. 1. at the meeting, how to improve the work of the National Assembly, and I hope that this will not happen. If this goes on, I imagine, I don't know, in March, that we will have an interpellation against the Foreign Minister, and the Foreign Minister will justifiably be a percentage. Let us be realistic after all and, of course, I request Mr Karl Erjavac's oral response because he violated a whole series of international conventions and our legislation and got involved in the work of a representative union at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is also responsive in this autumn's UN report on the state of Slovenia. I'll tell you more about that at the interpolation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u53	Part of your procedural procedure should be directed not so much to me at this time, but especially to the Rules of Procedure Commission, as the business arrangements need to be amended in order to be able to react in any other way. But the rest of me, of course, I accept what you just said, and on this basis, the Minister will answer both questions orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are now moving on to the question of Members and Members in the first round. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The village of Györkös Žnidar, which is a majority, and the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister and other representatives of the Government, other ministers, welcome! The migration crisis in Slovenia is getting worse, I can't say anything different than that. In fact, Germany and Austria are changing their regimes at borders. Austria has even gone so far as to limit the upper limit of asylum seekers to its country for this year to 37 000 500. If similar action does not occur in Slovenia, I can say that Slovenia will find itself in a very unloving situation. We now know that 420,000 migrants arrived in Slovenia within four months. We have witnessed, of course, that migrants with Slovenia simply want to cross it. But the ministries are still looking for new housing centres for migrants, i.e. new locations for the accommodation of migrants. One of these potential locations is the Slovenian Army facility in the Municipality of Kidričeva, where about 4 thousand migrants are to be accommodated. On Friday 15 January, the State Secretary for Home Affairs, Mr Šefic, was present at the municipality for a discussion with the mayor, a clear objection as to whether or not the accommodation centre in the municipality of Kidričevo will actually be received until today. However, the people of Kidričevo expressed their intention that the accommodation center in the municipality of Kidričevo for the municipality, as well as for the citizens of neighbouring municipalities, is unacceptable. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State: Is the Slovenian Army facility in the Municipality of Kidrichev still one of the potential new locations for the migrant accommodation centre? Is this facility now empty, or what is in it? Are there any plans for the conversion of the facility to the accommodation centre? Is it possible that public procurement has already been carried out for this purpose? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u55	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u56	Your Honor, Mr. President. Member of Parliament, other Members and Members of Parliament and Ministers. I can only answer the question within the Ministry of Defence's remit. You are aware that our ministry, in the context of the resolution of the migration and refugee crisis, is working with both the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the Slovenian Army in accordance with the plans of the Ministry of the Interior or the Slovenian Police. The management of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue manages the accommodation centres, but does not specify the location. Thus, it does not specify where the accommodation centres or reception centres will be. As part of the verification of possible sites for accommodation centres for migrants, a large number of facilities available to the Ministry of Defence were also verified, as were the facilities of other ministries. And among them is the possibility of using a military warehouse at Kidrichev for these purposes. In doing so, it should be stressed that the decision has not yet been taken and that the Ministry of Defence is currently not carrying out any activities in this direction. In the event of this decision, the Slovenian Army should first provide replacement storage facilities, either within existing military facilities or elsewhere, it is said that it would be possible to empty the storage facility in Kidrič and to relocate the equipment currently located in this warehouse. We expect that a decision on any location for the accommodation centre will be taken in cooperation with the competent local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u57	Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I fully understand that the main competence of the Ministry of the Interior is, therefore, the question has also been addressed to both ministers. Unfortunately, one is missing today, but however it seems to me that at least part of the questions, I would like to ask the other, Madam President, to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. However, I would like to ask you to complete the answer: What's in this military facility right now? Are there already any plans specifically for this facility so that it can be redirected to the accommodation center itself? This is an object that belongs to your department, and I would still like further explanations. Of course, we absolutely do not want this to happen. Finally, there are larger settlements in the area. It is a small congregation and such a number of migrants the congregation absolutely, not the citizens of Kidrič as well as the citizens of neighbouring congregations, do not want. We don't want any change to actually happen here. However, I would like further clarification on your part: What is currently in this facility for what purposes is it used by the military? Are there any plans yet if there is a need to build an accommodation center here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u59	First of all, with regard to the oral response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. The village of Györkös Žnidar in the rest of the time. I now give the floor to Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence, to complete her reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you, President. Dear Member! As I pointed out in the first part, these premises currently serve as storage facilities for the Slovenian Army. Some of the equipment was also provided by the Board of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. Currently, there are warehouses of the Slovenian Army. And if the Government decided to use these premises for the needs of the accommodation centre, the Slovenian Army should provide replacement storage spaces. As far as the plans are concerned, within the Ministry of Defence we have participated in the preparation of various plans for most of the facilities owned by the Ministry of Defence or in the management of the Ministry of Defence and would be possible as a set of capacity for possible adjustment centres. As I said, the plans are being prepared, the decision has not yet been made. In this context, we look forward to a debate at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u61	Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask the same question for the third time. At the November meeting, the Minister was excused to leave. In December, she promised us that the issue of anesthesiologists in the Maribor University Clinical Center would be resolved. We're having a January session now. It's almost February. Over the past year, almost 600 emergency operations were not performed at the Maribor University Clinical Centre due to this problem. I believe or, in fact, I also know that the Minister is working towards this solution. I have said several times in this National Assembly that Slovenia is somehow shared in first-class, second-class, and apparently in certain sectors also third-class. Here, of course, we must also touch on another fact that is usually forgotten. Do you know, in Maribor we also have within the university the Faculty of Medicine and the University Clinical Center, where there is no more operation, which is becoming more and more, just some, so I will say, rehabilitation center, does not carry out its task and also not its title and somehow reduces the possibility of transferring practices, knowledge to future doctors and doctors, which, of course, we will need. Now I want an answer from the Minister: Where's the thing, by the way, stuck? When will she be saved because she definitely needs to be rescued as a matter of urgency? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u63	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you also for the question, Mr Trček. It is true that you have already asked me this question, so allow me to continue where I have completed my last answer and to tell you where the key problem is, which may not be heard in the public. But let me do this because, at this time and together, the entire ministry has been very active in solving this problem, because the problem is also of a somewhat broader nature, especially as regards the recommendations or standards it gives or set up by the Expanded College of Experts for Anesthesiology in Slovenia, and because, of course, these recommendations are one that deviate from the average practice of anesthesiologists abroad and because these recommendations require that we have one specialist anesthesiologist on one bed, which is not the case in other European countries. But if you'll excuse me, we ended the last time I told you that there would be a meeting and it was called for November 26th on the subject, and this meeting was at the doctor's room. It was attended by all actors, including UKC Maribor, Medical Chambers of Slovenia, which carried out extraordinary professional supervision in this area, as well as the head of this Expanded College, and adopted certain conclusions and actions, which have already been partially taken into account by UKC Maribor. It is true, however, that, from 26 November, the working group entrusted with the Medical Chamber has not been convened to date. That is why I have taken over, I would say, the initiative and role and the Ministry of Health here has been offered as some kind of mediator between the UKC leadership and the work of the profession in order to settle the matter. There was a 30th meeting in between. 12. We have invited other hospitals to come to help with anesthesiologists in UKC Maribor. I think the response was relatively poor, with 8 anesthesiologists responding from all regional hospitals except UKC Ljubljana. You probably had the opportunity to hear from Mr Pivc that it was stuck in the payment of the hour item because the anesthesiologists from UKC Ljubljana were not satisfied with the offer offered by Mr Pivec. By the way, I think he offered 42 euros gross, which is the maximum limit allowed for paying that hour. At the same time, of course, out of 26 anesthesiology specialists in the meantime 22 have already passed a special examination during this specialisation. We had a rejoined meeting last week, so things are starting to normalise. We have agreed that we will also enter imports if necessary. Let me say that there were 249 anesthesiologists from the countries of the European Union, some of them from Croatia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria. So we will solve this problem after two wages, after one salary we will go into this invitation to import a certain number of anesthesiologists, secondly, and this has already been resolved, as Mr Pivec told me the previous day, that they are actually negotiating with their leadership of anesthesiology that those who have passed the exam will be included, and 22 of them, besides regular 18 are already included under the special programme in the duty stations. And we made another agreement, so tomorrow, Wednesday, but there is a mixed group of surgeons and anesthesiologists, because in Slovenia it is necessary to change and thoroughly adapt the European criteria for these standards and recommendations, how many anesthesiologists we really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u65	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thanks for the explanation. Now, I hope that this question will not have to be repeated for the fourth time, but from what you have said, I can also honestly say from our half-formal conversations, it is very clear to us that we have a systemic problem that you inherited. Just like we have a systemic problem in higher education, we have it in health care. We have the Medical Chamber, we have some gentlemen who have a lot of sense of money, in their own words, and the fact that the department of the department has to appear as an intermediator between this gentleman and the University Clinical Centre or some other hospital, the next time there is a similar problem, shows that we actually have some big systemic problem that needs to be solved. And perhaps it should be resolved in a way that will transfer co-decision on public health personnel policy as long as we have it, I hope that we will have it, to another decision-making matter. Maybe if you could tell me more about it, even though I know I'm spreading the question. But I will not call for public debate, but I expect this, as do people, because I am chosen to resolve this issue. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u67	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you for that extra attitude. Indeed, you are quite right, Mr Member, these are problems of a systemic nature which, in the part of the allocation or legal allocation, have powers to tender specialisations on the one hand and, of course, on the competence of individual heads of public health institutions which do not have in certain parts of the instruments how they can manage human resources policy. Unfortunately, there are also trade unions in this part, whose representatives are from this profession, and the fact is that we will also try to move things with this working group, so that we can get European comparable standards for anesthesiologists in Slovenia, and then through the Health Council, if it is not good will, so that this Expanded College can change it, we will try to change it through the Health Council. And then the matter will be settled and suddenly we will have enough anesthesiologists in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u69	Mrs Anita Koleša, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalška.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Of course I welcome both ministers. However, I would like to ask Mr Zdravek Pozvalski a question. In the public it is possible to spot a number of controversy about the possible resolution of an important Slovenian trader, of course it is a merchant or a large trading chain of Tuš. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has joined the solution within its powers, I think, responsible and ordered a feasibility study on the economic eligibility of the restructuring of Tuš to the Consumer Cooperation. Tuš is the third largest trading chain in Slovenia. But we do know that the company is heavily indebted. According to media reports, banks are expected to owe more than EUR 400 million, and additionally, Tuš is expected to owe suppliers around 122 million. I believe that, despite this, all citizens agree that the existence of one of the biggest Slovenian traders is so important that it is worth discussing how and how this trading chain can be maintained. Not only does Tuš employ more than 3 000 people, but he plays an extremely important role in the agro-food industry in Slovenia and also enables the survival of many Slovenian suppliers. In this regard, I am interested in: Could you briefly present this study on the feasibility of a business model in the field of cooperatives and these measures that you are considering with a view to determining the economic viability of the restructuring of the Tuš company, which we find to be the only Slovenian trader currently providing access to the market mainly or mainly to Slovenian suppliers, thus contributing to the preservation and, of course, the development of the Slovenian agri-food sector? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u71	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Initially, allow me to correct you in your question, namely, the study was commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology not by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but with the aim of obtaining an expert opinion and preparing the appropriate basis for the justified alternative business model of the cooperative, as one of the possible solutions for the restructuring of Tuš. In short, I would like to present that the study consists of three parts, an analysis of the economic situation in the agri-food sector, a presentation of alternative models of society and of purely concrete options that could be relevant for the recovery of this company. The analysis of the economic situation in the agri-food sector suggests that the sector of Slovenian retail trade is in the stage of intensive transformation, that this transformation is initiated for two reasons, through the aggressive and successful entry of two leading global discount traders into Slovenia and through ownership changes in our largest trader. With sector-specific changes, retail trade is experiencing the systemic consequences of the economic and financial crisis. It is clear that despite the increase in the number of enterprises in this sector, the number of employees after 2009 is decreasing and the added value has also decreased, with positive trends only in 2014. In the last five years, there have been significant structural changes with the decline in shares estimated by the British company of the discount chain Lidl and Hofer to have resulted in a 25% share in these two discounts of Mercator’s leading trader being around 30%, Spar 16.6%, Engrotush 13.1%. The previous certification, as you said, is either a merchant of Slovenia or not, this is a broad discussion, but we definitely cannot agree to an assessment that someone verbally says that the Slovenian trader is by goods sold in their shops are the best Slovenian trader at this point in E. Leclerc and Mercator, still. In short, the positioning of Slovenian suppliers on the retail food market is so much more difficult due to the change in ownership of the former largest Slovenian trader, so this is an additional problem for our Slovenian food suppliers. Therefore, the primary desire of Slovenian food processing companies and other suppliers to reach competitive trade and stable business operators who will carry out their mission properly. Co-operation, as a business model in the developed world in the Western economy, also constitutes an appropriate alternative to corporate governance. Various contemporary forms of cooperatives reveal different forms of ownership. It has to be said that these shares are different, but we don't have this model around. The variables presented in this study are as follows. The possibilities of transformation of the company into a consumer cooperative are being explored, and therefore there is too little time and too little volume. In combination with consumer cooperatives and supply cooperatives – here we record the willingness of suppliers to transform in this direction, but this also does not ensure successful recovery of the already mentioned over 500 million debts. And thirdly, the only sustainable model that we will examine below is the combination of a consumer-supply cooperative combined with the entry of a strong foreign partner from this cooperative area. In short, activities are being carried out in this area and if we reach an economically sustainable model, we will continue these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u73	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello to the Minister. You are probably aware, although you were not the Minister of Education at the time, that on 20 January 2015 it was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, item on Adult Education in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, the Committee unanimously adopted three conclusions, including two decisions which somehow oblige the Ministry of Education to carry out all the procedures for the reform of the legislation and the regulation of the public network in the field of adult education in the year and the end of 2015 and to report on this in early 2016 on what has been done in this area. Given that until today, at least I have not received any official documents, confirmations, explanations of what the Ministry has done and what it intends to do. I want to know: Which way is the preparation going? When can we expect systemic solutions in the area of the regulation of the public adult education network? In fact, in Slovenia we know 34 human universities that are currently living, one more, the other less, one before being closed, the other say that for about two months, three will be able to cope with the finances they have, and also with the programs, I must say. Indeed, for more than two years, the ministry has not called for any new projects in this area, it is financed only by salary payments or projects that are somehow running throughout the year, but that is true, I will say, small financial resources and small content or content to a lesser extent. I would specifically like to ask: Where, how far is the ministry in this area? When exactly can we expect the regulation of the public network and stable funding for adult education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u75	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u76	Dear President, Your Honor, House of Honor! The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has already prepared amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, ZOFVI, which were adopted by the Committee at the beginning of the year in December 2015: "The public network of public adult education organisations must be organised to enable adults to complete primary school, to participate in the public education programme for adults and to organise the activities necessary for the implementation of public education programmes for adults." Why is this article cited in this way? In the area of adult education, a number of programmes and activities have been developed in the past period, in line with the Committee's discussion, which provide particularly vulnerable groups with more effective integration into the lifelong learning process. Thus, the Ministry and the Minister responsible for education has already adopted, in cooperation with the competent professional council, 7 specific adult education programmes, such as life performance training, computer literacy, Slovenian for foreigners, foreign languages, project learning for young adults. These are aimed at particularly less educated and other vulnerable groups of adults. In particular for these groups, it is necessary to create opportunities for information and advice on the possibilities of education and evaluation of previously acquired knowledge and to raise educational levels at least for compulsory education levels. With this provision, which we have proposed, we would like in particular to create an appropriate support environment. Of course, the operators mentioned above are also included here. In particular, that these programmes are also adequately supported by the opinions of the expert council and that, of course, the support environment is such as to inform, guide, advise. The establishment of the support environment itself also includes a clear definition of the public network as already defined in the 11th proposed article, as well as public education services. The aim is in fact to ensure a stable and quality implementation of the adult primary school programme, because this is, however, the same value that the state provides to all citizens, of course, even to adults, if they have not achieved it during compulsory education. Let me also say that in the Annual Adult Education Programme 2016 there are 14 million euros, of which 6 million are from integrated sources and 8 million resources from cohesion resources, or a new financial perspective, just to continue successful projects and, of course, also the possibility of opening new calls for proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u77	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you so much for that. I'd still be able to, Minister: When do you expect or plan to adopt this legislation? In fact, as I mentioned, 34 people's universities waiting for these 14 million this year out of calls, something from an integrated, we know that something goes directly from an integrated, something also on projects. In fact, like I said, a lot of them live, some of them before closing. In particular, I can talk about the Šentjur Human University, where the mayor decided to simply attach the human university to another institution, despite the fact that this human university is successful, according to finance, content and so on. The reason is that if the government takes the averages, we don't have the money, and now we're going to close public institutions and connect. This means that if the public network is not soon established, it will not be the only human university that will come in handy in this context, I will tell the mayors that these public institutions will simply be abolished. As you yourself said, adult education should be an important part of the development of our society. This is that primary school is important, I agree, but you need to know that there are fewer and fewer primary schools that have not been completed. And he'll be here sooner or later. If a human university does not have a primary school, it may not have a PUM, but whether we will capture all 34 in the public network and when I will capture them, because I will say, adult education will somehow disappear as soon as possible, if this is not done as soon as possible, it will have something simple after two years and a half of the non-financing by projects, because most of them live on projects, but not on these issues, secondary school programs have gone to high school and the problem is very big here. [[…]] I would have expected, given that the decision had been taken last year, that this legislation was somehow prepared at least in the rules or here we still have the Adult Education Act. I'd ask, maybe if I could be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u79	Minister for Science and Sport Education Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u80	As regards the proposal for the amendment of the ZOFVI itself, this public debate is closed. Of course, we will proceed without delay to go into adoption as soon as possible for other reasons, records and so on, as we propose in these changes and, of course, to create a basis for further development and for as small a period of interruption as possible of the ongoing projects. This is also because, of course, the new financial perspective comes with a delay. In fact, all these proposals for new programmes are being prepared in an accelerated manner during these weeks in the field of public networks, which will then be able to apply for these calls. So that, on our part, everything is really running now very actively and we will be striving for a solution as soon as possible, and especially for adoption here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u81	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have a word, a request to ask, ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, which is a percentage, so I ask if you want an oral or written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want an oral response. I assume this will be at the next meeting of the National Assembly. I would also like to ask the Minister about the institutional protection of the elderly. All of us in Slovenia want the elderly to have the option of equal opportunities to use institutional protection services, so I ask the Minister: How many concessions are granted in the Republic of Slovenia for the institutional protection of the elderly? Please, if information can be given by area or by administrative unit. How many of these concessions are still unrealised, which means that homes, that concessions have not yet been granted and homes have not yet been built? How many concession applications do you have at the Ministry? When will concessions be awarded where the actual need and all other parameters for awarding concessions are already in place? What is the employment capacity in institutional protection homes, both in public and in private with the concession? Of course, I would like to thank you for your answer, and for the following meeting, I also have additional questions. Thank you very much. Lip.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u83	Mr Franc Jurša, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, especially the two ministers who are sitting here with us! Dear Minister of Defence, I have recently been warned by Slovenian officers that no member of the Slovenian army has been able to advance to a higher rank in the top 90s. The question of this leadership is raised by its members at a number of conferences and other meetings. By explaining that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted such regular ones that make this impossible, of course they are no longer satisfied. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary. In 2016, when we celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence, can we expect such additions or amendments to the Rules on the Advancement of Petitioners and Officers, which will go towards the advancement of mainly active members of the Association of Slovenian Officers and Veterans, who were not in active composition of the Slovenian Army, but were on important duties in the then Territorial Defence and, of course, in the Defence Administrations? I am thinking about the possibilities for the extraordinary advancement of members of the Association of Slovenian Officers and Veterans, who are not active members of the Slovenian Army on the upcoming anniversary. I agree that certain criteria shall be drawn up for extraordinary progress. Otherwise, the state’s advancement costs absolutely nothing to individuals, officers, officers and veteran organisations, and this would be a great recognition for the encouragement. At the same time, this would also be the promotion of the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u85	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you, President. Dear Member. In recent years, promotions in action for certain categories of military bonds have been repeatedly addressed to the Ministry of Defence by the Union of Officers and Veterans for the War on Slovenia in particular. In those proposals, an extraordinary increase is proposed mainly in the following categories of military bonds, namely, officers and under-soldiers who participated in the self-sustainment war, military bonds who, in the context of the service of the military period after the independence of the military units, had not received an officer's rank, and members of the Slovenian Army who had retired before 2007, after the adoption of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, which allowed for the extraordinary advancement of officers and sub-satellites for one act at the time of retirement. This is not only for members of the Union of Slovenian Officers, but for several categories of former members of the Territorial Defence or the Slovenian Army, whose promotion has not been made for various reasons. In order to find a suitable solution, I have already met with representatives of both the Union of Slovenian Officers and the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia. The previous reservations at the Ministry of the Interior for the implementation of such an increase were mainly of a legal nature. The increase in figures in the Slovenian Army is regulated at the general level by the Defence Act, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army and more specifically by the Act on Facts and Increases in the Slovenian Army. Those rules set out the circumstances in the Slovenian Army and the conditions and procedures for the award of rank and promotion, retention of promotion and withdrawal and withdrawal of acts. The proposed categories for exceptional increase in the performance of these conditions do not meet. The initiative concerns military personnel who are not assigned to duties in the permanent or reserve composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and thus do not meet the basic legal conditions. The same applies to the granting of duties to persons who have completed a school for military officers and who have not been granted the rank of officer. The obstacles, therefore, are not only the internal rules of the Ministry, as has been said several times, but also a change of law, according to the defence ministry's lawyers, would be necessary to carry out such an extraordinary increase. We currently have two activities at the Ministry of Defence under this initiative. One thing is that, in the context of the drafting of the new Defence Act, we are examining how and for which categories would still be able to introduce such an increase exceptionally, taking into account the fact that this is a sensitive issue that needs to be addressed in order to avoid the possible impact on the career system in the Slovenian Army. Secondly, in the cooperation of external lawyers, if I say so, the Government's Legislative and Legal Services, we will also re-examine what changes or procedures are needed in order to make this initiative possible this year at the celebration of the 25th anniversary of independence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u87	Mr. Franz Jurša, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u88	I demand a follow-up. I strongly agree with the Minister's response, but I would say so. The legal basis, which is simply not enabling certain matters, does not say anywhere that we could not come to these changes with common strong ones and that my proposal would not be implemented either. Let me just say, for example, some officers who are not in the Slovenian Army had their time even higher rank than they have now. We are aware that the first-class captains were then first-class captains, that even the rank was reduced to a captain or to a captain at the time in the Territorial Defense, and that they were already performing various duties that required a significantly higher rank than they had. They do the same as Major, Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel. Of course, this means that the act was automatically reduced and this matter would be an ideal opportunity for these groups, of course, to be able to correct what happened to them in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u89	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you, President. Dear Member, maybe we didn't get along very well. We did not say that we would not work in this direction at the Ministry so that this initiative could be implemented. That's why we do two. If the legal profession considers that this cannot be settled without amending the Defence Act, it could be introduced into the new Defence Act in the transitional and final provisions. This category, which you have now pointed out in the end, is in fact the fourth category, is said to have different positions. All of this needs to be systematically pursued, even because there is some opposition within the system, I have decided to look at and examine this matter with lawyers outside the system. You must understand, however, that we must have legal regulations, some legal basis, that this has also been done, and I believe that we will find a solution to this initiative in some way. Unless otherwise, at least in the case of self-reliance to those members who have acted in this area, there is a certain recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Water management, in my opinion, is extremely bad in Slovenia, in certain segments I could say that even catastrophic. Of course, the master here is a country and, as a result, I can see that the country is an extremely bad host. With the new year, within the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have a new water directive, which is intended to manage this area better, better, better. I'd point out two segments. Of course, water management first to solve all the flood causes. For we know that today, more or less, all the watercourses are as small as the larger, extremely windy nature, and they swim, and I would say, almost every rain. In most years, however, these watercourses are completely dry. That's what we say, we don't know how to keep the water, and we don't know how to make good use of it. The second segment, which I think is still very important in this period, I see an economic and business perspective. We use the water absolutely to a large extent. If I say so, we have two of the greatest natural goods in Slovenia. It's wood. Of course, we sell this round one to Austria, and in fact we get very little out of it. And water. This one flows to Croatia and we do not take advantage of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question: What are the basic tasks and measures of the newly established Water Directorate, in particular in terms of what economic aid should be in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space to give her an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u94	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Member Mr Ljubo Žnidar! Before I go to listing the basic tasks and actions of the newly established Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water, I would agree to your implementation of how water management is not appropriate. Yes, this issue needs to be addressed more intensively. However, I would like to say that floods caused by weather events, namely climate change, we know that they are not only affecting Slovenia, but also the whole world, and affect different countries around the world in different periods. Here I feel that this aspect must, however, be presented or taken into account in this debate. Otherwise, with the establishment of the Water Directorate, which represents a thorough reorganisation in the implementation of the water management process, this year and with the start of the year, the reorganisation is not yet completed and is under way. The aim, however, is to ensure effective and professional water planning and management. In accordance with the decisions adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all management tasks in the field of water are combined at the Directorate of Water Management with the staff redeployment of experts from the Office of Water Management of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia and the Directorate of Water and Investment in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The aim of the establishment of the Directorate is to establish a water management system that enables them to manage them in an integrated manner, taking advantage of the water potential of Slovenia as a development opportunity, water management as a permanent resource and reducing the risk of life, health from the property of the inhabitants. It must ensure the effective implementation of administrative procedures, the regular maintenance of water infrastructure and the preparation and implementation of investments in water management. The integrated water management system must be organised and staffed at national, regional and local level. It must also provide conditions for effective public service delivery, investment management and cooperation with professionals and stakeholders. Within these powers, the Directorate shall carry out tasks that are likely to have an indirect positive impact on the economy, which include increasing flood safety, thereby reducing the flood risk of the population and the economy, resulting in less damage due to flood events. The key tasks of the Directorate include more efficient implementation of administrative procedures and preparation of new rules and changes to existing rules with the aim of simplifying authorisation procedures in the event of minor interventions or less-impact interventions. As a result, faster deposit resolution and administrative acquisition are expected to be allowed for investors. As well as providing greater financial resources for regular maintenance as well as for investments in water infrastructure, to ensure flood safety, Slovenian construction companies can be given an opportunity. The Directorate will also carry out tasks related to the long-term plan for integrated water management as a resource as part of its work. The priorities of the Directorate are: to prepare the content of key water management programming documents for efficient and transparent water management, to provide financial and human resources to finance water management with a view to effective public service delivery and to make the necessary investments to reduce flood risk, to participate in the implementation of international treaties and international projects, and to obtain European funds for investments in water management.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! Nevertheless, I would like to continue with the question. I agree that all natural disasters or major harm cannot be managed and that there is a need for a systematic process of how to manage them. We are familiar with the practices of water retention management in a contributing flood area where each house with a building permit gets exactly how much per roof area each individual owner must retain for a certain period of time, what amount of water. In short, the cases are known. That's not new. This should be included in the way in which the system measures retain certain water, that it is not cumbersome, that it is not flooding. I would like to continue, in particular, in the field of economics. The Water Directorate shall issue a permit for direct use of water for the production of electricity with an installed power of less than 10 kilowatts, that is to say small hydropower plants. But here's 120 deposits that are still on hold, which are not yet saved. These procedures are too complicated and could, in fact, be halted by the construction of these small hydropower plants, slowing down a certain flow of water and thus reducing flood safety. So here's where I'm interested: What are these measures actually going to be to make these applications more successful and to give the economy an opportunity to do business here? For we know that there is much possibility here, but I also agree that there is a need to intervene wisely in nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space to complement her response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you. You yourself, honourable Member, have stated that watercourses are unfortunately sometimes overcrowding and flooding, but for most of the year they are in fact empty and are below a level that provides life in a watercourse. This is mainly because we have a similar problem in issuing consents for the construction of small hydroelectric plants. The procedure is to amend this Regulation, providing for a minimum flow. In fact, the minimal flow is one that enables life in this unspoiled nature, where these objects are usually built. Regardless of protected areas, it is also actually about providing life opportunities for organisms living in water. This other matter related to ensuring water retention — yes, as citizens, as people living in the countryside, of course, by collecting rainwater, we can do useful work twice; on the one hand, at the time of the major inflows, we can keep this water and use it for irrigation during the drought. For agriculture, we will now work within the framework of the preparation of these projects and within the study to increase the possibility of construction of wet restraints, i.e. restraints that go beyond the basic flood-related watercourse. These buffers have less impact on the agricultural areas themselves, so they are removed from these processing areas and could certainly provide the necessary irrigation water during the drought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Branko Grims will ask a question from the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent. Please clarify whether you want it in writing or orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u100	Yes, thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Since I have no doubt in my mind that Minister Mr Mumorr is ready, I would like an answer as soon as possible, even in writing. The question I am going to ask is certainly one that should be one of the key in shaping government policies concerning illegal migrants. And I want to know: What is the actual amount of the total direct and indirect costs or damage caused by the unnecessary cooperation and exposure of Slovenia in this migratory flow? Indeed, the fact is that under the Geneva Convention, which, I firmly believe, most of those who decide to do so do not even know, nor do they know the circumstances of its adoption, no State is obliged to accept any asylum-seekers or migrants themselves. That's interesting, and probably a lot of people hear that for the first time. Anyone who does not believe that he should go and look at the debates at the time of the adoption of this basic charter. In practice, it is being implemented today in such a way that it is in fact a duty in some way, but also this commitment is merely moral or political, accepting a migrant or asylum-seekers the first country that directly borders an area in which individuals are at risk either of their fundamental human rights or of their direct life or existence. In no case does this Slovenia exist and cannot be. And that makes all of this unnecessary, and all of the damage is unnecessary. However, the unnecessary damage caused by the poor government policy in the area of the migrant crisis is enormous. The one that is direct is, of course, checked with budget items and with direct costs, and the indirect is, of course, hidden in two parts. One thing will happen when we are, because we are actually already excluded from Schengen, at least in the form that once became the Chamber of Commerce has calculated the damage of a few million and the potential damage of 55 million if it is only to change some minds about the tourist visit to Slovenia. [[..]] And of course another is that indirect damage occurs when entrepreneurs do not invest, because fear is the strongest movement, and people store their money at home or in larger banks. What does that mean? Money doesn't circulate and it doesn't run the economy. It's a shame that's coming, but it's permanent. And this damage to Slovenia will certainly not be reimbursed. And I am interested – and I firmly believe that everyone in Slovenia – is the height of this damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Please also clarify whether you want a written reply or at the next oral meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u102	Yes, of course I expect an oral response. At the same time, I must express my disappointment that I have the feeling that the Government is falling apart, that there are virtually no more ministers here to answer the questions. However, my question is as follows. We all know that the social situation in Slovenia is deteriorating; poverty in Slovenia is increasing. We are reminded of this by civil society organisations, and I am also a Member of Parliament. There will be an urgent need to take certain measures that will turn the issue into the favour of the most vulnerable groups. On the basis of a document we are Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of 18. 1. 2016 received by the movement of the New Millennium and based on a document where the sociologist Dr. Srečko Dragoš from the Faculty of Social Work points out that in the period in which authoritarian positions have become very widespread, there has also been a great increase in poverty. It points out that poverty has increased faster than in EU countries over the whole period of the crisis – Slovenia has increased poverty by 3.2%, which means 28.3% increase – and adds that Greece was only second only. So Slovenia was ahead of Greece. For example, in times of crisis, Finland reduced poverty by 14.5%, and if we compare the Czech Republic, we can find that the Czech Republic is constantly reducing poverty both during the period of growth and the crisis. So it's not a question of whether it's possible or not, the question is whether we know it and we want it or not. At the same time, it points out, of course, that the increasing proportion of poor children is also increasing. And what's most worrying is that poverty of the poor is getting worse. There are more and more families who fall into poverty. This is certainly enough alarming information to warn us all that words are too small and that urgent action is needed and must be taken immediately. That's why I'm asking: What, then, will the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons do to turn this issue into the best interests of the most vulnerable groups? How, when and with what solutions will the government really begin to resolve this critical and inhuman situation in our society? Of course, at the same time, I expect to receive an oral answer to this question at the next meeting of the National Assembly, and I hope that the government will not fall apart at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will ask the question of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to Mr Zdravek Počivšku. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Minister, Minister, Members, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Dear Minister, between 9 and 12 January of this year you responded to the invitation of the Iranian Minister for Industry, Mining and Trade, and with the economic delegation of 46 Slovenian entrepreneurs you also rushed to visit Iran. Strengthening economic cooperation between Slovenia and Iran, which has already been very intensive in the past, is of great interest to the Slovenian economy. The country with 80 million inhabitants for Slovenia represents the fifth most important economic partner among the Persian Gulf countries. During the visit, bilateral meetings were held with Iranian ministers and other bilateral meetings, as well as the opening of the Gorenje sales salon in Tehran and the offices of four Slovenian companies in Iran, namely Iskrattel, Comita, Riko and Duol. Monday, 11. In January, Iran-Slovenia Business Forum was also held between Slovenian and Iranian companies. Day 10. 1. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Tehran, you signed a memorandum between the Slovenian and Iranian governments on cooperation in the field of energy. Mr. Secretary, in this regard, I would like to know: What are the specific commitments to this visit? Where are the essential opportunities for strengthening business relations in particular? Are additional visits planned? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Pavlovalski, for his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u106	Mr President, Mr Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Iran, as you said, a large country with 80 million inhabitants, and Iran and I worked 100 million euros a year before the imposition of the sanctions, trading down to 20 million at the time of the sanctions. At the time of our visit with a number of economic delegations of 46 entrepreneurs in the Islamic Republic of Iran, we were admitted to eight ministries, of which six ministers and two deputy ministers, and we have a new business diplomatic practice since Vietnam, that companies are also present in these interviews, given the particular issue and that they also receive a word in a significant part of this meeting for a concrete presentation of plans or problems that they have experienced in a particular country. We have met with the Minister for Industry and Mining and Trade, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the Minister for Energy, the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Communications and Information Technology, the Deputy Minister for Oil and Gas and the Deputy Minister for Roads and Urban Development and the chairmen of the Committee for the Development of Tourism and Cultural Heritage. They have been signed, as you said, by two memoranda on economic cooperation and cooperation in the field of energy, resulting in a series of further activities in specific areas. In both cases, an Iranian-Slovenian working commission will be set up to identify key areas and projects of common interest in which both representatives of government institutions and representatives of the economy will participate. On the basis of the signed memoranda, we agreed to strengthen the exchange of business, economic information, to participate in the organisation of fairs, exhibitions, symposiums and similar events, to promote trade in goods and services, to promote Slovenia's joint investment in Iran, as well as long-term participation in industry, infrastructure, telecommunications, energy, transport, environmental protection and tourism. In the context of the meetings, the options for strengthening economic cooperation and investment in energy, logistics, agriculture and information and communication technologies, electricity, automotive industry, building and equipping of hotel infrastructure, tourism, science and technology and in this context in particular nanotechnology were considered. The wide range of sectors of the participating representatives of the Slovenian economy, which also participated in ministerial meetings, offered the Iranian side a range of opportunities to participate, especially in the modernisation projects of the Iranian economy. Their condition for cooperation is triple: that technology, services or whatever we offer is at a high technological level; secondly, that we are able to monitor this issue financially; therefore, the financial sphere of our economy, the director of the SID bank, was also included; and thirdly, those who are willing to do something and invest in Iran itself will have the advantage. They also gave additional weight to the opening of the office of four Slovenian companies, as you said, Riko, Duol, Comita and Izkratel. And we opened Gorenje's exhibition salon in Tehran. An important issue was the meeting of Slovenian economists and the business conference in the framework of Iran's Chamber of Economics, so that at the edge of the business conference a contract was signed between the Slovenian and Iranian companies working together on the Iranian market in the field of information and communication technologies, and in particular innovative solutions for mobile payment. Of course, it is a condition for all of us to reopen the Slovenian Embassy in Tehran, for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already made a decision, reserved funds and I believe that this year will also happen. We also visited the largest, one of two, but larger car factory, which manufactures in cooperation with Peugeot from France a million and a half cars a year. In short, I believe that this visit is the beginning of a new era in Slovenian-Iranian relations, also because Slovenia does not have any specific agenda in terms of Eastern or Western policy, but we come only with concrete content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone in the hall! The draft resolution on the national health plan 2016-2025 was submitted to us by Members of the National Assembly in December 2015. This resolution will certainly be the basis for the adoption of laws in the field of health and health insurance law below. Representatives of the Ministry, the National Institute for Public Health and the Department of Health Insurance participated in the working group in the preparation of this resolution. In preparing this resolution, the Group has taken into account the proposals from the public debate and has also taken into account the conclusions of a number of consultations and discussions, at least as indicated at the beginning of this resolution. The motion for a resolution was also submitted to a public debate in June before the submission itself, and this public debate was opened until the end of August. Everything's fine and fine up here. But in the Resolution on the National Plan, we begin with the following text: "The final text proposal also takes into account the results of the analysis of the health system in Slovenia, including the review of health expenditure." And what's the problem? See, the resolution was prepared last year in June, which was put into public debate in July and August. The public debate was also concluded in August. We got her on the table in December. The analysis of the health system was commissioned in June last year and presented for the first time in January 2016. The introduction of this analysis also states: "The results of the analysis of the health system gave rise to a resolution on the national health plan." It is also stated in the analysis itself that it will be a special publication, this analysis was not published until 2016. I do not know, Minister, tell me, I do not understand this: On the basis of the results of the analysis of the health system, which was published in January 2017, a resolution will be prepared which was published in June 2015. I don't understand it, but I don't think I'm the only one. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u110	Madam Member, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, thank you for the question. As you know, both the analysis of the Slovenian health system and the work on the resolution were carried out in parallel or at the same time. As part of the analysis of the health system, the so-called Health Expendition Reviews or Analysis of Slovenian Health Expenditures were prepared, for which Slovenia had already received a so-called Country Specific Recommendation or a special recommendation or request from Slovenia two years ago to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the health expenditure of the Slovenian health system. It is true that the analysis went to other parts of health care and looked specifically at the accounting, management, management, financing. As a result, we have extended this analysis in addition to health expenditure to other areas, which means that the matter has stalled and has expanded significantly. As soon as you have, I hope and I believe, that a comprehensive analysis will be completed and published on our websites on February 1st, but you have already received a brief summary of the findings in Slovenian and English, you will be able to see how comprehensive and comprehensive this analysis has been, one of the most extensive of all the countries of the European Union. The resolution has already taken into account the results of this first part, the so-called Health Expendition Reviews, as well as individual parts, because you need to know that this analysis was completed before the time, but, of course, it takes time to translate this analysis. The fact is, unfortunately, that the first translation was not appropriate, appropriate, which is why things have also been delayed with the complete translation. In fact, the results of this analysis as well as individual recommendations are taken into account already in the resolution. In fact, this resolution document was coordinated and comments were made by more than 90 stakeholders, the Medical Chamber, the Medical Society, the Medical Institutes Association, the Health Treasury, the Associations of Associations 25 times 25 and many others not to list them. A number of interviews and meetings were also held. We have taken into account all the substantive comments and additions. Let me mention that the first motion for a resolution was submitted to the Economic and Social Council on 19 July and then to the final proposal on 18 December. The Medical Chamber was also presented and a meeting was organised on 8 July 2015. The company also made written comments. So the resolution is a work, a comprehensive vision for the future for the next 10 years of all key actors and stakeholders in Slovenian health care. Let me mention that in the analysis, mainly in the so-called fourth and fifth working groups, one was involved in accounting models, in the way health services are paid, and one with funding, as well as in the working group and in the project board, the mentioned stakeholders are also included. Indeed, the resolution includes all the key findings and recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u111	Mrs Nada Brinovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u112	I'm sorry, Your Honor, but I didn't understand if you'd answered my question. Look, the question I have addressed to you relates to this: How the resolution could have been prepared on the basis of an analysis of the health system you ordered in June 2015. However, you have already put the resolution into public hearing in June 2015. That's what I'd really like, just one sentence of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Minister Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u114	The analysis of health expenditure in Slovenia was prepared in response, as I said, at the request of the European Commission and was essentially prepared before that. However, it has joined in a comprehensive analysis, at least the official request, as you mention, but you know that a number of activities need to be prepared first in order to satisfy legislation when preparing and ordering such demanding projects as this analysis of the Slovenian health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to the ministers and to the minister! I would like to start again with my red thread, which we have on the coast, the problem or development of the second track and that part of the development of the coast or that of the more important part, which is undoubtedly very interesting for us. And here I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. We have seen in the media that information has actually been given by the Ministry to prepare a specific project company to build a second track. In this regard, I am particularly interested in, it is said that, as stated, more or less already completed, the revision of the same project is expected to be completed by the middle of this year. With regard to this establishment of the construction company, however, it is interesting to know that the State will enter this company. I want to know now: Does this mean in financial terms or in what form? And if you can tell us – in fact, the public is interested in this, there is some information to be expected – what will be the timeline of this company and the construction and management of this second track. At the same time, I will take this opportunity to ask you for information, of course those you can talk about, in the direction of a visit to Hungary. Mr Orban, President of Hungary, made a statement that Hungary is willing to give 387 million, if I am right in the head, through their banking company and I am interested in: What were the arrangements here if this was also in the direction of this company you are establishing? How will this be concrete? And then information was given in the media that the Chinese company China Gezhouba Group was giving as some possibility of its entry and interest after operation, saying that they would do cheaper to do their audit, and also in time to do so, and I was curious: How and what is the reality of this matter? Was the Ministry involved or not included? How do you see this matter in which direction it develops? Then I've got an extra one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gaspersic, to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Member, thank you also for the question raised on a really up-to-date and important project to build a second track. As I think it is now probably well known to everyone, in early January the Government adopted important conclusions on the road to the implementation of this project, namely, it was decided that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance should prepare legislative proposals to support the establishment of a so-called project company that would close this financial structure and then invest in the second track project, and that, by 30 June, by the end of June, the Ministry should also obtain an optimisation of the value of the project also with regard to solutions to freight passenger transport. In short, there are also certain timetable extensions here and also what activities still need to be carried out. Now I would like to go more and more closely on this question of how these activities are envisaged in relation to the project company. The legal basis will provide the basis for what this company can actually do next. It is envisaged that this company will be awarded concessions both for the construction and management of the second track and for the construction and management of these additional conversion capacities, which can still be built in Luka Koper. We know that the area of the third pier in the State Spatial Plan is planned as a container terminal, but this activity is not yet foreseen in the planned ports of Koper until 2030. We therefore estimate that, in terms of the speedy establishment of these negotiating capacities, which will then further help to improve the economy of the second track project itself, in order to make this sense, these two concessions will be combined; both infrastructures will be provided under this project company. Let me say that the project company is meant to be an investment firm. This is very important because I will continue to explain how the construction is expected to take place. If any further plans can be made, then this optimisation is foreseen by 30 June and, of course, the following activity in preparing the call for the recapitalisation of the company follows. In fact, for the time being, it is envisaged that part of the capital invested in this company will be provided by the Republic of Slovenia up to a level of 200 million. In the other part, a recapitalisation is envisaged, which will have to exceed the amount of the Republic of Slovenia's contribution by means of these parts of the recapitalisation, so that the final contribution of the Republic of Slovenia will be less than 50%, which is important then again from the point of view of the borrowing of loans by that company, since, of course, the country would not be registered in this way. [[Incomprehensible]] In this way, the capital injection of the Republic of Slovenia, plus, of course, everything that has been done so far, will be real land, project documentation and so on. We are very likely to put the existing track into management, because after this time the two tracks will not be allowed to compete, but they may have to be managed in a uniform manner. We believe that this call for recapitalisation could be prepared by the end of this year. If we succeed in doing so, then this recapitalisation can already be carried out. It is envisaged that the project company will also apply for a call for European funds and, of course, also acquire the missing resources in the form of debt capital. In short, all these activities would then be concluded in 2017. If, therefore, everything runs smoothly without any complications and in line with expectations, conditions could already be laid down for the execution of the construction tender. The Republic of Hungary has set its cooperation quite flexible, they want to develop these infrastructure capacities to their country. In this context, they are also interested in the development of Luka Koper, for the development of our infrastructure and, of course, also anticipate the development of infrastructure throughout the corridor, which then continues through their country to Croatia. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Before we're done, I would have reminded the minister if I could have this answer, as far as this Chinese company is concerned, how and what. There have been a lot of rumors in the media and it has been written that they will be cheaper, that they will do faster, and that they will even do their own audit of the project. That's what I'm interested in. The next thing that seems very important to me is that on this occasion I would call once again on the Ministry of Infrastructure and Management of Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways to step up once again and really participate constructively in this project because, after various forums and media, they hear and emphasize how they are diametrically opposed. I would really like to hear some positive, constructive direction from the ministry as well, the work of bringing this project to life either in one form or another, but in the sense that it really does approach this second track and build another track, which is undoubtedly important for the whole of Slovenia. Despite the fact that there are now a number of congestions on this rail network, you can tell us: Is this about this or is it just another matter? This is very intertwined in the media, and then people have strange feelings whether this is in this context or not. There are also various structures coming from all sides, so I would like to hear this explanation from your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to Dr Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. If I only finish; it is said that Hungary is interested in establishing or providing these transhipment capacities and in this respect offer open cooperation options: both capital injections and loans via its import and export bank. I think that this proposal for the establishment of this project company makes it possible and flexible to offer all these possibilities of cooperation; it is said, by means of capital injections by the State or some companies or in the form of loans, and also in some way, what they have an interest to ensure, in some way, the possibility of managing these trans-shipment facilities in Luka Koper. Through this project company, they can also have an impact on the part where the concession for these additional transhipment facilities will be available if they participate in this project company. I therefore think that this option is open to the other countries that I have already mentioned in this corridor. However, as regards this Chinese company mentioned above, there are often various entities in our ministry either acting as investors, investors or as a construction company wishing to build this infrastructure. This company China Gezhouba Groupe – who were also with us at the Ministry – has shown interest mainly in construction. They are so-called a construction company and it is their main interest to build this second track. In this respect, they would appear on the invitation to tender to be submitted by the project firm. So I don't see their role to enter the project company itself, because they're not interested in managing the port, nor have I seen any interest then in managing the second track itself, but they're interested in building. It is said that with this knowledge they have, and with their capacity the track would be quickly and cost-effective, as they have pointed out, built. There's a possibility. In short, when the tenders for the second track are published, they will be able to sign up and cooperate if they succeed, then at some appropriate price and at some speed they will build it. Thus, this possibility of cooperation is open. As for your comment on cooperation with Luka Koper with both companies, SZ and so on, we would like this cooperation to be productive. This is how we started at the beginning of our term of office, but then there was little going in each of our journeys. But we are still working towards this cooperation. With regard to these setbacks, which Luke points out, I think these warnings are also exaggerated, unjustifiable. We know it's [[turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u123	Mr. Secretary, your time is up. Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u124	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Minister of Environment and Space in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I am asking you a question about used cars in the Republic of Slovenia. In our past, we have certainly made many mistakes in the field of the environment, for which our craftsmen will also bear the consequences. On the other hand, we have many laws that are appropriate, but the problem is that this legislation is not respected by some. That's why I'm asking you this question: How do you feel about this legislation and especially about used cars in the Republic of Slovenia? Some estimates are that these cars are between 40 and 60 000 a year, which go into exploitation, which are obsolete, into the area of these companies, which have this organised, which provides all the standards under this law, and these cars arrive around 10,000. Some flat rate, a rough estimate is that these cars in our country are lost about 30,000 a year. On the one hand, a person is often sad when he finds such a car in the woods, many of these cars certainly go across the border, but many of these cars are also ours, which deal with these things, but do not have standards under this legislation that require the decommissioning of these cars. That's why I'm asking you, Your Honor, Is this legislation good enough to ensure in the future that all these cars go to these centres that meet all the standards, or will there be something to add in the field of this legislation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr Bojan Podkoršek! The rules on the handling of used vehicles are laid down in the Regulation on the management of used vehicles, namely, the Regulation has been transposed into the legal order of Slovenia by the Council and the European Parliament on used vehicles. The main objective of this is to ensure the prevention of environmental pollution by spent vehicles and, of course, to increase their processing and recycling at the same time. The prevention of environmental pollution by spent vehicles is based on restrictions on the use of hazardous substances in the production of motor vehicles, measures to ensure the transmission of used vehicles to authorised centres and requirements for the elimination of hazardous substances from spent vehicles. However, in order to achieve greater vehicle processing and recycling, the re-use, processing and recycling rates to be achieved in decommissioning have been determined. The scope of the Regulation is vehicles, i.e. motor vehicles intended for the transport of passengers with a maximum of eight seats and the carriage of goods with a maximum mass of up to 3 tonnes. In accordance with the Regulation, a vehicle used is a vehicle which is waste in accordance with the law governing environmental protection. The Regulation lays down the manner in which used vehicles are delivered at a collection point or in a decommissioning facility and the manner in which the certificate of destruction of the used vehicle is issued, confirming the acquisition of the used vehicle and guaranteeing that it is provided for in the prescribed treatment. Under the rules on the handling of used vehicles, the Regulation lays down the conditions and requirements for the collection and processing of spent vehicles. It also lays down the responsibility of economic operators to achieve the objectives of reuse and processing, the obligations of the manufacturer to collect spent vehicles and to ensure their processing. It also lays down the obligations of the collector and the obligations relating to the processing of used vehicles, also lays down fines for infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. The owner of the motor vehicle, who decides not to use his used vehicle and will sign it off as useless, must put it into decommissioning before signing off. The used vehicle shall be delivered to one of the 47 collection points and to the decommissioning facilities used by such vehicles on the basis of the extended responsibility of the manufacturers or to one of the 17 separate decommissioning facilities. In the decommissioning plants, materials and components containing dangerous substances must first be removed from the vehicle, the vehicle shall then be exhibited for recycling of the components of motor vehicles, their transmissions for fragmentation and for processing and disposal. The service of decommissioning of used vehicles shall be free of charge for the last owner of the motor vehicle, when the used vehicle is handed over, the owner shall receive a certificate of destruction from which the vehicle is cancelled. But regardless of all these solutions, we are Slovenians very innovative and, of course, we are taking advantage of options that were not intended to be used for these purposes. For, as you yourself have already stated, this measure of course does not work well, since under the legislation the vehicle owner may cancel the vehicle on the basis of a declaration of location at any time and for an unlimited period of time. Part of such cancelled vehicles shall be subsequently either illegally decommissioned or illegally processed or exported. That is why we are looking for solutions – here with the Minister of Infrastructure – I am sure that in 2017 the Interdepartmental Working Group, which has already begun its work, will find an appropriate legal solution to end such anomalies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u127	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Mrs. Podprivek, please join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your reply, for your sense of feeling, I am particularly pleased to see that this legislation, which everyone does not comply with, is more effective for the well-being of our environment in particular. You note, as well as yourself, that on the one hand there is legislation that has been introduced by experts, but the problem is that in the Republic of Slovenia everyone does not respect it. I have two concerns here; for the first time, I have thought about those 17 companies, if they are all qualified to follow these standards, but on the other hand, I am concerned that every day more people have problems in our country, and those who have long vehicles, vehicles are old, can no longer maintain them, and, above all, they can no longer provide financial means to keep these vehicles running, so of course, these vehicles remain much at home in the yard, as I said before, some even go into the woods, our nature. I read somewhere that in every vehicle there are about 50 kilograms of such mixtures, which are very dangerous and cause environmental damage. That is why I call on you, Madam Minister of Infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, to address this area and to arrange it so that all these vehicles, which are used, which will no longer be on the road, will go to those companies which have the right to do so and which respect these standards to which the legislation obliges them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. There's nothing to add to that, says the minister. We would like to continue with Mr Jožet Horvat, who will ask the question of the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General, Dr. Peter Gasperšič! With my question, Mr Minister, I would like to take the initiative to prevent business fraud or to protect consumers, buyers of used cars. Slovenian Commissioner Violeta Bulc announced changes in the market for used vehicles a year ago in the European Parliament and put at risk, I quote, "...the end of companies that roll over used vehicles for miles". In February, the European Parliament adopted a directive prohibiting companies from providing services related to the modification of real data on transported kilometres in used vehicles by 2018 at the latest. On the Slovenian market, too, a number of used vehicles are sold by sellers, where the meter of the transported kilometres does not show the real, that is, the fair, condition of the transported kilometres. The system of sanctioning abuses in Germany is already rigid and functioning, we both know that, Mr Minister. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare for changes in legislation that will prevent the mentioned services of business entities and thus business fraud and damage to customers who buy a car in good faith and do not know that the actual number of kilometres transported is much greater than those mentioned? When can the Council of State be expected to amend the field legislation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Petr Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure, for his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I also thank you for this question, which actually addresses an important and problematic area that we have probably all faced in our lives before. I think I can say that we have actually taken the first steps on this path to end these manipulations. Nevertheless, I would like to make a few more introductory explanations. In fact, the meter of km transported as a measuring instrument is one of the indicators, which means that it is not legally prescribed as a measuring instrument, and therefore its information serves only as information to the driver, in contrast to the speed gauge, for which there is an approval rule regarding its operation and also as regards the test. Therefore, the change in the condition of the number of kilometres transported does not fall under the so-called reprocessing of the vehicle to be dealt with by the Motor Vehicle Act, the law in force, nor does it need to be formally checked anywhere. However, as stated, the Ministry of Infrastructure has already issued a Regulation on technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers in 2014 which, among other things, provides for a mandatory recording of the condition of the meter of transported kilometres into the register of registered vehicles at each technical inspection. That is to say, unless it is a re-examination, it is not necessary at that time, but, otherwise, at each technical inspection, it is also necessary to record the situation of the kilometre counter, which is then recorded in the vehicle register. Thus, the first step has been taken to monitor the condition of the miles transported in some way during the technical inspections. This provision then entered into force with effect from 13 October 2014, which has been said to be a bad year and a half. We also started the Ministry of Infrastructure at the end of last year with the preparation of a new Motor Vehicle Act, the content of which will also be the transposition of the provisions of the Directive on regular technical inspections of motor vehicles and their trailers, which provides in its sixth paragraph that Member States must ensure that inspectors are provided with data on the previous technical inspection as soon as available electronically for the purpose of checking the status of the kilometre, if normally installed. For the purpose of manipulating a kilometre counter with a view to reducing or misrepresenting the distance carried by a vehicle, when found, effective, proportionate deterrence and non-discriminatory penalties shall be established. Therefore, we have this first step to record the situation of counters in the context of technical inspections, and now we must, with this change, make a new amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act also to sanction or penal provisions that will be linked to these possible counter manipulations. This amendment to the law is part of the government's work programme for this year, so we expect this bill to be submitted to the National Assembly for consideration this year as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm happy, as you say, that the first step has been taken. I would like a precise answer, Mr. Minister: When will the implementation of the Directive adopted by the European Parliament in February 2015, which sets out what I have said? A few surprises me; in Germany, as far as I know, these services are severely sanctioned, which actually reduce the real state of the counter. I think it's a penalty of 1 euro per one-mile turn. It is said that if a used car salesman sells a car to you, anyone, and reduces the counter position by 100,000 kilometres, it is a penalty if an inspection gets it, 100,000 euros, which can also in some cases mean that it has to close down a business or business. As far as I read the statistics, it is – and thank God – again in some flower selling used cars, I speak for Slovenia. So it's an extremely big deal, and on the other hand, because cars are always, every day or every year, more technically complicated, we're laymen who are technically quick to bring us around and actually fall for business fraud. First of all, we are sure that we have made a good purchase, after a while, we will find out that the authorized service looks at us as if the actual state of the counter is, say, 100,000 kilometers larger, then we are desperate and we see that we have inherited a business fraud, which we both know is a crime, Mr. Minister. Here I would like the Government to move as quickly as possible and with as concrete proposals as possible towards consumer protection. That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u136	Actually, I agree with everything you've said. These manipulations actually need to be stepped on their fingers and done with them. As long as the status of the counter is recorded at each technical inspection – I think, at least for the vehicles on our Slovenian market – it is already in some way prevented from manipulating this situation, because from one to the other technical examination something is unlikely to change. Of course, it is different with used vehicles coming to market from imports. It can still happen here that vehicles that have a manipulated condition are coming. Such manipulations are likely to be difficult for us – but they will be difficult to detect, except as far as possible through authorized services. But, as we say, we have this law planned to be prepared and forwarded in this year's parliamentary procedure. This is how we expect these things to be sanctioned as of 2017. Now, either as rigorous as it is in the Republic of Germany, of course, I cannot guess now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on your reply or on the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to encourage a debate in the National Assembly, which will certainly help the Government, in particular the Minister, with the best possible text of the law. I understand that from some of the technical checks forward, when I am already the owner, it is possible to carefully check the miles and the problem is at the moment of purchase. That's when the salesman can cheat on me. See, the purchase of a used car is also conditioned by buyers with the number of kilometres transported, fewer kilometres on the counter raises the price of a vehicle, so many sellers opt for a smaller operation and flip the counter and put several thousand euros more into their wallets than they would have otherwise. This is a typical case of a criminal offence of business fraud and injury to a buyer or consumer. Right here, in this consumer protection segment, I think we do less every year, less. Last but not least, the Slovenian Consumer Union, as far as I can remember, has reduced money. That is why I think that our citizens and citizens, consumers of used cars, most of them thus come from imports, must be protected, legally protected. That is why I think it is necessary to discuss here, in the National Assembly, in order to make legislation as high as possible in terms of consumer protection. That is why I am asking for support in my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear ministers and ministers, nice greeting! My mission question is to regulate the use of underground and thermal water for both bathing sites, natural health resorts, heating of premises and also the production of drinks. In early November or mid-November 2015, we proposed an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space with a point on the regulation of the concession fee for the use of thermal water in the Republic of Slovenia. The ministry came on a day with some proposed regulation of this area, regulations were adopted at the government's own meetings and, therefore, allow me to ask you today, Madam Minister, a few questions. At that time, we proposed two conclusions; first, to publish the calculation of unforeseen revenues from concessions, to publish an analysis of the situation and, of course, arguments for the formula for calculation and international comparison. We were particularly aware that the Ministry did not have a formula for calculations in this area, which means some unstable developments in the future both for tourist workers, for the economy and not least for agriculture, as we have found at the meeting itself. Of course, according to the standard of this government, our conclusions have not been adopted, but a rather binding decision has been adopted, which the Minister has probably drawn up together with the coalition's parliamentary groups, which is said to recommend that the committees recommend to the Ministry of Environment and Space to make public the calculations of the projected revenues from concessions of 1. 1. 2016 onwards, the current analysis of the situation and the arguments for the calculation formula. And I'm interested, Madam Secretary, in the fact that I've taken quite some time to review your ministry's website: Where can we see the calculation of the expected revenue? Where is this methodology for these revenues published? Where's the current state analysis? And as a key: arguments for the formula of calculation. Moreover, at the session itself you promised that at the time of 1. 1. 2016, when this regulation is due to enter into force, you will discuss with stakeholders, especially those from tourism, as well as those from the agricultural sectors, mainly from the northeast of our Slovenia, that you are prepared for some compromises. And I want to know, in addition to this analysis of the state and formula, also: How many meetings were held in December? What are the conclusions of these meetings? So much for the introduction, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space to give her an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tomaž Lisec, honourable Member, I must say that I do not agree with the conclusions you have presented in the statement of the question. It seems important to me to say this mainly because they are adapted to your work on the committee at the time, not to the Committee's conclusions. It's nice if you remember everything I say, but it would also be nice if you knew what you said there, so this communication of ours really needs a little cleavage. In the preparation of this legislation, it is known that the 10-year water situation is being remedied in order to change this, I would say, the bathing activities where four concessions were granted had to be awarded 24 of these concessions, while 30 concessions were granted for the production of drinks. However, the individual concessionaires had only individual parts of the concessions, not the full concession for all the water they needed. I would like to say that we have been preparing regulations in the way that only the Ministry is committed, which means that they have been published on the website, with which we have informed users and communicated with them. In December, I met some users on my own at least three occasions, while in January these meetings continued. As you yourself have found, we have promised the Committee an analysis of the situation and we are also preparing it, but we cannot conclude it mainly because the 2005-2015 compensation is for water users who have not yet had the concessions, we need their data and the deadlines for submitting the data are up to 31. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What the Waters Act transposing the Water Directive says is that it is necessary to ensure the control of water collection and the introduction of withdrawal permits and to respect the principles of reimbursement of the costs of water loading services, in accordance with the principle of burden payer. I would like to say that, by granting concessions, we have taken into account and addressed a number of irregularities. One of them is that after the Court of Auditors’ audit in 2009 and 2010 it was not until 2015 that corrective measures were implemented. It is also a matter of a regulation on European funds and there is also a precondition for obtaining funding to address these issues. This condition is also for the acquisition of European Agricultural Fund funds, and it is also a condition for the granting of farm compensation due to drought. It is then a risk elimination due to the existence of unlawful State aid, eliminating the unduly better competitive situation for entities not receiving concessions. Also, users of water receive concessions, in fact, by remedying legal uncertainty. The granting of concessions eliminates the uncertainty and difficulties pointed out by users, namely the inability to obtain credits, various subsidies and the like. The granting of a concession is also important in the performance of the ownership function of entities in need of water, in the case of sale, bankruptcy and the like. The regulation of the area represents the regulation and establishment of monitoring of the water rights and actual use of water, the establishment of appropriate records and the control of water collection, which is a prerequisite for meeting the objectives of achieving good water conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. Otherwise, I didn't understand your introduction, which you disagree with me on. I hope I was talking about the facts; what we talked about on the committee, and I also read the conclusion. The Committees recommend that the Ministry make public the calculation of the expected revenue, the analysis of the situation, the arguments for the formula of the calculation. You said you couldn't give an analysis of your condition because you don't have it yet. Dear Minister! So you started working on some regulation based on an analysis of a situation that is not at all. You said yourself there was no analysis of the condition. So: On what basis did you adopt these regulations? That's my key question. Another key question, to which neither today nor at the meeting itself, we have not received an answer: What are the arguments for the formula for calculation, which is the basis for the payment of concessions? And the third: At least a few numbers about how many should come into the fund. But the decision of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, I hope that you know that the Government is bound by it, but it is not some writing text under which Members are signed, and then we go to the left and the government to the right. You said that there is no analysis of the situation and that you have met at least three times with some users, but I am not going to ask who you met to have no problems, who is more connected or less connected to you – but I wonder: Has something changed for certain concessionaires after these meetings? And I wonder: Have the regulations already been signed both in the field of drinking and in the field of thermal and subterranean water for baths and thermal spas? That's what I'm interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. To complete the answer, please the Minister for the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you. This way we'll have a really hard time getting along if we don't want to, I don't have that reservation, I admit, I'd rather try to understand each other. [[...]] The regulations are adopted in the Government, published in the Official Journal, and we are now preparing contracts with concessionaires. It is true that these annexes or contracts have been transmitted, but it is true that concessionaires still have to provide us with data in order to prepare certain contracts. It is also true that we have brought an action before the Administrative Court concerning the regulations. However, it is also true that this analysis you are talking about is ready, and I have said that we need more data for users who have paid the water refund to fully publish the data. It is also true that in the past year, various data have been used in some of the implementations, including on this Committee, to which the question is, how many equations do they have with reality? These data varied from month to month. This is mainly indicated by the aim of drawing up regulations at least by the Ministry of the Environment and Space. As I said, we are waiting until the end of this month for the concessionaires to share this information with us on their part and the analysis will be published. I agree that analysis had to be carried out in preparing all the regulations. And once again, I say that all concessionaires have received prepared concessions for consideration. It is true, however, that just before these regulations were adopted, the activity was not to adopt regulations to continue the state of unallocated concessions for another ten years. Strongly, it seems, in the past, concessionaires have already succeeded, and they were confident that they will succeed this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, and the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Council of Ministers, respectable Mr. Restoring! I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to give me a second oral answer because the question is intended for both of us. The changing economic and social conditions, demographic trends and social conditions, the growing need to create new jobs and the localisation of certain types of services require the development of new forms of value added. The answer to the description is social entrepreneurship and cooperatives, whose primary motivation is to create for the benefit of society and the environment and not merely to increase the capital power of the owner of the company. Experience from Fructala, Novolesa, Armala, Svee and Adrie Airways Technika’s failed labour buyout shows that in sales procedures, workers find it difficult to access credits that raise capital needed to buy the company on the one hand and on the other hand SDH doubts these sources and puts them in a deprived position in the course of the sale process compared to other customers. At Mure, Pek, Armala, Svee and many others, there are still opportunities to launch healthy cores of failed companies, thus maintaining jobs, knowledge and production in local environments, which will not be feasible without appropriate measures by the State. In July 2015, the National Assembly adopted the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that SDH has to examine, inter alia, the interests and possibilities and conditions for the internal ownership of employees and not only their sale, which is a dominant or absolute practice. The government has also committed itself to promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy as part of the government's strategic project, which, through innovation and creativity, develop services and products that represent social innovations, strengthen social capital and create new jobs for the various population groups in local environments. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Do you support the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy in Slovenia and with what measures do you intend to support this development? I thank you for your answer, although, of course, I know that my colleague has preceded me with a similar question before, but, in case, thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u150	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member, Members and Members of Parliament! MGRT is the holder of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy since 1. 1. In 2015, he is also actively responsible for the implementation of the Government's Strategic Project No 9, which is the promotion of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy. We are aware that the area in Europe is very developed as it provides on average 7% of all jobs, in some Member States even more than 10%, and in Slovenia only 0.7%. Social entrepreneurship, particularly at local level, also has an important contribution to job creation, so we fully support the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy. For this purpose, we have identified a set of measures in the field of legislation, implementation and provision of financial support aimed at promoting this area. Three areas, first of all legislation. In the field of social entrepreneurship and society legislation, we introduce changes to eliminate the distinction in social enterprises, according to type A and type B, we introduce a uniform definition of the social enterprise and simplify the registration procedures of social enterprises. Secondly, we also introduce the definition of cooperatives in relation to participants, consumers, suppliers, workers and thus introduce more modern names of cooperatives and bring them closer to people, including young people, such as youth cooperatives. Thirdly, we have placed social enterprises appropriately in the new Public Procurement Act; we have placed workers' pre-requirement rights in the DUMB Act and the strategy on the management of SDH's state assets. Of course, for a successful labor buyout, not only a financial scheme is enough, but it is necessary to get all the workers for this idea, and it is not possible for one or a smaller group of people to make a case in terms of transforming into a cooperative on behalf of all workers. This was to a large extent the reason why these companies failed, rather than the fact that there were no and no financial instruments. Second, implementation. Since August 2015, MGRT has been operated by the social entrepreneurship, cooperative and economic democracy sector in charge of implementing a government strategic project to promote social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy. In order to implement a government strategic project to promote social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy, a government strategic group has been set up to identify strategic issues and actions within the framework of the social economy strategy. The existing social entrepreneurship strategy, which has been in force since 2016, extends to the social economy in order to include cooperatives and other entities – institutions, institutions and the like. It will also now become a Social Entrepreneurship Council with a new law, and its composition will in fact express a partnership between all stakeholders: ministries, social partners, representatives of sectors of the social economy, regional agencies and municipalities. Funding. There are several calls for funding for social enterprises and cooperatives: two calls will be launched in February, namely for start-up for social enterprises, a start-up phase, a million 400 000 euros for the support environment of the regional network, aimed primarily at allowing social enterprises to have easier access to the market and to finance, a condition for obtaining funding will be linked to classical enterprises and financial institutions, amounting to EUR 60 000, and a tender for mentoring schemes will be published in March, which will be substantively linked to the call for a support environment or a regional support network of EUR 1.6 million. Further; given that at the last minute, at the end of 2015 we have managed to draw up another 12 million Euros of the European Social Fund for these funds, we are now planning a call for microcredit for social enterprises and cooperatives. The call will be open in March, amounting to 12 million in support of these companies. And yet, the financial instrument for labour acquisition is still not in place, as the State guarantee scheme for labour buyout has not yet been implemented. If employees establish cooperatives for the purpose of redemption, funds from microcredits already mentioned may be used for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u152	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. The answer is pretty optimistic, if I may say so. However, I am interested in the question, namely: What do the banks of the creditors think? As I know, or as I'm pursuing, it usually gets stuck in the bank's simple assessment that it won't give money. But we do know that banks are raising money right now. That is why I am also afraid that in some ways I am not 100% or entirely convinced that there is coordination here between the two ministers, that is, you and the Minister of Finance. If you can answer this additional question, but we can also leave it to the Minister of Finance when he is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Restoration, would you like to respond? Please connect to the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u154	Social enterprises and cooperatives are companies like all other companies. It is necessary to be aware of this and these companies can live and operate only on an economic basis. This is not about any support on non-economic grounds, and I believe that both ministers advocate the economic basis of such companies. Of course, I repeat again; the social enterprise is not an ideological enterprise, not based on someone on behalf of other people being able to defend this approach. We have all the grounds that DUTB and SDH must make a priority decision on this offer if such an offer exists, but such an offer must have a basis, a financial plan. I believe that the Minister of Finance will respond in a similar way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is absent. Please clarify whether you wish orally at the next sitting or in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like the Minister of the Interior to answer my question orally at the next meeting. However, let me say that I have already written to the Minister of Home Affairs on this subject in writing, I have not received the answer so far, and I think it is right that I should re-examine the topic, the topic at hand, and that the Minister also responds orally to it. In short, events in Cologne, where migrants sexually assaulted about 800 women, and events in Salzburg, where students were victims of sexual harassment and abuse of migrants for two months, shocked us all. Similar events took place in Sweden and elsewhere. These are acts that are irrefutable, degrading to women and such practices should be condemned without hesitation. For sexual inviolability and the preservation of human dignity are the human values that Europe values highly, so it is necessary to protect and protect them. At these events, Dr. Igor Pribac wrote down or said: "You are a young man and suddenly you have what you once saw on TV and in dreams. What do you do in the shelter of darkness and clumps?" End of quote. So this was Dr. Pritac's echo to these events that took place in Cologne and Salzburg. That's why I'm interested in: What is your opinion as a woman on such a reaction? Second of all, I want to know: What is your opinion on the sexual attacks of migrants, including those who may have crossed the Slovenian border? And third of all, I want to know: How do you intend to protect citizens and citizens of Slovenia from any such behaviour if the announcement is made that Slovenia will become a so-called pocket due to the return of migrants from Germany and Austria? So these are my questions, and I want the Minister to answer orally at the next meeting, given that this is really a topical issue that concerns each of us. At this time, I hope that she will give her own written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister and Minister! The area of Pocolpja is one of the worst-developed regions in Slovenia. Accordingly, a government programme was adopted to assist the Pocolp. In addition to more than 20% of unemployment, economic underdevelopment, distance or bad connections, it has already had a wire for some time, while having a sub-average educational level and a higher average departure of educated individuals. From this point of view, they are extremely important centres for lifelong learning that enable greater social mobility and the empowerment of the entire region. The area of the White Land was covered by the Novo Mesto advisory centre, but its effectiveness is very questionable. The white landscape received only 7% of the advice, although it participates 20% of the population of the South-East region. In addition, there is a significant share of particularly vulnerable minorities in the region. According to the latest information available to us, you are no longer planning a separate advisory centre in the announced public call for advice. This means that there has been a re-examination of the agreement that was agreed upon and adopted at the 23rd meeting. 11. 2015 together with the Andragog Centre of Slovenia, the Union of Human Universities and the newly established Association of Educational and Advisory Centres. Any modification of the agreement is not agreed by the Belokranje because the planned Pocolupje Advisory Centre corresponds to the adopted government programme for the Cowolpes and the needs of the environment. That's why I'm asking you: Will the upcoming call be favoured by fourteen advisory centres already operating between 2007 and 2013? In your opinion, is the effectiveness of the Novo Mesto advisory centre in activities in the White landscape satisfactory or does it provide all the inhabitants in the region with stable and equal access to these services? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u160	Your Honourable President, Your Honor, Your Honor! The advisory activity for adult education workers is included in the new perspective in the operational programme on the 10th priority axis, namely, knowledge, skills and lifelong learning for better employment, and 10.1 priority investment, this is to enhance equal access of lifelong learning for all age groups in a formal, informal and informal environment, to complement skills, skills, competences of the workforce and to promote flexible learning opportunities. This includes professional guidance and validation of acquired competences, and it is in order to improve the competence of employees to reduce inconsistencies that you are referring to and which you have also addressed the issue. The Ministry is already preparing a public call for financing and carrying out information and advice activities for employees. This will also include procedures for identifying and evaluating informally acquired knowledge, i.e. for the area you have defined, of course this is something that is very important, and the very purpose of this call is to increase the involvement of adults in lifelong education or learning and thus to improve the competences they need in order to facilitate integration and labour market needs. Above all, we are talking about additional powers for greater employment. It is expected that future advisory activities will also contribute to the inclusion of employees in further education, training or strengthening of these qualifications. Only the implementation of this tender, which is an open invitation to tender, a competitive invitation to tender, but of course extends throughout Slovenia, will take the form of consortia, which will be established in all statistical regions and will therefore require operators at the level of the statistical region to cooperate very closely with companies, trade chambers and chambers in general, trade unions, regional agencies and other stakeholders. In doing so, we must also take into account, according to the origin of the source, several elements, such as the professional starting points themselves, the development experience of the operators, a particular emphasis, of course, on the development and number of inhabitants of the statistical region, and in doing so we are obliged to ensure that the conditions and criteria of this call can in fact allow for the availability of activities throughout Slovenia, so that all employees can benefit from free advice and procedures established informally acquired knowledge. This means that the invitation to tender will also allow for the implementation of operators in the area of the White Country, but of course we stick to all uniform standards which are the same for all applicants in these calls. This means that the activity can continue if, of course, this desire is expressed, it approaches the application and monitors all the standards and requirements of this call.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you for that answer, but I am not entirely satisfied. I want even more guarantees; it is said, however, that for the area of the White Land and the wider Cowlpe, it is important that the inhabitants have equal access to advice and a response advisory service. The quality of advice can only be provided by an operator operating in an environment that knows its needs, is accessible, responsive and professional. It should be noted that the Pocolpier advisory centre means preserving existing jobs, which is very important for the entire collapsing area, where the unemployment rate is higher than 20%. Črnomelj Institute of Education and Culture has done its work professionally, professionally and qualitatively. On the basis of the successful work of the institution, they rightly expect to continue to do this work for the benefit of all the people of the White Country. These expectations are shared by all three Belarusian municipalities, as the mayors confirmed by their letter of support I have here. In short, the Mayor of the Municipality of Črnomelj, the Municipality of Semič and the Mayor of the Municipality of Metlika, all three are signatories to a letter stating that the establishment of the independent centre of lifelong learning of Bela Krajina and the independent advisory centre of Bela Krajina will contribute to the achievement of the development objectives of the White Country and the Resolution on the National Programme for Adult Education, in particular to the equitable development of this country. So I'd just like to ask you: Are you planning for the 2020 invitation to tender a separate advisory centre of Pokolpje covering the White Krajina and Kočevsko? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič is asked to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u164	As I have already defined, this implementation will take place in the form of consortia, i.e. a group of all those in a region, the statistical region, of course responsible for ensuring that this employability and the possibility of training can be ensured as close as possible to those in need. But it's a public invitation. Therefore, we must, of course, follow these conditions, which are open and at the same time accessible to all in this fund-raising process. But I certainly agree with you, and we can also talk about those regions that are specifically the domain of vulnerable groups, so some of these standards are also included in the tender that have a certain evaluation. This is also due to past experience and to the period when this resource has already been used in the area, it appears that these standards are also maintained in the future for the sake of maintaining or giving opportunities to vulnerable groups. I find it difficult to answer precisely for each individual centre because it is a public call, as it was in the previous perspective, but these are very important standards for the very reason that different levels of development of individual regions are also involved. This is why I am talking about statistical regions that show certain standards or indicators, what you have already defined in the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance Dr Dusan Maramor, who is absent. Please also clarify whether you want an oral response at the next meeting or in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your word. Dr. Marble, Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you a question regarding the purchase of the shares of the Sava Reinsurance Company by the Republic of Slovenia. Given his absence, I'd expect a written answer. Some time ago, the Republic of Slovenia decided to buy a little more than 3% of the shares of the Sava Reinsurance Company from NKBM and from the Post Office of the Republic of Slovenia, for which it deducted slightly more than EUR 6.3 million. We have been able to track this information in the media and also in the communication from the Ministry of Finance. I, of course, ask the Minister of Finance: What are the reasons for this? The fact is that the State Asset Management Strategy does not provide for an increase in the share either by the Slovenian State Holding Company or by the Republic of Slovenia in the investment of the Sava Superinstance, d.d. The fact is that SDH owns 25% plus one share of this investment. Did SDH also agree with such purchases, or what is the position of the Administration and Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, given the fact that the Slovenian State Holding also manages this investment? What will this increase bring to the Republic of Slovenia? Where is the added value that the Republic of Slovenia decided to purchase? Were there any other costs for the Republic of Slovenia during this purchase? Above all, I am of the opinion that such purchases were not needed at a given time, depending on the ownership structure and on the shares allocated, especially on the facts and state of the public finances, so that the country could also devote EUR 6.3 million to other, more important areas such as education, such as social, such as health. Once again, I expect an answer from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will ask Mrs Andreja Katič's question of the defence minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u168	Dear Minister, have a nice, good day! We both surely realize that the defence and security system is extremely important, especially at the present time. During times of peace, it seems to be the damage to the defense of every cent when things get complicated, to see what all of this is about. Our defence and security budget has fallen dramatically in recent years; in the last five, six years it has practically halved. Not to be mistaken, this is not your responsibility, you of course inherited this condition. But you are responsible for trying to improve the defence situation. Unfortunately, you have failed to provide additional millions for the defence as well. But the fact is, our defenses have a lot of problems. If we start only by meeting Nat's standards and the level of finance that we should use to defend, then it is clear here that we are far from achieving the 2% of GDP that we should devote to defence, nor are we fulfilling our own commitments. Minister, you will probably remember your promise when you said that during your ministry the defence budget would increase by at least 0.01% of GDP. Unfortunately, I must conclude that this promise is not being fulfilled, nor is it being fulfilled. Our defence system is so deep in the crisis today that it is not even hidden by the commander-in-chief of the defence forces, who every year does some kind of control over the readiness of the defence forces, and itself notes that the situation is bad. As with any investment, with each recovery, the longer we delay the renewal, the higher these costs and the more it will cost us to bring this critical situation to some level of envy. Moreover, there is a lack of awareness that an alliance not only brings benefits but also brings certain obligations, which we too often forget. That is why I ask you, Minister, a very simple question that requires a clear answer: What will you do to raise the Slovenian defence budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, to give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u170	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Your Honor, it's true what you said. The fact is that the Defence Department shared the fate of the stabilisation of public finances and that after 2010, the defence budget decreased substantially every year. Slovenia is one of the five NATO Member States that allocate the smallest share of GDP for defence, which, taking into account our contributions in other areas of the Alliance, is not the only criterion for the price of Member States' credibility and Slovenia still enjoys the reputation of a reliable ally. Slovenia fulfils the expected commitments of the Allies everywhere, except for the development of fighting capacity. Due to the financial crisis and the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as all past governments to balance Slovenia is lagging behind in the area of modernization of military capabilities. Therefore, it cannot develop some agreed capacities in the common objectives of the force at the time expected by other allies. This does not mean that Slovenia cannot contribute the expected forces to the Allied Forces. It means that fighting units would have certain limitations in certain tasks, that is, in high intensity operations or simplified, in war. Slovenia has so far participated in all Allied operations other than maritime operations, and the backlog in capacity development has not been an obstacle to ensuring its own share in joint operations. The halting of the fall in defence expenditure and their gradual increase is a goal to be pursued by the Government in the medium term in the preparation of budgets not only because of the credibility of the Alliance but also because of ensuring an adequate level of military aspects of national security. This is because of our own security, because of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. With a view to addressing the effects of the financial crisis, balancing public finances and creating better conditions for economic social development, the Government could not in the short term make a significant shift in the increase in defence forces, as you could see in the budgets for 2016 and 2017, but, despite the decline in the state budget, the trend in defence funding has been halted and, for the first time since 2009, integral resources aimed at maintaining the country's defence capacity are also increasing. Question for further – The Ministry of Defence is preparing a proposal for a medium-term defence programme for the period 2016 to 2020, and we will also put it into consideration in the coming days. In this medium-term defence programme we plan to gradually increase defence spending, and in 2016 we also expect additional resources to be provided to the Ministry for the execution of unplanned tasks, for example to extend the participation of the multi-purpose Triglav in the operation in the Mediterranean, to increase participation in EUTM Mali and possible new international operations and missions, including the participation of the Slovenian Army in managing the migration problem, which will also affect the level of defence expenditure. For 2017, we expect funds to be provided in the 2017 budget balance, which will also address this trend in defence expenditure. We also propose accession to the Strategic Review of Defence. My proposal will be to join the Strategic Security Review, it is said, of all three security pillars. In any event, a strategic review of the defence within the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia starting this year, which will in fact give what can also be done in streamlining within the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u172	Minister, I listened to you very carefully and in your reply you said many times: we will propose, the government will follow and so on. Yeah, it's obviously money somewhere, if necessary. A very specific look needs to be taken, in the case of the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister has said, but if there is no such money, this can happen and this can happen and she has received an additional EUR 30 million. In the event of the migration crisis, we also found an additional 123 million. So, if it is will, then the Slovenian budget shows that money can also be provided. My question was very specific: with what suggestions, with what actions you will ensure this. I don't know what you're gonna say. We're leaving the government coalition. If there's not a hundred million more to defend, we can disband our army. These are some specific things that you will be able to fight for all these millions. One thing certainly surprises me, however, is that in the face of all the problems the Slovenian Armed Forces have with the defence budget, you are virtually giving the highest priority to the infrastructure and meeting on HSE matters. This is very simple and easy to explain to me, so that we can all understand what the point is, or what the point is, that the Minister of Defence, in the face of the many problems he has in the department, is actually dealing with the area that your colleague, who sits next to you, is the Infrastructure Minister. So: What was the point of the meeting you hosted on 22 December 2015 regarding HSE? It seems to me that we should pay more attention to defence than to infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence, to complete her reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! If they had listened to me well enough, they would have found that I listed specific projects that await us in the next year and this year in the field of defence. That we have prepared a medium-term defence programme to raise funds, that we are the first government since 2010, to stop the downward trend. Perhaps your warnings could go to all past governments, even when you were in the coalition, and neither was what was written down and now did. The downward trend has stalled and we have plans accordingly. As I said, we will also go into a strategic review of defence, a broader area, to see where there is still rationalisation, in order to improve business not only within the administrative department of the Ministry of Defence, but also within the Slovenian Armed Forces. In view of the fact that you have also misused this issue to ask me, I think that, as the Minister can tell you, you have probably already read this in the media, in the Government we have discussed the SDH work programme and the Minister of State, the Secretary of State, has given me some additional explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u176	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to hold a special debate on the Minister's response. Why do I think — for two reasons. One reason for this is the HSE, where the Minister gave a very correct answer that she had just received, because she was interested in additional questions – an unusual way and an unusual approach – I think there is another thing in the background, but the Minister will also have the opportunity to explain more widely to her colleagues in the Government, but also to us, the President of the Government, Members, why she has reached into an area that she does not actually cover. As for the defence budget itself. Minister, I've listened to you carefully, I've heard you say you're preparing a medium-term route, but preparing a medium-term programme and activities do not yet provide money on their own. You have also rightly found, in the beginning, that I have honestly told you that the current situation as it is in the defence department is not your fault, but that you have inherited the situation at the moment and that your predecessors are also responsible for this situation. My question was what exactly are you going to do to provide additional money. Preparing programs doesn't guarantee money. Take a look at the history of the Slovenian Army and the Ministry of Defence and you will see that a lot of programs have been prepared, what this department and the Slovenian Army would need, but it's always got mixed up in a very simple thing, that's how money is provided. So, ideas and programs have always been, but this Ministry of Defence can properly, well prepare, but it gets complicated in providing money. Here I would expect you, especially to tell us what these political levers will be like to provide this money. You mentioned the Triglav ship, well, this is, for example, one of the ways in which additional money can be provided, that the existing mission of this ship is extended or that its mission continues. I expected much more from your response in the sense that we are living in a situation, in situations where there is a particular need to take care of defence, and that this will be one of the key criteria that I believe that you will be able to demand millions of euros from the Government, but unfortunately I have not heard that. So, I would like these things to be discussed in the National Assembly, because we too are responsible for adopting the state budget, that the Minister has the opportunity to explain to all of us why the defence department would require or need more money and what is so important that he should also deal with HSE.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 January 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is absent. Please also clarify whether you want a written or oral reply at the next meeting – I mean, in writing or orally at the next meeting, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. A few days ago in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with Novo Slovenija, we discussed the so-called migration issue. The meeting was attended by the Minister, one Secretary of State, even the two Secretarys of State for some time. Nevertheless, we have not received an answer to some of the key questions. And these are the very questions that are the most insidious and interested in the general public. One of these issues is the location of refugee accommodation centres. Let me remind you that in the second half of September, the government or the ministry announced its capacity under the contingent plan. At that time, Logatec, Tolmin, Maribor, Velenje, part of Ljubljana, Gornja Radgona, Lenart in Slovenski gorica, Limbuš and so on was somehow cited as the capacity for accommodation centres. That's quite something. The fact is, a few days ago, there was virtually nothing to be said about these locations, but there were some other locations, such as Kidrič's for thousands of migrants, Shenčur, Postojna, Vrhnika and so on. Citizens are confused and it is appropriate for the government to tell them clearly and precisely where these locations are intended to be. Since we have not received these answers at the last meeting of the National Assembly devoted to this subject, I now request the Minister to submit this question in writing. The fact is that I want the deadline to be as short as possible; also because it is a pressing topic, the current topic. And here, in this place, I also call on the Minister not to take the deadline, but to respond as soon as possible in the interest of citizens and citizens. She is also in the post of Minister for Elections and Voters. It is right that she treats them this way and that we also receive these specific answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor. Since Dr. Dusan Maramor is a percentage, please identify yourself to the way you respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you very much. You don't know what kind of answer I'd ask. I've been waiting for, say, an interior minister for two months for an answer regarding a police statement. So it's a little funny; but this time I'm asking for an oral answer. About a month and a half ago, the Minister of Finance made a public statement at a meeting of one of the committees in this National Assembly that the asylum applicant in Slovenia costs about 10,000 euros at an annual level, amounting to 833 euros, I say, roughly, at a monthly level. A few years later, there were still some data that spoke of 13,000 euros. My fundamental question today is: What is included in the 10,000 euros that the state is supposed to spend on an annual basis for one asylum seeker? What's the cost structure? That was my fundamental question of what is counted here. Because there are simply some very misleading claims, at least in my opinion they are police salaries, that it is a wire, that it is the work of soldiers and I do not know what is included in this. I do not think so; that is why I would also like this reply from the Minister for Finance. Otherwise, it is important to stress in the time remaining for me, the following, ladies and gentlemen, and also for the public. The costs for asylum seekers are lower in all European countries, and all European countries have already changed asylum legislation on this path. The only exception is the Republic of Slovenia, which continues to stress asylum legislation – still has not changed at all as if what happened had not happened. The Republic of Slovenia is the only one, ladies and gentlemen, especially for you from the coalition, which offers even monetary compensation to asylum seekers in addition to all the care they have, in particular housing and nutrition. It is true that this is €18 per month; okay, it is not a large amount. We have accurate data, the amount is not large; but from Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Germany and Austria, all the way to Greece, you will not find any country that would set aside one euro. And we do. It's worse than that. If you look at Denmark and Germany, the Danish and German governments are considering a proposal for legislation whereby asylum seekers are deprived of all the money they bring with them; they want to take away all the money and put it into some special fund for asylum seekers. I ask the Minister for an answer to this question. Coalition, think about how much time we're going to spend for 18 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, today – I must admit – I am asking a question that was once part of my hobby. I flew the helicopters myself. I must admit that I have been getting a lot of information for six months, and I have been following events about the Air Transport Agency, in the short term of the CAA, Civil Aircraft Agency, where certain irregularities are taking place, especially the will of certain officials. This is a whole series of cases, where there are, in particular, two, which control mainly the portion of ultra-light aircraft that have been landed in recent months. It is noted, I can say, one great ignorance and ignorance of this area. Let me say here that I am aware, as in other processes in the country all these years, that the directors and staff of this agency have changed significantly and behaved; therefore, I believe that the lack of control by your ministry towards this agency is a flaw. That I am more concrete – the deterioration of the situation was driven by the last systematisation of work, where air traffic controllers became inspectors at the same time. If I compare it to a parallel, I speak, say, air traffic controllers, those who primarily control and give permission for ultralight aeroplanes. If I were to compare it, we could say that the situation is, as it were, in carism, where the inspector for the technical examination at the end would also be a police officer, a prosecutor and ultimately a judge. The situation deteriorated at this agency with the arrival of two new employees two years ago, namely Mr Palčič, who came from the Slovenian Army, and even someone who came from the cell prisons, Mr Pijorn; who, according to many owners of small clubs, sports clubs and aircraft owners, literally, are interpreting and applying a completely new practice. Let me say that this is mainly a misinterpretation of the take-off mass of ultra-light aeroplanes and the safety factors of ultra-light years. Most of the time in public, people are following that we are basically pioneers in ultralight aviation, that we are even manufacturers; on the other hand, because of the will of such officials, all these vehicles or most of these ultralight aircraft will come under other registration marks. These problems are not in the Czech Republic, not Germany, not Austria. So in the first part, I ask you: Have you exercised any control over this agency, over this will? Have you ever seen the will of these two ultralight aircraft browsers? This is part of my general first part of this question. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Member, thank you for this question. Let me put it this way, I'm not going to be in a frame-up in the last few years at the agency. However, we all know that there have been quite a few problems there over the past few years that we are trying to resolve rapidly in this mandate. Of course, we will not be able to save everyone in a very short time, but we estimate that this problem, which has accumulated over a few years, will require at least the entire year. On the issue of controls, I can answer that at the Ministry of Infrastructure in October, 21 October 2015, we have appointed a committee to oversee the legality, efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the Civil Aviation Agency. In accordance with its competences, this Commission prepared a programme in November last year to monitor the implementation of this legality, efficiency and performance, part of which is also dedicated to the implementation of the Regulation on ultra-light aircraft. The control programme covers the so-called general part, then the deadline plan, the control plan for each area – two parts of the control are foreseen here. It then lists the criteria for classification, findings and further activities related to this control. The Commission is then 1. In December 2015, the Commission will also carry out the first part of this control and, following the completion of the second phase of its control, will classify its findings in accordance with the criteria and provide for further activities. With regard to this Regulation on ultra-violet aircraft, which you mention, I explain that a proposal for amendments to this Regulation, which has also been coordinated with the Public Aviation Agency, has been prepared. It is envisaged that this Regulation will be mediated in intersectoral coordination in the coming days so that public consultation will also be carried out within the framework of the E-democracy portal. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this consultation will take place for 30 days, follow up on comments received and then prepare a final proposal for a regulation which is expected to be published by the end of February of this year. We know, I am also aware of this issue that you mentioned in relation to the maximum take-off mass. According to the information I have from the Agency and also from the Ministry of Professional Services, here our services rely on the regulation of the European Civil Aviation Agency, so that it is not a matter of any arbitrary action by any of our authorities. However, as it is said, to clarify these possible uncertainties, the rule will be supplemented in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, weren't you pleased? Here's a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, let me give you a very brief explanation of what was going on. All aviation or aviation in its history is moving on. And so it was in ultralight aircraft. In recent years, most of the owners of ultra-light aircraft have also acquired special safety equipment installed in these ultra-light aircraft. In particular, I am talking about security equipment that can fly in worse situations, be better warned, safety aspects, even more sophisticated GPS devices and so on. So what happens now?Oh, my God! Now these supervisors don't let them take off or tell them they can't do the exam year; they can only do the school; they can do it without an instructor. The problem is also in the standard weight. In global aviation, the standard weight of the passenger is approximately 70 kilograms, and civilian aircraft are also made for this standard weight. Each manufacturer has its own safety factor. As an engineer, I looked at calculations for ultralight aircraft, such as one Czech ultralight aircraft 2000 Sting — a takeoff mass of 472 kilograms. If we count that it has a positive and negative acceleration of 4G, the standard is 1.85, it turns out that the plane has been tested for 3 and a half tonnes. Today, these two overseers are making problems for more than 20 pounds [20 kg] of higher take-off weight or less. So far, there has been no accident that due to 100 kilograms of take-off weight there would be any accident in ultralight aviation. And that's the problem. These exceed 20, although the factor is ten times or eight times, do not work in Austria, do not work in the Czech Republic, do not work in Germany. We're going for some ultra-light aviation pioneers, colleagues, we're talking about the development of tourism, including the ultra-light aircraft. These two supervisors are working all the time. I asked myself, one of them, who came from the Slovenian Army when he left the Slovenian Army, made his associates a picnic to get rid of him. And today we're pitching in for 10, 20 kilos. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u188	Now look, Piccolo or not, 10 or 20 kilograms across the border is the same thing as 1 kilogram across the border. Now I'm going to say that it's probably understandable to you that there are certain safety regulations in aviation that are relatively strict. Indeed, in practice, perhaps 10 or 20 kilograms does not mean any significant change in flight performance. But in the event of a mistake, someone would answer. It would probably also be the answer of those who allowed this aircraft to fly by exceeding the total take-off mass. Therefore, you should probably understand that the issuing authorities are strict in the implementation of these rules. I think they're right to be strict. After all, aviation security cannot be played and I stress once again. You're saying that these regulations aren't as strict anywhere else as they are with us. According to the information I have, this take-off mass, which is determined in these 472.5 kilograms, which is in accordance with the regulation laid down by the European Aviation Safety Agency, is EASA. As we say, we will further clarify these matters with the rules. There won't be any doubt here when this mass is exceeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, you have a procedural request, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't think you have 70 kilos. Well, I think you're driving a passenger plane. Have you gone on a passenger plane yet? Passenger planes, complete standards, when designing an aircraft, are considered to have 180 passengers times 70 kilograms. That's why it's a security factor. And here's the key to these two doing their own thing. This is why these same planes or the whole range of these ultra-light aircraft are already registered abroad, instead of in Slovenia. That's the problem. I am not addressing you today, nor am I urging supervisors to comply with regulations that are European rules; or to violate security regulations. I object to the pure will that is permitted. And now I ask you one more question; these same overseers, when they have exam flights, then bring in a supervisor who weighs 50 or 60 kilograms. Not that there comes a supervisor who weighs 100 kilograms of his own, so we are also discriminatory to others. Why is this one flying with you? Why a pilot who does exams, why doesn't an instructor who has 60 or 70 kilograms as a standard come along; why does a 90-pound man then come to the exam? So we're coming into a total bureaucratic anomaly that has nothing to do with flying safety and standard. I think the Minister of Public Administration is laughing too. We can't be like that. For this reason, I also request a public debate on this subject. I will make a proposal to hold a public debate; for the first time because we can say that we are pioneers of aviation in Slovenia. I've been to Friedrichshaf, and every year I've been to the fair, and I've been to Mr. Boscarol. But we are more picolovic than the whole of Europe around us. And that's because these people who have ultra light airplanes have built 20 kilos more weight on account of the greater safety of these planes. [[…]] They bought expensive equipment to increase security. And then a 100-pound supervisor comes in and says he can't fly. Or these same supervisors are already twice, even for one has been proven to have landed illegally because he flew only 15 or 20 liters [15 or 20 liters] of fuel to save this takeoff mass. Sick bureaucracy has nothing to do with safety. This agency needs a lot of control, a lot of control, of people who think rationally. I think that there should be a public debate on this subject and that you will support it. This is really not about overplay, but it is about some contribution to aviation and the development of ultra-light aviation in Slovenia, where we have some foundation and we are world-renowned. In the end, I think that would be necessary for all of those. Of course, I'm not suggesting to the minister or supervisors that two or three pilots would make a number of people appear here to reduce flight safety, especially by ultra-light aircraft. I will therefore request a public debate here on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 16 January, in the framework of the votes. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! My question concerns decentralisation or regional development. What prompted me to ask Mr Koprivnik a question? Two; firstly, the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government in the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the stage of adoption; and the conclusion that in fact there is no regional, polycentric development in our country that we deserve. The proposed strategy of local self-government in our country can be concluded by a text that says that even after a quarter of a century of existence, Slovenia will not have a province; nor, in my opinion, more effective local self-government and regional development. The province, as we know, is a constitutional category; however, we cannot agree in all these years to implement this constitutional provision. On this occasion, I must say that this is not criticism, the current minister's building, the current government; but the continuation of some agony, which has been said to last for 25 years. The landscapes in our country are very diverse – here I am referring to geographical development, also to the criteria of development, and to the criteria of population numbers, as well as to what could be listed – which could become the centres of regional development. The establishment of the provinces would, in my firm belief, disrupt the centralist governance of the country, which would mean the start of local self-government according to the principles of decentralisation. Dear Mr Koprivnikar, I am interested in: How do you see the future development of local self-government and balanced regional development? What concrete measures do you see that will lead to decentralisation and that citizens and citizens of this country can expect? In one word, what can we expect from citizens in the short term, which will be linked to decentralism, the even and/or equivalent regional development of our country? How will you establish mechanisms that will enable the quality of the tasks to be carried out also at regional level, the development of regions, the establishment of regional centres in the proper sense of the word? What will happen, in what way and when will key decisions be made, if I make a metaphorical statement, even outside the Ljubljana Highway Ring? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question; others present, welcome! Let me first say that the strategy is in the stage of adoption and is still in public debate. We have made preparations for this strategy by asking all stakeholders first of all their views on open issues; and we are also concluding it in such a way as to try to compromise all views. However, Slovenia is a small country which, in its Constitution, has also written the principle of landscapes in 143rd, but so far we have not been able to address even exactly what the tasks of the provinces should be and how many of them should actually have. In 2008, a consultative referendum was even held, and it was also shown that the wider community somehow lacks a clear attitude to this issue or does not understand how the province should actually act. In the proposal for a strategy, we addressed this issue directly in one of the chapters precisely because we would like to take a step forward in order to finally get these provinces into a function and to start carrying out that task, when you said so yourself, of decentralised decision-making, which is actually necessary at the provincial level. However, it is crucial when we ask ourselves what the provinces should do to find those tasks performed by the State today and those tasks and decisions that are being carried out and taken by the congregations today; and we ask ourselves which ones are on the provincial level. Here, in my firm belief, the key is to actually step from the dead point forward and this provincial self-government and decision-making at the provincial level is actually starting to take place. In this strategy, which is ready in the proposal, we have put a great deal of emphasis on inter-agency cooperation, the definition of common tasks and the reflection on what are the tasks for which it is not necessary to decide on them at the national level. What are those tasks for which it may not be rational to decide at the municipal level; and they are merged and transferred to the provincial level. At the same time, we wondered how to enable this regional operation, the landscape operation, without encouraging the whole operation of the state apparatus. That is why we are also looking for ways and we have also addressed them very specifically, as well as in the public administration development strategy, how to combine those support tasks that are rationally combined precisely to provide functionally resources for action at the provincial level. Very concretely, also in the Public Administration Development Strategy, which is closely linked to local self-government, we foresee the establishment of so-called regional centres or joint administrations, where we want to focus on those tasks which are the tasks of the State and the various national authorities at the provincial level to transfer decision-making to them; and that we also offer citizens in this place a kind of substitute for regional decision-making in relation to the tasks that are also being delegated to this level. Above all, I am convinced that the debate that has been held several times in the past on the number of provinces, the manner or tasks that the provinces should carry out, without having examined what is actually functionally meaningful to the provincial level, will turn us around in a vicious circle as to how many provinces the right number is — whether it is two, three, seven, eight, twelve, maybe fifteen. It is important to ask what are the tasks that fall to the provincial level, and to this end it is also based on the implementation of the constitutional principle, which is also very clear in the Constitution. Here we see – and this is also in the Public Administration Strategy – the shortest way to actually make decisions at the provincial level, but on those tasks that belong there; and it is also decided definitively there. These decisions are neither duplicated by the state level nor by the municipal level. We are also looking for solutions in this direction in the strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Prikl, are you asking for a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u196	I'm satisfied with the overwhelming part of your answer. I appreciate that you are thinking in the right direction that you have some positive valence towards the polycentric development of this country. In a way, the pain is when you come from the second largest city, and you see that this city and some other towns and other peripheral areas of light years away from Ljubljana. It can be pain, and I take it in my final stages. However, to be clear, this is not an attack on the number of congregations on this question. I welcome, Minister, what you have said – the definition of common tasks, the development of regional centres in some way, the rationalisation of existing ones, within a possible framework. Of course I'd like more here. I would like to -- let me say this -- a little more courage, a little more ambition, maybe talk more about the landscapes themselves. But maybe we can do it in 26 years, 27 years if we haven't done it in 25 years. We can all see that the strategy has not yet reached its mark, it has not yet seen the light of the world, it is still in the stage of acceptance. I greet her in some way, I see nothing wrong with her. Some ideas, some starting points are all right, and there's something more missing. In doing so, I appeal to those who will or will otherwise participate in the debates on this strategy to take a step forward and enable this country to function better, more effectively and more effectively; and above all polycentrism in the true sense of the word. Believe me, we will all be pleased with this and we will all be made progress in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you for the opportunity to further explain this area. We will all be pleased if provincial matters are decided closer to the inhabitants of these provinces and are better understood. And we will all be very unhappy if we undermine the functioning of this country by violently transferring decision-making to a provincial level or by duplicating decision-making. That is why it is very important for me to take this step, which is also foreseen in the strategy. I believe that it is a step in the right direction to say which issues are being decided at the provincial level. And to decide there and to make a final decision there. This is the real decentralisation of decision-making, but not that, for example, it decides on some issues at the state level, and then it is only formally confirmed at the provincial level or something like that. This is very important to me. As far as the number of congregations is concerned, my position is already well known, I do not want to go into the number of congregations that are also accepted and confirmed in this esteemed assembly; but I am very much inclined to combine the tasks of the municipalities and thus to come to the provinces with a functional approach; for we do not want to talk about the boldness of the strategy, we do not want to write something in the strategy [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u199	Mr. Beznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u200	which has already been enshrined in the Constitution has not been realized. [[…]] What will be enshrined in the strategy is also what we want to actually realize, as in the other strategies that we have prepared, we have prepared an action plan and are now being implemented exactly as planned. Personally, I am convinced that the shortest way to realize decentralisation is to say what is what is decided exclusively and only on a provincial level. Then we'll have a functional basis for the operations of the provinces. That's the whole point of this whole question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Prikl? [[No, no, ……]] We have finished the first part and are moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the question to the Minister of Health, Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, please. Mr. Breznik, please, if you leave the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, chairman. Complementary health insurance is socially unfair and at the same time economically ineffective. For the pensioners, for the large families, for the holiday workers, for the unemployed, and so on, the premiums for this insurance are firmly too high. According to the Ministry, about 20% of the money paid by insured persons amounts to around €95 million, remains in commercial insurance companies more or less than profits or as assets for inefficient operating costs. And it is not surprising that then commercial insurance companies, through their insurance associations, lobby against the abolition of supplementary health insurance and for the commercialisation of compulsory health insurance. These appetites – we think in the United Left – need to be suppressed in the range, the supplementary insurance must be abolished and replaced by some fair public giving. In the coalition agreement, the whole coalition committed itself to such a course of action. In person, even seven months ago, the Minister promised this very place that the legislation in which the supplementary health insurance solutions would be available would see the light of the world and come to the table by the end of last year or that she would go to a public debate. Instead, we received an analysis of the Slovenian health system and the results of this analysis confirm that supplementary health insurance must be discontinued. However, since there is kneeling here, the analysis after the new also mentions the possibility of regulating the current supplementary insurance. This, in our view, is a blind manoeuvre to maintain a system that does not work in the interests of patients, but in the interests of insurance companies. This regulation could reduce the share remaining in insurance companies, say from the current 20% to 15%. However, the public system would still lose €10 million a year in this way; otherwise, such a product would not be profitable for insurance companies. The only acceptable solution for this area is the abolition of supplementary insurance and the imposition of a replacement duty. Unfortunately, Madam Minister, after 17 months, is not in a position to know at all which revenue would be payable and which body would collect it; or if I am accurate, she does not know or does not want to say. And I think it's different, but that's why I'm sitting on the Health Committee. Every debate shows the lack of any interest in such moves by the SMC, neither in Desus nor in the SD. By no means do they want to confront these parties with medical organisations that advocate private interest in concessions and insurance. That's why I'm interested in two: When, however, will you prepare a proposal for the abolition of supplementary insurance? Do you have government support in this regard, and what does this support show? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u203	Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Mr. Miha Kordish!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u205	Just a minute. I hope, gentlemen, that you will at least let the lady speak her mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you. At the end of last year, the Government adopted a Resolution on the National Health Plan 2015-2025. The Health Committee will address it in early March and we have written in it that such financing of supplementary health insurance as we have in Slovenia is not based on the principle of solidarity, because the premiums are the same for all segments of the population of Slovenia, does not take account of their income status. We call it professionally regressive premiums. This is also why the financing of our health system is assessed less equally in this part, as the greatest burden, as you can see, is borne primarily by the most socially vulnerable part of the Slovenian population than by those with higher incomes than you know, who pay the same premium. The premiums, such as they are today, should also be said to have saved around €420 million since 2009, given that health care has saved one system in recent years. Insurance companies, as you correctly note, make profits under this heading, share free of charge vineyards, use for their operating costs the creation of technical insurance provisions. As a result, we will have to take account of some of the starting points when removing, reshaping or modifying this insurance. It is important to know that this is how about €410 million of money is collected, which goes into the health system. And simply a variant, as you could see in the proposal for an analysis, just a simple withdrawal of insurance, without proper replacement of another alternative source, the health system loses this source of money. When reshaping or abolishing, we will take into account – through the new Health and Health Insurance Act, which is a priority in this year's Government's regulatory programme for the first half of this year – that by replacing the supplemental, we must cover a wide range of people who will pay such a levy, so that this source of funding must be sufficiently flexible and also sustainable in the long term, in order to take into account the ageing of the population and thus the increasing expenditure on long-term care, also linked to the long-term care law. All of this will be the criteria that will be taken into account in the preparation of the Health and Health Insurance Act. As you know, we also have an analysis on the agenda at the Health Committee meeting on 5 February, there will be an opportunity for us to talk more about the proposed options set out in the analysis. You know that the proposed option is whether to abolish payments, which I said was not acceptable; to introduce another alternative duty, which could be compulsory or optional, depending on the income of the individual, and in relation to health insurance rights. They also mention the third option as a better regulation of the current Supplementary. But let me tell you that this option, even though foreign experts have predicted it is not actually an option. Why? Since, in order to regulate the premium, the amount of operating costs in order to provide that this insurance does not have a profit, it would simply not be taken into account; because it would be constitutionally controversial because it constitutes an intervention by the State in the free enterprise initiative and in the business of insurance undertakings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u207	Mr. Miha Kordish, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Madam Minister, I practically agree with everything you have said. You also know that in the United Left we strongly support you in order to abolish supplementary health insurance. You can also read this question today in this way; especially because it is clear that certain parts of health care, that health insurance companies, including which foreign economic chambers, are very strongly lobbying for the commercialisation of compulsory health insurance in our country. Let me lay it on your heart once again that in this feat in the United Left you certainly have allies. Let me just confirm, if I understand what you're saying. The proposal to abolish supplementary insurance can be expected within the next six months. Because this promise was made several times during this term, it moved slightly from June to September and then to December. This time, I hope you're saying it's a priority, that this is actually going to happen. Otherwise, I've asked you for the support of the government and how this support of the government appears. Because my experience in the Health Committee shows that colleagues from the SMC, SD and Desus also show a terribly uninteresting face when supplementary health insurance comes to an end. What I mean is that there is no strong support and no serious initiative in this direction; however, I would like to see this happen and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your support, too, because I think we're gonna need it. Let me answer that, of course, the support of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is complete. We have also written this down in the coalition agreement for the period 2014-2018. But it is true, as you say, that the interest of all these stakeholders has already begun to manifest itself. Let me also say that one very important reason for these changes is that Slovenia is a small country, a small economy with two million inhabitants. Such a way of financing healthcare in small countries is an example of very poor practice – Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, where insurance companies went to carry out such forms of competition. The fact is that health services, premiums and access to health services have been enormously encouraged in these countries over the past six months. The message of this analysis is that we should not go in this direction because it will be very bad for us, our children, and our grandchildren, even because of our littleness. Two million people, so to speak, are barely for half of one insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'm sorry I had a bit of a chat earlier, but we had a debate with the minister. I ask the Minister again; I come from the Slovenian Mountains. Let me say that I met some farmers and I presented to the minister in one of the last meetings a problem of renting a farmer in the Slovenian Gorica, in the municipality of Jurovski Dol, which in 2008 paid, for example, 5 hectares of agricultural land, a rent to the Agricultural Land Fund of about 800 euros and in 2015 paid EUR 1 000 275 for the same land. During this time, as you know, all kinds of agricultural products, in the area of meat purchases, milk purchases, prices fell heavily. And farmers have a lot of problems in Slovenian Gorica, because this is a lot of agricultural areas that are in a hilly zone, not in a flat land, but also the age of the population in this area, and above all the problem is the smallness of farms. We have an average farm much smaller than 7 hectares, such as the average value, about once in Slovenia. People just have to borrow this land from the fund. That's exactly why I'm asking, Minister: How, in what way has this value increased from €800 in recent years to €200? This also represents an economic problem for these farms, a problem of survival. I am aware that, because of the past actions of the decade, this farm is often not economically independent, they are not independent; these people have another activity to pursue in order to survive these farms. I'm asking the Minister if he can answer me: What will be the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture in the future in the area of the system of renting and, in particular, the policy of renting these agricultural land? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking! We did one simulation on your last question, a simulation was made at the Party. [[Incomprehensible]] We have also found one example of a farm with 5.6 hectares, and we have found that there is a thousand EUR 123 for this. However, I must say here that the current price at which this was made was EUR 195 per hectare in the field. As far as the plantation orchard is concerned, the single price, as well as for the country in Slovenia, is EUR 212; some areas have bonus points, some minus points; but this particular area is on the same. In the past, one reduction deduction was also taken into account when the land was more than 3 hectares. It hasn't been there since 2009. Now, let me give you a brief assessment of how it went up. From 2015 to 2016, this new one increased the rent by 5 %. The reason given by the Fund – this is accepted by the Fund – but not by me running from responsibility, but by me who is the one who sets the rent – has been taken into account, according to temporary data, the physical growth of agricultural production by 6%, which is worth 1%. However, prices have also fallen, so that the factor income, which is a measure of agricultural performance and efficiency, has increased by 6 %. While this is temporary data, generally as a sector these temporary data are generally considered final, only within individual sectors in agriculture something changes. From 2014 to 2015 there was no difference in price. I mean, it compensated for some higher rent from 13 to 14. However, the general fund takes into account, so I am taught, and I also understand that the rent increases if factor income increases. This is an important cost for farmers who have agricultural land leased from the country. Many, or most, also have them from private owners. In doing so, the following must be taken into account. Firstly, the demand for these prices, such as the supply at hand, is significantly higher. Now, I'm going to give you some unofficial information, this is the information that goes against it in line with the executive opinions. At that time, it is not used, for example, the price list used by the fund, that is, those poor 200 euros per hectare of land area; but a significantly higher number is used, that is 350 euros, because experts estimate that it is elsewhere in Slovenia. The rent cannot be the basis of whether the farm is successful or not; it is also a cost, I admit. The main point is where the farm is productively oriented. Nor can it be good to take into account only where such or other payments are made from the European Union and Slovenia Agriculture Fund and where farms receive payments from several sources. Just in some areas – we discussed this with the Member earlier – the farm is drawing on, in addition to direct payments, measures of the Rural Development Programme, which is currently being corrected. Where it's hilly, we've agreed to help farms a little bit. We are introducing two new measures. The first new measure is that where the mountain-mountain type of farm is, we pay a one-time premium per year per animal; I think 130 euros per head of large livestock is for dairy cows. At the beginning of this year, we are also introducing a premium for the welfare of bovine animals, which in practice means that if the farm puts its cattle on pasture for at least 120 days, we will pay the premium of EUR 53. However, we are also changing the allowance for the OMD, but since I am running out of time, allow me, Mr Member, to reply below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, you're requesting a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for mentioning the policy of the Fund of Agricultural Lands, where there are options; the bureaucrats are setting up an increase that does not have a basis. You are referring to as an argument some recommendations made by agricultural land valuers and others. How much is that worth? It is always important to ask who is willing to work on the farm, who is ready to process, who is ready to make food. As you know, I've been talking to a farm where years and years work in this area, so not some speculators with land, but people. Another problem that is precisely because of such a policy is that young people are leaving. We have not only a demographic picture of the Slovenian people, a catastrophic birthrate, but the biggest problem is rural. After one stop in Slovenian Gorica, we find that unemployment is not exactly a problem because young people who are unemployed, who leave this area – either abroad or around Ljubljana. Only older farmers who work are left. Today the average age of a farmer in the Slovenian Gorica is a pensioner, these are the people who have matured for retirement. The problem of agriculture in the Slovenian Mountains is not real policies in the area of the agricultural ministry that would sustain a young farm taker who would have solid, favourable conditions for development, where he could stay and be motivated to stay. Indeed, perhaps the rent for someone sitting in Ljubljana in the office is not so great; but for someone who barely survives on this farm, every cent is decisive. That's exactly what I'd like to say, one is life cases, and the other is when you're sitting in an office in the middle of Ljubljana and you say - because this rent isn't that big. Is that appreciater willing to work on this earth, to produce food, and to sell it on the market at as low a price as they are today?Oh, my God! It's always a question of this chain. Mr Minister, as you know, the biggest problem with the fund is that, because of their policy, Slovenia is growing. And Slovenia is growing. We have a lot of high prices from the fund or the moderate prices they expect, but no one is producing anymore. Slovenia is growing, this is another problem that will arise.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you, Chairman. The fact is that Slovenia is growing less than it was growing; it is still not a zero. The amount of land is significantly smaller than it has been in the past to such farms, areas because we cannot have a programme just for Haloze, Slovenian Mountain or Goričko if you want to help them as a whole. [[…]] We are now upgrading the Rural Development Programme. The first thing I said was, this is a payment for animal welfare, that the cow comes easily to pasture, which is also a broader goal, this measure will now invest at an annual level of 4 to 5 million euros; and a few years until the beef crisis. As a new measure to be implemented by 1. 1. 2017, is additional aid where there is a slope. Such hectares are 31 000 hectares from 460 000 in Slovenia. Farmers with a slope plus 35% will receive an additional 50 euros per hectare. Farmers with more than 50% slopes will receive an additional 100 hectares. At the moment, it is also important that we have the first call for young farmers. We want to bring in the young farmers, every year there's gonna be a call, and I think in the first package there's going to be 210. It is interesting to note that farmers who will run farms professionally have mostly applied for the invitation to tender. The fact is that out of 58,000 hectares, farms that form part of agricultural policy are substantially smaller than those that grow and do something about it. What I'm expecting to make some kind of start is investments. This year we are going to the investment wave: I think that the tenders will total more than € 140 million. Since the co-financing rate is 30-50%, we expect an investment effort of €350 million. At the same time, if you allow me, I would like to say once again – one of the major problems we still have in Slovenian agriculture is that people do not connect. We have not only housing but also business, or we have regions of Slovenia, if we are looking at the Kobaric end, which also has extremely difficult conditions for farming. But all farmers are part of a cooperative, and therefore they live significantly better and safer lives. But we have regions of Slovenia, because it is easy to connect this culture, to make you safer and finally to do something more profitable, we need to raise more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Beznik requests a debate in the National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I agree with you if you will take measures, i.e. the specificity of the area where I come from, the Slovenian Mountains, where most of this land is also hilly, where farmers have problems, including population ageing and the policy of hiring this fund. I don't think it's just a policy to get farms that are economically sustainable, where not only farms will live on subsidies in the coming decades. I think with knowledge, all farmers can survive today. The problem is that most farms are small, fragmented, has 2 hectares in one piece, has 2 hectares in the other. This is the problem of the former system, where literally farmers, large farmers killed, destroyed, expelled and made a whole series of journalists who literally died for meals on these farms. Why am I asking these questions? You've become a minister, now the third term, of course the first term was only half and the second. But I think we need to get into some serious reform here. Slovenia is growing, and politics – including the fund – is unsustainable, and many of these prices are at the level of a bureaucratic culture, not in a real state. How many people are willing to work, take over, and cultivate this land. You mentioned livestock farming, I agree, external grazing, I look at the prices of quality beef, even abroad. The Germans are willing to buy a whole range of quality beef at much higher prices than in Slovenia. We have also ignored the communities of the pastures, and one of the reasons for this is in Bohinj. I think that my request for public debate within the framework of the land that is now in the power of the state and through the fund is being made available through rent to smaller farmers in order to survive. It is part of a reform and part of a conversation here in Parliament, where it continues with this agricultural policy. I don't think the state can be the owner, and most of the time it's the land that some land might have to keep because of strategic issues. However, there are things where we want these smaller farmers who are dying of meals such as those in the Slovenian Goricas to receive or buy this land at some moderate prices, that young farmers are motivated to become owners. Private property is the foundation of every serious democracy, serious state and respect for it. Once these farms are made of smaller secondary schools, one or two families will be able to survive on this farm. And this must be the goal of some serious, bold agricultural policy over the next ten years. And because of this proposal for a debate that I now submit under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, my aim is to make farmers not only in the Slovenian Gore, but all over, from such small farmers become middle farmers, to take on smaller takeovers from these farms and to make these farms economically sustainable. And I thank you, Mr Minister, for your reply; I wish such a discussion had also taken place in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26 January, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, chairman. The position of workers in culture is deteriorating due to constant savings. As a result, in all areas of artistic production, there is a decline in quality and scope of projects or works of art; at the same time, those who work in culture are increasingly in a chastity, making normal life impossible for them. The copyright and related rights system is far from optimal, as it largely provides the monopoly of the world's largest media or publishing corporations. However, this system also forms part of the income of cultural workers. It's even worse because things are arranged with us so that the funds flow into the hands of large actors, foreign and domestic actors; the economic and social situation of creators is deteriorating. At the same time, these funds are not invested in the development of quality cultural production, they are not invested in the promotion of young people; they go into foreign pockets or remain unused. One such case is also a compensation for private reproduction of works and works protected as related rights. This compensation was introduced by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights following the example of other countries and on the basis of international acts. It is a compensation for the use of protected works that individuals record on media if they record any film or music. The amount of refunds is governed by the current government regulation, but no collective organisation has been collecting refunds since 2010. This represents a loss of work on beneficiaries' income, estimated at annual level at EUR 1 million. For example, in 2009, the IPF Institute collected 818 thousand 956.28 euros in compensation for private reproduction. For more than five years, the remuneration is paid to the debtors who, for example, are importers of rescheduling devices; the traders with empty carriers have not, of course, reduced their prices due to the failure to collect this refund. All this time they are eligible rightholders without this important part of income. For more than five years, the State has allowed the state not to collect the refund. However, it is unacceptable and inconvenient to give up the tax provided for in this title at the same time. That's why I'm asking you: Why is the Ministry allowing private reproduction benefits not to be collected for the past six years? Why is the Ministry not taking specific instructions for the implementation of the procedure for granting provisional licences in respect of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, where more detailed guidance on the criteria and criteria for granting licences of this type would be given? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you, Chairman. The Messenger, the Messengers and the Messengers! It's a tough topic. In order to permit collective management of compensation rights, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia shall be responsible for intellectual property. For many years, the Office has been working to collect and share compensation among eligible rightholders. The Copyright and Related Rights Act lays down the right of authors and other beneficiaries to a common compensation and the conditions for obtaining permanent or temporary collective management authorisation. The beneficiaries must organise themselves accordingly. In order to ensure collective management of this right, although authors and other beneficiaries have the right to compensation since the entry into force of the ZASP in 1995, we have not yet established a new joint collective organisation to collectively manage the right to a fair compensation. Since the relevant collective organisation was not established, the Author Agency for Slovenia was 3. Ten. A provisional authorisation was granted in 1997 relating to the collection of these refunds. This provisional authorisation expired on 1 January 2017. Seven. 2006 because collective organisations have decided to take care of their own management of the right to compensation. In 2006, the Office, with several letters and references to meetings, encouraged collective organisations to agree and thus played an active role in regulating the situation in this area. The Institute for the Exercise of the Rights of Operators and Producers of Phonograms of Slovenia, the IPF Institute is 12. 11. Issued a temporary authorisation of up to 31. 12. 2009, that is to say, two years since the collective agreement concerned only this period. And that's what you've been saying since the 31st. 12. 2009 No collective organisation shall collect this compensation. Prior to the expiry of the provisional authorisation of the IPF Office, applications for this permanent and temporary authorisation were submitted by SAZAS and the IPF Office. The office is all collective organisations 24. 12. By letter of 2009 it pointed out that due to the complexity of the case and because no application was complete, the procedure before the expiry of the provisional authorisation would not be completed, at the same time it proposed that, in order to ensure the continuity of the management of the refund, the provisional authorisation should be extended by 6 months or until the entry into force of the new authorisation, if issued earlier. The collective organisations of the proposal were not accepted by the Office. The Office then repeatedly called on collective organisations to set up an appropriate relationship to ensure that a permanent or temporary permit is issued and to organise meetings. At the meetings, the Office presented its views and case law on the conditions to be met by collective organisations for issuing a permanent or temporary authorisation of the position of the Office. The presentation of the case law was also published by the Office on its website. The Office explained that the issue of a temporary permit merely makes it possible, but it does not command; this means that, subject to all the circumstances of the case, the Office shall decide on its own and on its own discretion if and under what conditions the provisional authorisation will be granted. The Office is in favour of the view that only all beneficiaries can exercise the right to compensation together, as the remuneration for private and other own reproduction also belongs to all beneficiaries together. The condition for the Office to grant a temporary authorisation is that the applicant submits the powers of all or at least most holders of the right to a fair compensation for private or other own reproduction organised in the relevant collective organisation and the agreement in which the holders of the rights of all mutuals have agreed. The position of the Office was also confirmed by case law. Although the Office has extensively clarified the conditions for issuing a permanent and temporary permit and has presented the case law in this area, applications for permanent and temporary collective management of the right to compensation, which the Office has already decided, did not fulfil the conditions required and the Office has therefore had to reject them. The Office decided on several applications, last May 2015. The Administrative and Supreme Court has so far confirmed the decisions of the Office which have been challenged in an administrative dispute as being correct and lawful. At the moment, the Office shall consider one application for a permanent and subordinated temporary permit for collective management of the right to a fair compensation. Specific instructions for granting temporary licences for collective management of the right to a fair compensation or for determining the criteria and criteria for granting licences are not necessary, in accordance with this law, if they fail to establish an appropriate collective organisation within one year of the application of this law. It is now a temporary authorisation for the collective exercise of certain rights to a legal person who does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 149 of this Law. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic has a reply supplement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you for this comprehensive report. As you yourself said, the Author's Agency for Slovenia collected some time on the basis of a temporary permit and this authorisation was granted within two months. The IPF was also granted temporary permission within a period of two months. This is as if then the Office of Intellectual Property was still trying to operate within the statutory deadlines of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The last application for provisional authorisation for the exercise of this right to compensation for private reproduction shall be 27. 12. 2012 submitted by the SAZOR collective organisation. This role was 28. 5. 2015 rejected after more than two years. Among other things, because one of the signatories to the agreement, specifically the SAZAS, is said to be unable to implement the administrative and technical executions of the collection of refunds, as there is no employee. Excuse me, this argument is incoherent, as this organisation peacefully carries out other collective enforcement activities, and the Intellectual Property Office has no problems here. Therefore, it can be said that it is an unequal treatment or the setting up of new and new conditions for the issue of temporary authorisation, which should be significantly simpler and faster, as this is precisely the purpose of the possibility of the Institute of Temporary Authorisation. And it is in the interest of all of us that this matter is resolved and that these compensations are collected. That's why I want to know: Why does the Ministry not order supervision of the work of the Office of Intellectual Property in this area? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u228	Everything you've said is true. It is that we started to solve this problem, as you said, in May 2015 we gave an answer that lasted, as you said, two years. However, it should be said that with regard to the conditions or criteria for granting a permanent or temporary collective licence for the administration of the right to compensation, a comprehensive case-law has been drawn up so far, which rights holders are familiar with, and that the Office has taken them into account when deciding on applications for such authorisation. I believe that in the new staffing structure, the management of the Intellectual Property Office will be resolved as quickly as possible; however, those who make these applications must also fulfil these roles correctly and in a way that they will be fulfilled. However, I believe that we will solve this problem; if not sooner, we will adopt a new Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We have also foreseen this issue within this framework in a way that will be more rapid in resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-25-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, do you request a debate? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. With this, we have exhausted the list of questions and answers. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 26 January, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 15th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
