ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Andreja Potočnik from 12 noon onwards, Mrs Iva Dimic, Dr Jasna Murgel, Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Andrej Čuš from 12 noon onwards, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Jože Tanko from 11.30 a.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the laws on forests by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, which brings important changes with a view to ensuring effective forest protection and reducing administrative burdens for forest owners and legal persons who participate with owners in the forest management process and constitute an important factor in the design of the entire forest chain. We all, honourable Members, know the consequences of the capture that affected Slovenian forests in 2014 and that damaged 51% of all forests. The damage to the stomach was followed by an increase in the population of subscribers, which only further increases the level of damage in the forests and causes the owners great difficulties in managing their property. According to data from the Slovenian Institute for Forests, some 2 million cubic metres have been recorded for sanitary intervention this year and is expected to be recorded similar to 2015, which is about 2.1 million cubic metres of wood. So far, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we have taken various measures to ensure effective recovery, and we regularly inform Members and Members of the National Assembly of the progress of forest rehabilitation. With regular monitoring, however, we have found that in order to improve the efficiency of the implementation of forest rehabilitation and protection, it is also necessary to supplement the Forest Act and thus systematically provide more effective instruments for forest rehabilitation alone. These additions to the law relate in particular to cases where the individual irresponsible owner causes damage to other owners working in their forest as good masters. Since it is also expected in 2017 to attack the underlings in the Slovenian forests, it is essential that the changes be confirmed as soon as possible and put into practice in a timely manner. In addition, we have also prescribed penalties for excessive harvesting of forest fruits, such as mushrooms, bones, blueberries and the like by forest owners. This will help to protect forests and protect the rights of forest owners. In addition, by amending the Forest Act, we also want to ensure that forest owners have as little administrative burden as possible and at the same time ensure the effective implementation of the European acquis in the field of ensuring the legality of logging and marketing of timber and timber products. This is a so-called timber regulation with the main objective of reducing illegal logging and the related trade in timber is not wood products in the entire European community. With the proposed changes, we maintain proper traceability of wood and reduce administrative burdens. According to a new report, the transport of timber at the place of transport operators will be accompanied by a bookkeeping charter, which is already being used by companies in the context of legitimate business. For their own needs, forest owners will only be able to transport up to 10 cubic metres of wood by decision of the Institute of Forests. This amendment removes the so-called carrier, the record sheet and the instrument on the use and transport of forest forest varieties used during the current transitional period. In this place, honourable Members and Members, I would like to point out once again that this amendment of the law does not involve any renaming of carriers into a bookkeeping instrument, but rather for a completely different arrangement, but with the same aim that traceability of wood and additional possibilities for the identification of illegal logging is ensured, and this is certainly a significantly lower burden on forest owners and all entities involved in the forest wood chain. Indeed, it is a major burden on forest owners because of the dominant way of selling timber on a truck road, as more than 90% of forest owners are selling it and will not even meet with the bookkeeping charter. This is the obligation of the wood that buys, organises transport and is needed by companies in the context of regular and legitimate business. By amending the law, we also define the procedures for determining the growth coefficient as one of the key elements for determining the height of the cadastral income. By supplementing the law, we will ensure transparency in determining the growth coefficient and at the same time allow forest owners to require further verification of the growth coefficient for their possession. Allow me, honourable Members and Members, to stress also that I personally strongly support the amendment voted on by the Committee, and this is that free access means free walking of persons in the forest and other access to the forest, which is carried out on its own responsibility and in accordance with the rules governing forests. In this way, in our view, we will implement another of the eligible requirements of forest owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting! The Committee considered the draft law at its 47th urgent meeting on 9 November this year. The amendment was tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group. Members received amendments from the New Slovenia Group and amendments to the amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD. In a very constructive discussion of all members of the Committee, some members of the Committee pointed out that we already have generally free access to the forest, and that by introducing new concepts and their definitions we cannot address the issue of responsibility. The Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that it is necessary to be aware that the approach to excluding own responsibility may lead to a confrontation with compensation. The proposal does not imply that third party compensation is excluded, as this depends on the individual case. With regard to the proposal that the material costs of checking the establishment of the growth coefficient be paid by the forest owner requiring verification, Members were interested in why these costs were not borne by the State. The representative of the proposer shall be Minister of State of Mag. Podgoršek and Head of Forestry Sector, Ministry of Mag. Zafran explained that the system was designed in the same way as in the valuation of properties on the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. It was also explained that a minimum growth coefficient, which is in a given planned unit, is always prescribed and that in the event that all 40,000 forest owners decide to verify the determination of the coefficient, this would be a very high cost for the country. Such a proposal is designed as a compromise and the proposaler is aware that the growth coefficient has both advantages and disadvantages. Forest owners are already in the process of drawing up a 10-year forest management plan and see that they can also make comments. They can also check the assessment of their forest society on the world’s web right now. State Councillor Zupančič warned at the same time that verification will not necessarily be in the interest of forest owners. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service proposed that, if the growth coefficient procedure is close to the administrative procedure, it be determined that, if the forest owner has succeeded by checking it, the State verification payer, if it has failed, will bear the costs itself. Most of the members and invitees seemed to be a good solution. Following the discussion, a number of attention was given to the proposal for a one-year deadline for the regulation of the method for determining the growth coefficient and, at the proposal of the SDS, the Secretary of State replied that the deadline could also be shortened. Furthermore, the members of the Committee considered that there was no need for the application of an accounting instrument to replace the carrier, since this measure constitutes an excessive degree of red tape and, with its very precise content, constitutes overriding. They also find it controversial that in the proposal of the law the carrier is renamed a bookkeeping charter, as this will create considerable confusion. They considered that the objective of the regulation, i.e. the traceability of wood, was already achieved and could also be achieved without the introduction of a carrier or a bookkeeping document. As one of the proposals, they highlighted the possibility of complementing either the decision on logging of the Institute of Forests or perhaps even the supplier with all the necessary ingredients to enable the traceability of wood. The Secretary of State stressed that ensuring the traceability of wood is essential if we want to export wood, and he said that the Ministry is open to proposals for the regulation of such a document. The members of the Committee also considered that the proposed period of two hours from the issuance of the order in which the carrier was obliged to submit the accounting instrument to the supervisory authority was not reasonable, especially since the proposed lateral penalty was also to take away forest wood varieties and they proposed that the deadline should be much longer. The Secretary of State said that this deadline did not come from the law, but from the police and financial administration, which was not agreed by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. At the same time, the same representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also found it problematic that the proposal did not state who issued the order which was the basis for the withdrawal, nor did it, what type of order it was, in writing or orally. On the question of Members, the Secretary of State explained, with regard to the proposed introduction of the responsibility of responsible persons in the self-government local community, that the municipalities own 2 to 3% of the forests. The legislation thus far did not provide for the possibility of a criminally responsible person in a self-governing local community, so the municipalities were in a privileged position. The Committee took note of the amendments identified. The decisions are reflected in the report of the Committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the completed proposal for a law incorporating the amendments is prepared on the basis of Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you once again for the floor. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The so-called transport operator was introduced into the Forest Act by the current Minister of Mag. He was a Jew because he wanted to follow the regulation of the European Union. What are the transporters? Carriers are a very complicated document or transport document which must accompany any load of wood transported directly from the forest to the final buyer and so on. The carrier must keep the carrier at his disposal at all times and show it in the event of supervision, and the Regulation has also very precisely defined the form and content of the carrier and the rather high fines for non-compliance with the legal provisions. According to the SDS Group, carriers are the inventions of officials at the Ministry to follow the European regulation, but officials have made their own kindergarten, even though we have both the decision of the Institute for Forests and the document in use and transport with forest forest varieties. The SDS had already opposed the introduction of carriers. It happened in 2014 and a compromise proposal for a law to implement a moratorium in the field of transport by 1. 1. 2017, as it was also envisaged that the problem of lugadar would be up to 1. 1. 2017 also arranged, and we all know what the situation is now on the ground. Apparently, the Lubadar will employ such forest workers, forest owners, for some time now, and we are probably also Members and Members of Parliament. In September 2016, Members of the SDS proposed a similar law with only one principle, the abolition of so-called carriers. The government has rejected the law on the grounds that it is not systemic and that we need some other measures. And so today the law before us by emergency procedure is primarily in the desire to prevent the spread of damage due to the bulwark. And yes, the law has even three good articles in this area, which are the only moment why we believe that it is imperative to address this law. It is, however, a fact that those articles, which range to speed due to the archduke, the rate of shrinking, should be adopted in our opinion already in 2013. In short, we're more than two years behind schedule. In the opinion of the SDS Group, the Forest Act has still not fully addressed all the issues that are needed within this area. The law is also not in line with the Forest Owners' Union, both in terms of ownership, growth coefficient, as well as in terms of fines and, finally, in order to solve the problem of the lugadar. When we proposed a law in the SDS Group, it was said that the coalition and the opposition were of the opinion that transporters should be abolished for the removal of timber from the forest. However, if we read this bill, even after consideration, after second reading on the parent's working body, we see that carriers do not stop. It's a rename with certain texts. It's still a burden, because we need to be aware of what the current situation is. That's up to one. There are no 1st carriers. With 1. 1. 2017 will get people so-called bookkeeping documents, otherwise it is easier to relieve natural persons, but it is still a discrimination, because the carrier is not a Slovenian state forest company. In addition to discrimination against owners of private forests, in our view, the bill introduces an additional administration. It's about criminalizing the owners of private forests. Finally, there is just another extension where we see that this government wants to nationalise Slovenian private forests. That the carrier is not necessary, they also say at the Institute of Forests, where they say, quote: “The abolition of the carrier means a great administrative burden.” But it's not going to happen. Moreover, “the abolition of carriers does not mean less traceability of wood,” says Jože Jerome, the forest owner and the timber purchase and sale company, as it is necessary to have a document on the market that proves where it comes from. And respectable, Your Honor! In the event that the amendments of the SDS Group are not accepted, we will oppose the law despite three good articles because you promised to abolish the carriers and you will not do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! Allow me to introduce you to the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. The proposal for a new Law on Forests brings a number of urgent solutions that we need to take as soon as possible, including with a view to more effective implementation of measures in the case of the restocking of hatchers and other pests or diseases in the forest tree. A set of emergency solutions may include the determination of the growth coefficient, which is one of the elements for determining the height of the cadastral income. However, the second reason that is not so urgent is difficult to expect the removal of carriers. If I only remind you, they were introduced because of the European requirements to ensure traceability of the wood cut. The carriers will replace the accounting documents that are still intended to ensure effective monitoring of the traceability of wood and thereby reduce trade in illegal timber and timber products. Since forest owners are supposed to have too much administrative work by carriers and therefore forest rehabilitation has not taken place as quickly as it should have been, we expect in our parliamentary group that forests will be rehabilitated before the new season of the propagation of subscribers after the adoption of this law. We are pleased in the parliamentary group that an amendment to the bill has also introduced a provision setting fines for those forest visitors who exceed the quantities allowed when collecting fruits, plants, mosses and mushrooms. The Ministry also decided on such a proposal on the basis of recent events in Primorska, specifically Artviža in Brkini, when the collectors, mainly from the neighbouring country, literally ripped up the forests there by collecting excessive amounts of bones. We have also witnessed similar stories in other parts of Slovenia, for example in the collection of blueberries, when collectors destroy the entire growth of these, as they collect them with illicit devices or even cut whole shrubs. However, we are concerned that due to the insufficient number of competent inspectors of this control it will still not be possible to carry out to such a large extent as it should, even if we know that the powers of the Institute for Forests and Economic Inspection with this law continue to extend from forest trees to the entire forest range complex. In our parliamentary group, we did not support a provision to exclude the liability of forest owners to the detriment of forest visitors. While we support the fact that, despite the fact that no action against forest owners has yet been brought against them, the system law would prevent possible compensation actions against them. The fact is that we already have universally established free access to the forest and by introducing a new concept, as proposed in the basic text of the bill, would cause confusion and would not address the issue of responsibility. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary to make it very clear that visitors have access to forests at their own risk. We will therefore support the proposal by the amendment of the coalition to Article 1, which, according to our assessment, defines free access to the forest more clearly and at the same time stipulates that those who go into the forest do so on their own account. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the proposal for a new Forest Law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests is due, if I may say so, to a large extent to the acorns which affected forests in 2014 and thereby damaged as many as 9.1 million cubic metres of trees, but at the same time, before and after that, there was also a subscriber for climate change, all of which is reflected in forest management. This is why the law seeks to approach both forest owners and nature, in the sense that it is to be kept as effectively as possible from these natural attacks or changes. The adoption of the law will relieve businesses and forest owners of documentation to accompany the transport of forest wood varieties, which means that more effectively the damaged timber can be removed from the forests. In doing so, it is very important to respect the implementation of the regulation governing the prevention of the placing on the market of illegally cut timber and timber products and to ensure adequate traceability of forest wood varieties. A number of proposals have already been made before and also within this debate on this law, how to reduce the administration in ensuring the traceability of forest wood varieties, but we must also have this fact before our eyes, whether at some point the timber owner may not be further affected if it is found that this wood cannot be sold on the market. And an approximation of how to provide for a regulation is to ensure traceability of wood varieties by means of a bookkeeping document, such as a supplier. And that's the change we're making with this law. While the law also defines a growth coefficient, which is one of the elements for determining the height of the cadastral income, as it is the obligation of the forest owner to calculate the cadastral income, it is right to define this coefficient in the law, and it is also right to allow the correct calculation of this coefficient to be verified before the growth coefficient is finally implemented. The solutions that we have tried to design on the committee, and also that we have today in the form of amendments, go in the direction that if it turns out that verification for the growth coefficient is unjustified, of course, it is the cost of the owner. However, if the verification was justified, it covers the costs of the Forestry Office. So here, too, a solution is designed in a direction of relative responsibility for the formation of a calculation of the growth coefficient. With regard to the free access of visitors, we would like to stress that this access is available to them at their own risk, taking into account all the rules that protect the forest, that it retains its function both economically and in terms of preserving and protecting the nature and conservation of biodiversity. As far as sanitation is concerned – this may be the most effective measure of all of the measures listed in this law precisely because it has been possible so far in the sanitary section that damaged wood can remain in the forest, meaning that the subscriber could also spread to the unfavourable part of the forest and thus practically cause additional damage rather than repair in the forest due to the underprivileged. This law allows, in fact, the requirement to bring damaged wood into processing to the appropriate forest wood centres, which will certainly be one effective measure to prevent the spread of tree disease and to prevent damage in forests. For all these reasons, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The law under consideration replaces carriers with bookkeeping documents, establishes the procedure for administrative enforcement and the sale of forest wood varieties by another person and adds the definition of a growth coefficient. The first two things are essential to accelerate the repair of damage caused by the materiel. As regards administrative burdens, it is true that replacing companies with bookkeeping documents will reduce this burden. Accounting documents will continue to ensure the regulation of the wood market in a way that allows sustainable forest management and limits illegal trade in timber. But it is also true that to date we have had a moratorium on the use of vehicles, and this in itself has not helped to eliminate the damage in the forests. For this purpose, measures must be broader and this law offers in some way. In attempts to stop the attack on the ground, one of the main obstacles has been the long-term service of decisions on the execution of protective works and executions by another person. The ownership structure of forests in Slovenia is such that long-term procedures are sometimes difficult to implement. Many private forests are owned by two or more people. Many owners cannot be found, some have died, and hereditary procedures are still not completed, many live abroad and so on. Since these forests are private property, which is a protected category under the Constitution, state intervention in these forests is virtually impossible. When we pointed out this a month ago at an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Minister of Justice assured us that solutions were being sought in this regard. The law we are considering actually contains some of these solutions, but we are wondering whether these solutions are going far enough. The Forest Act is added to Article 29a, which specifies the procedure for administrative enforcement by another person. In the introductory part of the law, we can read that such a procedure is established in order to ensure the timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protective measures. But in fact, this article only makes more precise reference to what is already enshrined in Article 297 of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The question is, to what extent can only a more precise determination of the procedure, which is good, speed up the process itself. In the United Left, we believe that this procedure will not speed up significantly and that the law in this part is too ambitious. It is true, however, that to some extent the procedures will be accelerated by the amendment of the existing Article 57a, which, according to the new rule, provides that a person who is not included in the Land Book is also considered to be the owner if the Forestry Office obtains a charter that is the basis for the entry into the Land Book, or if the person himself proves to be the owner. Some solutions are too ambitious, but regardless of the extent of the damage in the forests, it requires us to take certain measures immediately and not wait until spring when the underlings are joyfully multiplying. That is why in the United Left we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats for her, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Dejan Židan with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we are extremely critical of the amendment of the Law on Forests, which was proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture or Government for consideration under urgent procedure. In view of the debate at the parental committee meeting, we are not alone in this opinion. The Ministry has tabled a poorly prepared, substantively flawed and nomotechnically incomplete law. In the first place, a new name for the accompanying document for forest wood varieties is disputed for New Slovenia. When we read the Ministry's explanations, we were raising the hope that they'd come to terms with a mistake and end the unfortunate solution, that's the carrier. A little later, we read that carriers are simply renamed into a new document — a charter of books. And here we have a big problem, ladies and gentlemen, the accounting charter is precisely defined in Slovenian accounting standards or more precisely Slovenian accounting standard 21, entered into force on 1 January 2012, and the Slovenian Institute for Audit adopted it at its meeting on 26 July 2011. Here it's clearly defined what a bookkeeping charter is. Moreover, the Legislative and Legal Service writes in its expert opinion that what the law says or the government says is a bookkeeping charter, it is not actually a bookkeeping charter. We have a big problem here. Sometimes our people rightly hold to the head, the laws we adopt in the National Assembly. We express our indignation at such a frequent exchange of names and forms of these accompanying documents, and we therefore call on the Ministry to propose clear, understandable and lasting solutions. New Slovenia proposed, among other things, an amendment to remove compensation liability for forest owners to third parties under the assumption of free access. Unfortunately, the coalition has not been able to adopt a good solution supported by a wide range of stakeholders, particularly forest owners. Slovenia is thus still one of the few European countries that legally allows free access to the forest, which in principle is nothing wrong, but legislation does not follow this, and on the other hand does not provide that visitors freely access the forests at their own risk. Today, among other things, the coalition has tabled such an amendment, which of course we will support. We also protested, on the proposal of the Ministry, that the costs of verifying a certain growth coefficient were borne by the forest owner. It is unacceptable to place new financial burdens on forest owners' farmers. At first glance, the coalition with the amendments seems to be changing this, but we will listen carefully to the debate. The Union of Forest Owners has made extensive comments on the proposal of the law, followed also by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, which has also proposed amendments. They propose, inter alia, that the growth coefficient be determined on a parcel rather than on a compartment or compartment. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats support their demands and we oppose the application of the growth coefficient as a basis for determining the amount of real estate tax, and we are against the undefinitely expanding possibility of free access of third parties to the forest, such as hedgehogs, cycling and so on. Today's amendments to the coalition go in the right direction and approach the proposals of NGOs, but unfortunately the areas are not regulated so that they can support it in Novi Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished minister with a team, dear colleague and colleague, one good day for you! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. Not the case, it is primarily one very urgent and important matter, because with 1. 1. 2017 remains an open issue of traceability and, of course, also the problem arising from the effective implementation of the Directive, European, 995/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. We must certainly not allow this to be completely in violation of this Regulation, so it is important that even at 1:00 a.m. 1. We have this area regulated to ensure that wood and wood varieties are monitored, that they come legally to the market and that unfair competition is adequately prevented. The amendment of the law also affects other areas, as has already been mentioned here, some specific features of the Slovenian space – free access to the forest. We know that many things can happen here if the owners, the forests, are burdened with compensation. We do not support this in our Group of Members, and we will therefore take a final decision in the end, given which amendments will be adopted, which will improve the existing one, currently on the Ministry's side of the solution. We are certainly in favour that forest owners should not be burdened with compensation. Third extremely important area to be addressed. As we know, we have introduced taxation in agriculture, cadastral income and the establishment of a growth coefficient is a very important element in determining the tax base for forest owners. We are not entirely satisfied with the solutions because it is a matter of determining the growth coefficient to a section or compartment covering a larger area. It may happen that a number of owners own a parcel that deviates substantially from that average growth coefficient that is determined on the section to be damaged. We absolutely oppose this and believe that a suitable solution will be found to verify the growth coefficient in a way that will not further burden forest owners. We support all those efforts where the costs of checking the growth coefficient are justified if the owner is justified in the administrative procedure, that is to say that it imposes that he would otherwise be harmed if he kept the original situation to bear these costs by the State. We must not forget, and we also agree in the Group of Members that certain solutions are very useful and important in the fight for better forest protection and, of course, forest management, because they are our national wealth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Your Honor! Transporters have been raving since 2013 since they were law-abiding, although they have never actually been introduced, that is, the end of this year's moratorium on these carriers. Nevertheless, on the basis of all initiatives, proposals and initiatives in the Modern Centre Party, we support the abolition of carriers. The government novelties that we are going to decide on today, along with the abolition of carriers, also bring other content that are essential for the more effective protection of forests against attacks by pests or grounders, so that the removal of damaged and damaged trees will be faster and less complex, thus preventing the spread of pests. It is an administrative execution procedure, the sale of forest wood varieties in case of execution by another person and the handling of this purchase. The law provides that, in the case of legal enforcement by another person, sanitary cuts and preventive protective works shall be carried out and that forest wood varieties shall be collected, taken away and sold on behalf of and on behalf of the debtor. Such a procedure shall be established with a view to ensuring the timely and effective implementation of sanitary sections and preventive protective measures. The remaining content is bound by the Cadastrian Income Identification Act. One of the elements for determining the height of the cadastral income is also the growth coefficient of the forest compound. We have adopted this law this summer and will begin to apply with the start of the new calendar year. In the SMC Group, we share the view that, in the event of the introduction of carriers, the previous government has become too far away from the actual problem, namely from the requirement to establish a wood traceability obligation. Nevertheless, we note that the act of illegally cut wood or products made from illegally cut wood is prohibited on the market in accordance with European Union law and therefore we need an appropriate tool to combat the grey economy in the field of forestry. Forest wood varieties for the market must be traceable in any case and at any time, which means that they must be accompanied by documents or documents proving their origin, where they were cut, to whom they are and so on. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we will support the proposed solutions that eliminate hate carriers and introduce, according to our assessment, appropriate traceability rules. In contrast to carriers for economic operators, the new law does not introduce any new instrument, but merely requires existing ones which they must have on the basis of other legislation. Even small farmers will no longer need specific documents if it is a wood intended for their own use, whether transport in the form of neighbourhood or related aid, and the quantity will not exceed 10 cubic metres, the forest authorities' decision or existing document, which farmers or forest owners have already had to obtain, will be sufficient for traceability. The only novelty is a special document which will have to be accompanied by wood, which will to a lesser extent be the subject of trade between natural persons, and in this case a statement will have to be kept for five years. The latter solutions are therefore, in our opinion, an appropriate substitute for the hated carriers. As regards the draft law on the working body and the additions adopted, which were included in the amended bill, we would like to point out in the SMC Group that we have already adopted in addition to the coalition amendments of opposition groups, namely the New Slovenia and the SDS, in the course of the discussion of the working body, and we have committed the Government to preparing amendments and amendments to the amendments adopted by the Council on the basis of the comments and proposals tabled in the debate before the meeting. With this we have shown sufficient responsibility to expect the opposition to follow our example at the assembly meeting and to hold a substantive debate without unnecessary politicisation and that solutions will be adopted to the best possible extent that follow the fundamental objectives and objectives of the proposed novel. Finally, with the adoption of the Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the establishment of the Slovenian State Forest Company, d.o.o., an environment was established for the transition to a new forest management system owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the establishment of a forest forest chain. Members of the SMC have therefore sought to play an important role in today's new wood collection and processing centres in the event of natural disasters and diseases and pest attacks in the forests and in the rehabilitation of damaged forests in establishing appropriate infrastructure for the effective rehabilitation of both state and private forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members, and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! We have before us this law, which, of course, is by emergency procedure and regulates the things that are absolutely necessary in order for things to be implemented in private forests as well. We must be aware, however, that there are four-fifths of forests in private forests, that this is much more than state forests, and that there are many things open. I will, of course, mention Article 1 here today. I am pleased that in Article 1, we have been able to complement, in the seventy-first indent, and to determine the location, it is said that even in these centres where the wood managed by the State Company will be collected, the d.o.o., that there will also be a wood that has been attacked, this is called sanitary cuttings, in particular in order to settle down there and prepare for further disposal. This will prevent the spread of basements on the one hand, and on the other hand we will also prevent the direct sale of timber across the border. Since there is a greater possibility that if a wood is stopped somewhere, it may be added to some added value by the time it is promised, this may be the first article in the forest wood chain. This marriage, as I said, is being resolved quickly, but there are a lot of things open here. and where, in fact, most of the problems felt by private people today, I see that the role of poor foresters has actually been replaced by another role over the past 15 years. Poor foresters have been employed in offices with some other work, but they are not actually on the ground. I therefore believe that we should move to a system law as soon as possible, where these things would be arranged for the role of the poor forester to be given greater competence, especially in order to advise forest owners, to warn them, say, of the attack of the underprivileged. I mean, this is my opinion that the reverend forester is the first article for the development of the forest wood chain. I also see it in that when wood is cut down, it comes to forest owners and advises, this wood, this log has such and such value, for example, we know that we have auctions of wood, where it can withstand up to ten times the value, but who will advise the farmer's owner if not the one who knows it, and these are the reverend foresters. I miss these things very much, and I hope that we can get to the system law as soon as possible, where we can also sort these things out. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy! In a way, I am pleased that this subject of forests in this House is being reopened. It also attracts more and more Members to this Chamber, so I think the topic is topical, especially in the context of the State and Parliament's attitude towards natural resources, as we have demonstrated by the introduction of water into the Constitution. From this point of view, I understand the amendments and the content of our amendments, even to 1. Article, in this context. I am particularly pleased to see the representatives of the Government, the so-called forest wooden chain, in fact, in a living image, which is also symbolic and I welcome such an approach by the coalition and the government, two ministries to solve this common origin, which we have also written as a coalition. In this context, when we first addressed the legislation concerning carriers sent to Parliament by the SDS positioning party, only one topic was concerned, namely the abolition of carriers, which was a real topic but did not raise other issues relating to this topic. Of course, since this law is the so-called roofing law in the field of forestry, it also deserves greater attention, greater consideration and also opens up the most to it. In the context of the law drafted by the Ministry followed and touched on the pressing problems of economic damage caused in the forests by so-called sanitary cuts, either due to agglomerations, basements and other natural disasters. And in this context, I welcome the solutions that this law introduces in this article and in the following articles, but in particular I would point out what we in the Modern Centre Group have specifically sought to introduce in this law further amendments and content that have particularly highlighted the established so-called forest forest chains and wood collection and processing centres. For I consider this to be a long-term approach to the attitude towards the forest and also to the management of this natural resource. The Forest Act receives new contents with the so-called forest wood chain, which, in addition to the rules on forest cultivation, then this chain is also drawn into suitable production, wood harvesting and wood production in value added products. Let me repeat now where these most important points were. It is a matter of determining in some way a location that does not pose a risk to the spread of the lobular, and these are the very centres for the collection and processing of wood. And of course then the government can somehow determine where these centres are, what content will be given to them, here in the context of a coalition contract that establishes a forest wood chain and also the opening of jobs. That's about the amendments to point one. I would just like to repeat that in a way I am pleased that we have also opened the articles and content that we have transferred from the Forest Management Act to a bill governing the content of all forests and private ones. In this respect, too, this law deserves so much more attention and, as has also been provided by the Secretary of State, we can expect a short review of this law and a comprehensive solution in the umbrella law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you, President for your word. I will try to keep the amendments, but first, as Chairman of the committee responsible for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, I say that we have had a very concrete and very constructive debate on the Committee. I must say that, unlike the other committees, we may be much less coalition and opposition and much more constructive, so thanks and thanks to all those who have been constructively debated, but not only to the members of the committee, but also to all those invited to receive a draft law from the second reading on the home work body today before us, who somehow wanted to clear up or clear up certain issues. Therefore, certain amendments to a certain article are very similar both by the SDS Group of Members and by the coalition groups of Members. Allow me to touch on two points in Article 1. First, the issue of forest owners and so-called free access to the forest, and second, the growth coefficient. Our amendment, which speaks, I quote, will make it easier for people to know what we are talking about, to say, quote: “The forest owners are not responsible for the damage and damage to forest visitors in free access to the forest.” The Coalition has achieved a slightly different formulation, which we insist on our formulation, where, at least according to our information, this dictatorship was also aligned with the Forest Owners Union. We have not received from the Legislative and Legal Service that there would be no possibility that this dictatorship would be respected. If we know that the association of forest owners is not just a mini organ, if it represents 460,000 forest owners who are privately owned in the Republic of Slovenia, we know that we are talking about a large number of people, and perhaps even a number of forest owners are not aware of how important this law is. With this amendment, we want to achieve, directly, that forest owners are not responsible for everything that is done in their forests, whether it is a free transition, whether it is a violation of the collection of different fruits or the exercise of other activities carried out in private forests. And here we have, at least in the SDS Group, a bit of a mixed sense of whether this dictatorship advocated by members of the coalition is sufficiently clear about free access, in the case of various compensation cases, lawsuits, if you want, lawyers or lawyers would have the right legal basis or legal dictatorship to know exactly whether or not it is a liability. In our opinion, our amendment is more concrete and more corrective. Of course it's up to you to answer. As for the issue of the growth coefficient that we have already addressed in the Cadastrian Income Act. You all know that in the SDS Group we opposed that law, let us leave what this law will bring after 2018, when the cadastral income will rise enormously, but the growth coefficient is one of those fundamental points when we want to determine the cadastral income. This cadastral income should be calculated very precisely. Why, in our opinion, is it very accurate? Because, in fact, cadastral income is the basis for many other social and tax transfers. And we have a problem when it's written down, and I quote: "The growth coefficient is a relative indicator of the quality of the forest union." I believe that we do not have to calculate accurately for every millimeter, centimeter or every euro, but how people can be sure that everything is right and that they have got the right calculation of cadastral income if the law says "The Rascist coefficient is a relative indicator". And once again, I know it's hard to explicitly write what and how, but if we're talking about such an important matter as cadastral income, it's hard to say that the basis for calculating this cadastral income is a growth coefficient that is a relative indicator. In short, we expected that in the debate on cadastral income, and in particular in this law, we would have a much more precise dictatorship so that all 460,000 forest owners would not doubt the correctness of the calculation. And you know, when we talk about tax or social transfers in our country, when you can fall into a higher or lower group because of one euro, people are very sensitive to such things, because then they get that the calculation was made on the basis of relative indicators. I would really like to think together by the end of this bill, so today, perhaps we will all think together, particularly the representatives of the Government and the Institute of Forests, that we may find a better dictatorship in this amendment. That is why we will not oppose the coalition amendment, because we believe it follows all those objectives that we have discussed on the committee itself. However, we would really like then, in calculating the cadastral income as regards the growth coefficient and the ownership of owners in the transition to the forest, to have no real life in practice, both forest owners and all the other residents and residents who exploit the private forest for such and other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags has the floor. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the issues raised by Mr Lisec, we would like to clarify that we have already addressed this issue on the Committee and that the solution, as adopted, is also consistent with the forest owners. In fact, the debate was about whether to use “allow” or “free transition”, and the term “free passage” was used mainly because it was already used in law and the term “allowed access” was not yet defined in the law, so it was not appropriate for such a solution from a nominal technical point of view. In the case of relativity, the coefficient should be stressed that it is not a concept that reflects the inaccuracy of the calculation, but rather an expression that actually reflects that the individual coefficients used are in some relative relationship. So much for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President for your word. The proposal for this law came to the table mainly because of the fact that carriers, which are nonsense and for which some of the Members of the post had already been introduced, said that this was unnecessary additional bureaucracy in order to replace carriers as suppliers. As a result of the adversarial and then the emergence of the sub-bundels, these carriers did not become established because they would additionally burden the expertise that was necessary in the field at the time, that is to say, the Institute of Forests. And after the position suggested that these carriers should be abolished, further to extend the moratorium, the Government was, of course, against and stated that other things needed to be changed by this law, such as what we are now solving with regard to forest rehabilitation. I think that this is two years too late, it should be 2014 and not 2016, when the subscribers have already assembled most of the igures. I'd like to welcome this vehicle to stand down. It would no longer have to be introduced, since even at the time of the absence of the carrier, the Government claimed that with regard to the European Regulation everything was in order as well, since the Government had to give the report to the European Commission in 2015 and the next report would be 2017. This is said if we meet the conditions laid down in the European Regulation without a carrier, why then there is something else to be introduced in this area. Why now the bookkeeping charter? In my opinion, it's only because of this, but it wouldn't be the name of the supplier. You are also stating in the case of the legal tightening of the bill because you say that carriers are to be suspended and that forest forest transport companies will use their documentation, such as the supplier, if the data are required in accordance with this law. That's what we said at the time. Then you give a picture of public participation in the preparation of this law – so far the carrier should no longer be prescribed as a mandatory document. The transport of forest wood varieties should be subject to documents which are also used in business practice in the transport of wood, for example, a supplier. This has all of Europe. All the countries have that. Perhaps after you wrote this, you realized that the delivery was not a real name, that it would be too similar to what the opposition had said at the outset, and you made up a ledger. On the committee itself, I said that Slovenian accounting standard No. 21 of 2012 simply mentions the bookkeeping charter, but the bookkeeping charter is for the identification of a business event, for the bookkeeping and not as an accompanying document in the transport of some goods, for this there are suppliers from other signatures. It's a shame to hang out like that. As for the growth coefficient, I would say that we will see in the future what will come of this, what will come of this KD, and then what will be the income that the government will go towards. With regard to free entry into the woods, let me say that one amendment was that enough entry is "free entry", that's what a cop once said to me: "I walked by by accident and could barely find." Do you understand? Free entry or free entry are two different concepts. If in our constitution is private property of the world, then if someone can cross the road because it is their own land, we cannot just immediately have free entry into the forests of everyone, because it is private property.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	It's obviously still an interest in the debate. Please sign up! Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President, for your word. A few questions have already come up, something has already been resolved on the working body of the mother, so I think it is urgent to answer a few dilemmas here. Dear President of the Committee on Agriculture, thank you very much for the constructive cooperation and working at this meeting as well. This is what we announced at the beginning of the mandate, and of course we want this very much further. Deeply, we believe it is on your question why your amendment is not acceptable and why we have proposed our own, because we consider our amendment to be broader than what the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group has proposed. By the way, your definition is 38. The points of Article 1 concern you only with compensation responsibility, but this is a question which is also pointed out by the unrelated Member of Lah now and I am answering together, namely the concepts that we need to define. Of course, the difference is essential. I would like to react, however, that property is not completely unlimited or is not absolute, as property rights are also exercised in accordance with the Constitution by ensuring the economic, social and environmental function of property. Of course, the questions are strongly interlinked and the permission means that you should go to the owner, which the owners most likely do not want all recreational visitors to knock on doors and possibly get another written document about allowing him to enter the forest. Given that we have almost two-thirds of the area of the Republic of Slovenia covered by forests, and given that it was also given to 460 thousand owners, this would mean unnecessary burden, so we have sought the best definition and, unlike yours, the distinguished President and representative of today obviously the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, unlike the very substantive provision that does not fall under the terms, we have offered a broader definition, which also includes your question. In fact, instead of identifying, as you suggest, forest owners not responsible for the damage and damage caused to forest visitors by free access to the forest, we define free access to the forest, which means free walking of persons in the forest and other access to the forest, which is carried out on our own responsibility. And now also the answer to this dilemma that Member Lach has set up and is in line with the rules governing forests. So we believe that in the Forest Law we will still find the right solutions and that this content of access to the forest will continue to be dealt with as we come up with new systemic changes, because today, of course, we are only in the face of urgent changes. So much may be answered in one case, because it was desirable to answer, and in another case you encouraged me to discuss with your dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags has the floor. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! There has been a rather broad debate on how the documentation to date should be handled in a different standard way in order to reduce the administrative burden. Much attention has also been paid to the name, use and similar aspects. As regards the supplier, as mentioned above, it has to be said that such a solution has been considered, but then we come to what is not in use, in traffic between legal entities, a document supplier, but a receiver or a transmission or possibly a transmitter, because Slovenian accounting standards in its B section below the 215 ledger document are described as a collection of types of documents which they have under the current legislation governing financial operations and legal traffic, and the right to define themselves the names of documents that are accompanying the goods. Thus, from this point of view, the term “bookkeeping document” has been used, which has already been used, the deadline applied and for which I believe that legal entities that are actually going to do so have to be aware that 90% of traffic takes place in such a way that farmers or forest owners bring smaller amounts of wood to the truck road and then take it over from companies that then, of course, issue the recipient to the farmer and themselves transport the goods forward with the delivery to the first warehouse, which then collects and passes the timber forward on the market of the European Community. This is the so-called traceability system and the bookkeeping charter is here the deadline and we believe that it will not cause any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am putting paragraphs 2, 21 and 22 into the debate. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to this article are interconnected, we will discuss these articles and the amendments tabled together. I shall put to the debate Articles 2, 21 and 22 and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 2, 21 and 22 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 2 and 22. However, I would like to point out that the amendment of the amendment of the coalition to Article 2 has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Well, here, too, we might continue to have a little discussion with the previous article and illustrate why we have worked so hard in the Modern Centre Party for this amendment to Article 2, which otherwise reads as follows: “A new paragraph is added after the first paragraph, namely, ‘In the forest management plan of the forestry unit, activities that are necessary for the economic and efficient management of forests can also be identified.’ In the explanatory memorandum, we have somehow agreed on the following text to give this amendment the opportunity to define activities in the forest management plan of the forestry management unit which would provide the conditions for the establishment of forest forest chains. Well, why do I think it's so important? Of course, I find it hard to believe that in some ways all this economic damage, caused by the phalanges and also by the lobulators, which in recent years has been so steep and repeated, and that this damage has reached as much as 1 billion in the last 20 years and that we have had a health cut in the last 35%. This is a huge number, namely 24 million cubic meters. I am setting up a baseline thesis that in some way setting up these wood collection and production centres, which we are also mentioning in this amendment, would mean a new solution that would also reduce this damage in the long run. This will allow the possibility of organising these centres for private individuals to be indicated in these forestry units. In this way, of course, we have covered, and have extended the so-called basic point of the Law on the Management of State Forests also to the Law on Forests, which in some ways includes private individuals, and in some ways gives private people the opportunity and solutions to establish these centres in a similar way as a company in the state of ownership, on a private initiative. This would, of course, contribute in a long way to reducing damage in the forests, as it will stimulate and establish centres where this wood will store, peel and sort. This is the beginning of a new forest wood chain, which, of course, we are working very hard in the Modern Centre Party as well. In this way, I am very pleased that we have been able to bring this content into this law. However, I would certainly like to express my conviction that, in addition to this solution, the Law on Forests should also be systematically regulated. Therefore, in some ways, I expect that, together, the ministries will join in a comprehensive reform of the law within six months, which will solve these good extensions even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Once again, everyone, welcome! I will remain with Article 2 even though my colleague Danilo has said this quite extensively. We were just somewhere when we were coordinated, and as we could also contribute and add articles in the Modern Centre Party, as was possible in this law, because we know that there is a rapid process and that there was not much time. Even so, there were not so many open articles that we could make those desires that we had more of, of course, but we could also put them into these articles. The fact is, as a lumberjack, I somehow cannot get past the fact that these trucks driving wood abroad not only to Austria and Italy, that this matter will continue. We've partially solved some things now with the Law on State Forests, but this is just the beginning. We must follow this and therefore we will have to systematically resolve this Law on Forests. We need to know that it's going here. I'll point it out again. I said four-fifths of the woods. That is to say, at the beginning of the year, when we talked about state forests, we only solved the good 20% of these state forests, or somehow around this state-owned enterprise, which is now otherwise in charge. We must all be aware that we cannot trade in wood together, but that we must trade and sell as much refined finished products as possible, which will have as much added value as possible. In fact, this should be the task of all citizens, because otherwise we will not be able to get new jobs. And the goal is to come, because we know that 20, 25 years ago, about 40, 45 thousand jobs were directly involved in the processing of wood, and in conjunction with transport and trade, about 70,000. This is a very large number, and we have to get to it. If we all don't work together, we'll never get there. That is why we have actually tried to add things to these articles, but of course everything is not going well. I mentioned earlier that we must get to this system law, where we will define the poor forester differently. We have already talked about this, and experts in this area, both from the Department and the Ministry, have not opposed it, but we must really oppose it. This role, which the poor forester has lost, must have a much greater role in these private forests, because here, in fact, most farmers and these poor farmers must advise the farmer. As I mentioned earlier, a poor forester is the first article in a chain to create a forest forest chain. This is where it starts to add value, because we can get 50, 100 euros for the log, but we can also get 10 times more if someone who knows it properly evaluates it. And the foresters certainly know each other at that part of the log, or tree, in the forest. But, of course, there will have to be others here, and of course there will be also forestry. I am therefore pleased that, in this Article 2 that has been added, 1a, this economic plan of the forestry unit can also identify the activities necessary for the economic and efficient management of forests. If I somehow explain this matter, however, this article provides an opportunity for those working in a forest management plant to somehow define an activity that would ensure the establishment of forest forest chains for the time being. However, in the new law, we will of course have to define these matters differently to move as soon as possible to keep the cold in Slovenia and to elevate ourselves here, so that we can get to new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on these articles. We're moving on. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 3, 4 and 18 are linked, we will discuss these articles and the amendments tabled together. I shall put to the debate Articles 3, 4 and 18 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members to Articles 3, 4 and 18 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members to Articles 4 and 18. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you, President, for your word. The third or fourth paragraphs amend paragraphs 17b and 17c of the existing law, refer to so-called companies or the so-called bookkeeping charter. In the SDS Group we had problems with carriers already in 2013, when introduced by the current Minister, Mr Dejan Židan. We have already argued, and today we claim that carriers are some senseless bureaucratic measure. That this is some senseless bureaucratic measure, it is also evident at the time when we have a moratorium due to gloating, which unfortunately affected a large part of Slovenian forests at the beginning of 2013. For, as my colleague Zvona Lah has said before, the Government has also argued at this time that the decision of the Institute for Forests is a serious enough document to be able to follow this European regulation on traceability. And when we proposed the abolition of the SDS in the SDS Group at that time, I still say that our proposal of September this year, which has strictly touched the abolition of the carriers, and the 8th and 9th sections of this Act, which want to accelerate the cutting or regulation of the Slovenian private forests after the acorn, was a proper and sufficient measure. But even though the government said it would shut down carriers, they're only quitting as a word of the carrier, but they're still talking about the bookkeeping charter. And I am interested in what is the difference between today's date and the date when we discussed our law at the October session, because I am quoting from all media, and I will only take one article, it was said: "The Coalition and the opposition are of the opinion that transporters should be removed from the forest". In our view, we should stop carriers de facto, not modifying the ledger, and with certain editorial moments that I will talk about below, we may still keep them alive, but we may have a little bit less sense about the functioning of natural persons when they bring home wood from Slovenian forests themselves, but there is still a lot of nonsense. Discontinuation of carriers is an administrative burden if they were de facto terminated. Let's go in one order. 17.b Article where we propose that "forest wood varieties loaded on or transported by road shall be accompanied by a decision of the Institute for Forests in order to monitor the traceability of forest transport and control". And here, in Article 4, we say: "A more detailed form and content and the way in which the decision is kept is prescribed by the Minister of Forestry." We still argue that we have a decision to make if you want to follow in this pit of yours, in order to really control everyone, to arrange anything, you could give this document, which is called a decision, another indent, any paragraph, and everyone will be satisfied. That way, we'll have a decision and a bookkeeping charter. However, in accordance with Article 4 of the Act, the Bookkeeping Charter must contain data on the owner of the tree, data on the consignor of the forest wood variety, data on the recipient of forest wood varieties, data on the carrier, type and registration number of the vehicle, place, date and time of loading, place and date of unloading, type and quantity of forest wood varieties and order number of the bookkeeping document. Moreover, the data on the consignor shall include a personal name, address and tax number and, in the case of legal persons, the name of the company, seat or tax number. Why do we think that the so-called bookkeeping charter or carrier is nonsense? We've had since this year's 1st. Seven. 2016 Company Slovenian National Forests. They are not subject to traceability problems. We said that Minister Jew set up a client company and leave them alone to do anything. We gave them a guarantee, but let's leave them alone. Let's leave it at the side of what's been going on since 1. 7. To this day, with this company, when all we know is what the salaries of the company’s leading officials are, and we do not know the other serious things, it is, in our opinion, the SDS Group believes, one crucial moment where we differ. Throughout 2013, when we talked about the Law on Forests and These Transporters, the SD and Desus are also part of the current and current coalition, as well as the SMC, that the problem of logging is black in private forests. We argue, however, that practice has shown that the key problem of logging is black in state forests. First time. Private owners have largely regulated ownership and know where it is. They know exactly that there's a John out there that I don't know where he's going to get to Jozet from, and I don't know where he's going to cut and cut huge quantities, and I'm going to say, huge quantities, in my opinion, it's over 10 cubic meters, which is also regulated by this law. But you still claim that the problem is ownership in private forests and not ownership in state forests. If we are looking at Article 3, where, after we have listened to you to warn you that carriers are nonsense, you are a little fond of this concept of a bookkeeping document because you say that it is not necessary for forest wood varieties obtained from forests owned by natural persons who are loaded on or transported by road if their total quantity does not exceed 10 cubic metres. And we already have one limit, 10 cc's. Next: if they are loaded onto a vehicle and the ranges are transported in diameter up to a maximum of 10 cm on the thicker end, another restriction. But even though this is not the case, it says: “In this case, the transport of forest forest ranges is accompanied by a declaration or another charter.” We have a decision of the institution, and we have a bookkeeping document, and we now have: a statement or other document stating the type and quantity of forest wood varieties, the place and date, the consignor, the carrier and the recipient, this statement and the other document must be kept by the consignor and the recipient for five years and so on, but the provisions of this Article and these paragraphs shall also apply to forest wood varieties obtained from forest trees growing outside the forest. In short, as referred to in paragraph 1, a new nonsense. And the limit is 10 cubic meters, and the limit is 10 centimeters, and the limit is if it's not a natural person or a legal person. In addition to making the first distinction between Slovenian state forests and private individuals, you are now separating them. Once again, if John as a natural person gives France as a natural person, it will be okay if he is less than 10 cubic feet [10 cm] away, he will still have to have something. If one of these two are legal persons, then the bookkeeping document is a fact. This is completely contrary to what you promised. Both acts, so our proposal for a law is October and your draft law, are proposing the abolition of carriers. The main reason for their elimination is the need for rapid and effective forest rehabilitation. Yes, once again, articles 8 and 9 are very well written, which talk about faster rehabilitation of Slovenian forests after the acorn and after the skull, but this is primarily the fault of the government and perhaps of us. Even if the SDS Group suggested that there was some kind of diction, such as 8 or 9. Article, would you say – what? What the SMC predecessors said was a non-systemic approach. Now we've all been waiting from March 2013 to November 2016 to make it work faster, but still, I quote: “The faster and more efficient forest rehabilitation will not be that you will still have the book charter.” It is a completely pointless measure and, in our opinion, if there must already be a document, which we always claim must be, we always claim that the decision is sufficient. If, in your opinion, the decision does not contain sufficient information, we hereby give you Articles 3 and 4 to provide a more detailed form and content of this decision by the Minister, but there are still enough reasons for officials at the Ministry not to give a doctorate to debate again. The carrier is no longer, we have a bookkeeping document, we have decisions, we have a delivery machine and we have, as you yourself said, a statement or another document. In short, completely pointless Slovenian farmers, but there are fines attached to this, because you are looking forward to it, you will say, we will give a little warning for three months and then we will hit the woods and give Slovenian private forest owners fines of EUR 2 000 500 to 50,000. At least we have proposed proportionately that no financial inspector John will be given the highest possible punishment that could happen because he hates France. And no one will convince me, “Yes, they will give him the least penalty anyway”. Where does the minimum sentence say? The fine is fined, and in the meantime the free movement is for the financial inspector, or for a policeman, to give a man a fine. If you really want to do what you've been defending, you will support our articles by paragraphs 3 and 4, because we still have a traceability called a decision. Now we'll have a decision and an accounting document. We also call for the deletion in Article 18 of this provision, which also removes fines, even in some other amendments, we have tried to reduce fines, but apparently the owners of private forests are some skydigare, where certain financial resources need to be filled, and they are even threatened with deforestation. On the other hand, we have a Slovenian state-owned company, the Slovenian National Forests, where no one can know what their plans for concrete or current action are, even though the plans for their future operation were the answer of this company when we expected individual responses that these data were either not available or that the state-owned company did not have them. The fines in this law are as high as the fines in banking crime. And even if you get one farmer who will drive for example 11 cubic metres of wood and has legal personality status, he will be able to get up to 50 thousand years of age, and all that he has done will be taken away from him. However, take a little look at this picture in the area of banking crime, which some of the SDS species we have been alerting for a long time, and there is no listening. So there should be millions of damages and fines, but no, there is 50,000 euros enough, and here you will hit a private farmer in addition to taking a financial fine. Then, when we look at this agricultural land law that you are preparing, and if it is true that the Agricultural Land Fund will be second in turn, the policy of this minister, who is becoming increasingly obvious to farmers or in this case owners of good forest, on the other hand works from a criminal farmer and wants gradually through the Agricultural Land Fund, through the Slovenian State Forests to slowly turn the wheel of private property in a different direction. This direction is called nationalization. If you allow this, know that forest owners will have problems not only with you, unfortunately they will have problems in practice when they ask themselves whether it is even worth dealing with forests or giving it all to the company Slovenian State Forests, which is the only one who has a desire to nationalise Slovenian private forests. Apparently, private property is no longer what some understand in 2016 under the terms of democracy and the market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags has the floor. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Perhaps we would start a little bit back with Mr Lisco's remarks, because sometimes I get the feeling when we talk about this topic, as if the country wished to introduce some unnecessary documents to haunt farmers. The Regulation of the European Union on timber governing this area is not intended to do so, but rather to regulate the transport of timber in the European Union. Initially and again, 90% of these documents, which are on the market and in farmers, will be issued by companies, not by farmers. Farmers bring wood, the company usually weighs it on the truck path or takes it over and can weigh it in the warehouse and issue a document which is also the basis for later payment. This is not about criminalizing farmers or anything like that. It is necessary to establish a legality that will allow trade in wood for Slovenian companies dealing with it, even for the furniture industry, not least that Chinese producers are not able to sell furniture in the USA because they do not have traceability. Or do you want to, we probably can't afford that. In this regard, allow me to read a regulation or provisions on what the purpose of this Regulation, which came into force from 2013, entered into force on 3 March 2013, I think 14 days before the date of the government of Alenka Bratušek. He says: “The logging of wood which does not comply with the laws and regulations of the country in which the logging is carried out is illegal. Illegal logging is a global problem that strongly affects the economy, the environment and society. The impact on the economy is loss of income and other benefits. The environmental effects of illegal logging are related to deforestation, climate change, loss of biodiversity. The social consequences of illegal logging are often linked to disputes over land and resources, the impoverishment of local and indigenous communities and armed conflicts. Because of illegal activities, wood products are marketed at lower prices, but they are the product of illegal logging and thus undermine the efforts of responsible economic operators. To combat trafficking in illegal timber, the EU adopted a new Timber Regulation in October 2000. The Regulation is one of the actions under the EU Action Plan...« and so on. In short, it entered into force on 3 March 2013 and, as has already been said several times, the then government has made a great deal of haste to catch the deadline, so it has handed over to the current minister at the time of the handover a marriage package has already been prepared. Here I have a copy of the legislative procedure from that period, namely the drafting of the law began in mid-October 2010 and was completed at the General Secretariat of the Government 22. 2. 2013, in short, all coordination, intersectoral coordination and so on. It is worth repeating that the government of Alenka Bratusek has performed 20. 3. In short, it's a product from that period. As you can see, there was a great deal of hurry. That's the way it is. We took that as a fact. However, the product is the same as it was, carriers were introduced because it is easier to introduce a new document because coordination with existing documents, which already exist, is much harder work because you have to coordinate things with sectoral legislation. Therefore, the current Charter of Accounting is not something to rename the carrier, but the carrier is in fact being suspended, and the two documents remain one because they now have both documents. Now the carrier will not be required, but it will only be a bookkeeping document. Of course, it had to be stated in the law that the document to be taken into account in this Regulation is this bookkeeping instrument, which also stems from the operation of companies. So much for understanding on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you, Secretary of State of Mags. That's right. That's right. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you. Because for the last time, it was said how John Janša’s government was preparing it. Officials at the Ministry were preparing, and Janša's government gave this senseless bureaucratic approach a red light, and then a new government came and convinced by the same officials that this traceability was necessary. And once again, according to the SDS Group, the key problem is the traceability of forest forest varieties from state forests, but they do not have carriers there, they do not have a bookkeeping charter, they only have a government guarantee that they are working for the time being, because we do not see their documents what they want. The distinguished Secretary of State that it is easier to make a new regulation than to harmonise the existing one — if that is the bureaucratic logic that they have sold to you, then even more so is the fact that this government has succumbed to bureaucratic lobbying. To conclude: How did you, from April 2013 onwards, perform traceability because the carrier was not needed? Have you achieved the regulations of the European Union or not? If you're her, then why the ledger? If you haven't, it's another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it, mag. Podgoršek I am also giving you the opportunity to make your statement, so I would suggest that you sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will limit myself to this ledger and, however, whether it is really just a name change or a cancellation of the carrier. It seems to me that some do not understand or do not want to understand why it is. In order to make it easier for us to imagine, above all, that they will be able to imagine farmers, because I think farmers are the most concerned about what is now with this ledger, whether this fear that the opposition is trying to shake to the bone is justified or not, whether they will really need a new bureaucratic obstacle or not. If we look at the potato farmer today. A farmer sells potatoes to a hospital, a school, a cafeteria. When he takes this potato farmer to this hospital, he has to give something to this hospital next to a potato, on which he can even pay off the hospital or school this potato. And this is a charter that can then be kept in bookkeeping, a bookkeeping charter. In this case, when we have potatoes where no invoices are issued because it can be taxed on the basis of cadastral income, it is a delivery. If he sells strawberries, he'll pay the bill. And this is this ledger we're talking about. It's not a new document. These documents exist today. If you want to be paid for selling to someone, a legal person, you have to give a charter on which to make that payment. And now it's the same, so if a farmer who sells strawberries or a farmer who sells potatoes can write it, and when we talk about this information that needs to be given, what is his name, where he lives, the tax number, it usually has farmers already on the stamp and you hit up the delivery stamp, where it's all written, and then you just add the amount and order number, and it's not such a big scary thing. It already exists today. And if you want to sell someone, you have to give them one piece of paper, and that's this ledger that already exists today, which you should have by now if you wanted to get paid. The payment was not made in black, but on the basis of a document. But when we talk about natural persons who drive refrigeration for themselves at home, in these cases there is no need to have anything, except the decision you need anyway, if you want to break something legally. But if I sell this wood to another natural person, I need something, and that's one statement that this wood came from. If I, say, buy wood from Mr. Lach, I don't have the forest myself, and then let's say I sell it from somewhere, I have to tell you where I got this wood. It's just one brief statement, nothing so big, no such big fun. So the trucks are actually shutting down, but, of course, you have to have, like everyone else who's selling something, a charter that's gonna give you your first payment and you're gonna prove who you are, what you are, where you're from and where you're going. So what applies to other things and so far has also been applied to wood varieties, is now applicable, but these statements are added between two natural persons, which is not a major bureaucratic obstacle and no great entertainment, but ensures this traceability, that is to say, if I have no forest and I have wood, I have to tell you where I got this wood from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues and all those who listen and follow this meeting! When we speak in the Republic of Slovenia about forests, there is always a question of where the rabbit seals, especially when we are amending or supplementing the Law on Forests. Most of the time, when we adopt or amend laws and burden citizens and citizens, we appeal to a European regulation. That's always a fact. And of course, when we change the law, especially when we add a little fog, we opt for a European regulation. I remember a while ago – I know this is awkward to listen to – I remember a while ago when a new perspective was being prepared 2014-2020. The minister said that his associates or everyone is working night and day to make this regulation together. And of course, when we had concerns on the Committee, on certain things, it has always been said that this is a European regulation. And of course, we accidentally went between this time of the Member and Members, one part of the Members and Members to Brussels, and of course we asked that question, and I was personally interested in that. There we were told clearly if I turn this into a picture that we will get the picture frame in Brussels and the picture is drawn within this framework by our bureaucrats. And what happened? When we put this perspective into life, that our farmers are very difficult to apply for these calls and are increasingly having problems, this is a European regulation that we are always voicing, but this is our regulation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been struggling, my predecessors, to see that this carrier, which has been with this minister, who has been leading the ministry for several years now, has been introduced. Thank God a moratorium has been reached. Here too, the question arises to me, what are the consequences of today's introduction of a new charter, which is the consequences of the European regulation. Surely the Ministry had to report years ago, and it would be interesting to see this data. It is unacceptable, therefore, that in the area of forests, which I believe is one of the great riches in Slovenia, we should behave in this way. With this proposal and the amendment of the law, we burden smaller farmers where the problem is minimal or mostly absent. If anyone is a good master, a good guardian of the Slovenian forest, it is certainly a Slovenian farmer. Unfortunately, the data, in 20% of the Slovenian forest owned by the state, is now managed by the Gozd state company, and there is concern that since it was introduced this year, there were no carriers there, but in your opinion no accounting charter is necessary. It's not right. I do not think it is right to impose this amendment on a Slovenian farmer, and we are also hiding in this correction large fines, which are high and unacceptable for this area. I call on all Members and Members to take into account at least the articles we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, it seems to me that someone in Slovenia has taken the forest area for his own, and the script is prepared from the establishment of the company to that, and I do not think that there will be a long time when we have a fund at the National Assembly tables, especially when it comes to purchases of the Slovenian forest in the future. I ask myself, all Members of Parliament and Members, and the biggest coalition party, Desus, where the power of the SD is here in this scenario, which has been taking place since the Minister has been running this ministry, of course. Slovenian forest is not from an individual, whether owned by the State or privately owned, but is a wealth owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I suggest that you consider these articles and that we treat the Slovenian forest as a natural resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Underpants. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Marjan Podgoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It has been repeated here that there is no need to take into account traceability of the Slovenian State Forests of this Regulation. That's not true. The company is in no way excluded from this system under this proposal. Perhaps the case is blurred because in the past, when dealing with the carrier, an exception was included and it was included because in international practice and general practice these accounting documents and transport documents are actually used to prove traceability. Wood transport here is no greater exception, we have traceability in beef, we have in animals, in short, a lot of goods in international traffic are currently being followed and we need to prove very precisely the origin. This concept is already in place and is being implemented around here. However, there are problems in the area of wood because these changes and the introduction of such traceability systems came later than in some other areas. However, the problems are also due to illegal logging, particularly from other continents, which also causes significant damage to forests in Africa, South America and so on. We also discussed several times why it was not a decision on the cut issued by the Institute for Forests. The decision on the cut issued by the institution on the content is not appropriate to be the accompanying document. In the accompanying document, the quantities relating to this must have a unique identification, may not relate to more decisions and, last but not least, it could be on the truck that drives this, including the timber of several owners. In short, there would be a totally unclear situation and, unfortunately, the option to adapt the existing cut decisions is not useful. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Mr. President-in-Office. For a short time, however, we should now point out somewhere that this ledger is some existing document, a domestic invoice, which is issued here and in fact a document that already exists and that it is, in this direction, a simplification and traceability of wood, which can also be sold in the form of products on the European market. Of course, we forget in this case how many cases in the past, including the various timber traders who traded without documentation, we also remember the contribution from the television where an entrepreneur had chained companies and cheated how many owners. So we also need to see in this light that this system introduces some order on the market, traceability, and will also allow, in some way, to pursue any trade in wood in black. In this context, too, I see progress in establishing some order in the wood business in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Škodnik, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, again. I'd just like to add a little bit more to the tracking. Today there has been a lot of talk about this, and it is also right that I should say my opinion somehow for the end. Today we talked about traceability in private forests, how this is a problem, what documentation is most appropriate, whether this is required under some European legislation. These things, I think it's settled in this marriage somehow. Of course, I ask, traceability in state forests, something has been said that it is not, if there is really no traceability in this area, but I would ask that matters be regulated so that traceability is also there. That's what I'd really like to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. The State firm is an independent economic operator with its own management, a supervisory board, must operate with legislation governing companies, must comply with Slovenian accounting standards, the bookkeeping charter referred to earlier is part of one standard, the Slovenian accounting standards cover a whole set that regulates the entire business range and the Slovenian State Forests are bound to comply with these standards, which require traceability in the movement of goods both within and outside the company. Otherwise, they would not only violate these laws, but also the legislation governing tax operations, financial transactions and so on. As far as the Ministry has information, because in some areas the company is reporting in detail to it already on the basis of the law and jurisdiction we have in the Slovenian State Forest, they certainly have a system in place, following which the timber is followed both in the movement within the company, because it is, after all, largely, 200, and also many forests manage, more than 230 000, and undoubtedly also outwardly, because ultimately, on the basis of this, we charge the devoted and sold timber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thanks, mag. Podgoršek, Secretary of State. I'm asking, colleagues and colleagues, who else wants to discuss it? I find that no, so I conclude this item or this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the SDS Group's amendments. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 33rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 32. This is a draft resolution on the National Security Programme before natural and other disasters in 2016-2022. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters for the period 2016 to 2020 is the third national programme for seven years. Pursuant to Article 41 of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, the state of protection, fundamental objectives, the development of observational, informational, communication, logistics and other systems, the development of preventive activities, the development of capacity and the objective, orientations for education and training, and for the development and research work and the way in which financial and other resources are provided. Special attention shall be paid to the implementation of preventive measures and tasks in accordance with the agreements and procedures of the European Parliament and of the Councils of the Union Civil Protection Mechanisms. It also takes into account the orientations of the UN strategy for a safer world in the 21st century and the solutions contained in the resolution of the national security strategies of the Republic of Slovenia. The sources of threat have not changed significantly over the past period. Hazard stations still represent earthquakes, floods, earth’s and snowy reptiles, strong winds, storms. However, their intensity and dynamics are increasing. This also affects the wider consequences. We are also witnessing a large number of mass traffic accidents. As the greatest achievements of the past period, it would highlight progress in risk assessment and modernisation of national plans, the integrity of action in the event of environmental accidents at sea, in the event of fires in the natural environment and in the event of accidents on motorways and longer tunnels, the adoption of a uniform doctrine of emergency medical assistance in the event of mass accidents, the increase of capacity and the construction of observation networks for timely forecasting and monitoring of accidents, the construction of a key information and communication system infrastructure and a integration system. The national monitoring and information system has been linked to the EU system. Two units of the educational centre in Sežana and Logatco were established. In addition to other training, a comprehensive system for the training of firefighters for the control of internal fires and fires in the natural environment was also laid down, and a selection subject was introduced in primary school against natural and other disasters. Successful actions in all the major disasters we have faced during this period and the rescue assistance we have provided to other countries show that the system has not been reduced in spite of the recession. We estimate that significant progress has been made in the system. The main objectives in the coming period are, in particular, to continue the existing activities of tasks and projects and to co-finance procurement activities, to improve prevention, including the continuation of work in developing risk assessments for individual accidents, the development and upgrading of robust systems for timely forecasting, detection and warning of hazards, the adaptation of the system to modern sources of risk, the integrity of the regulation of rail accident management in the R & D and the HRMP area, including the identification of helioports, the further integration of the capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the expansion of the training system, more exercises for individual types of accidents and awareness-raising and public awareness, the continuation of research and development tasks of IT projects, the multi-purpose use of various technical and other means and equipment, the strengthening of insurance and other systems that promote prevention, the maintenance of an active role in the European Union civil protection mechanism in the region and in international resolution operations. We will continue with proposals for better regulation of the status of voluntary rescue workers, in particular in relation to employers, and with support from organisations for improving the status of their members. Development has shown that there is a need to reorganise or rationalise civil protection structures at all levels by increasing the specialisation of units and services, taking into account threats and new organisational criteria, including certification by international standards. The capacity of the Civil Protection Unit for rapid rescue interventions, for intervention in major disasters in Slovenia and for other countries will be further developed. In training, priority will be given to updating and increasing infrastructure capacity in the Education Centre for Protection, Rescue and Exposures and local integration. And about the funds. Currently, the funds allocated by the municipalities to these facilities amount to about 48 million a year. At country level, these funds amount to just over 30 million a year. Total 0,21 % of GDP. In accordance with Article 42 of that Act, the tasks of the national programme shall be broken down in the annual plan of protection against natural and other disasters and in the programmes and plans of local communities. The funds will be provided through the annual budgets of the State and the municipalities, which are primary contractors of measures to protect against natural and other disasters. We estimate that resources should not be reduced in the future. On the basis of newly manufactured or updated hazard assessments, the criteria for granting a fire tax to municipalities will need to be complemented at an unaltered ratio of 70:30. At national level, existing mechanisms will be maintained, and resources will also be allocated for more demanding and special equipment. We will continue to seek to provide funding for co-financing of projects from the European Union. The resolution was also presented to the mayors and did not have substantive comments on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Defence as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 13th regular meeting, on 2 November 2016, the Defence Committee considered a motion for a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proponent, Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, said that the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters for the period 2016-2022 was the third national programme prepared under the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters for a period of 7 years. The programme is based on an analysis of the situation in the field of disaster protection and pays particular attention to the implementation of prevention measures and tasks, which is also required of us by the decision of the European Parliament and the Council on the Union's civil protection mechanism. The programme also takes into account the basic objectives and orientations of the United Nations strategy for a safer world in the 21st century and the solutions of the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic objectives of the development of protection against natural and other disasters brought by the new national programme are to improve prevention, including the continuation of work in the form of accident-specific risk assessments, the development and upgrading of robust systems for timely forecasting, detection and warning of hazards, the reorganisation of protection, rescue and assistance forces, the adaptation of the system to modern sources of threat, the increased involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the expansion of training systems, the continuation of research and development tasks and projects, the multi-purpose use of various technical and other means and equipment and reinforcements for protection and other systems that primarily promote preventive action. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, from which it concluded that the draft resolution had been examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The opinion of the ZPS was presented by Dr. Sam Divac, who warned that the introductory part of the resolution stated that protection against natural and other disasters was organised and established as a single and comprehensive national security subsystem based on volunteering. Such a record raises a broader question whether the State’s national security subsystem can be based on volunteering? Given that the resolution relates to a period of 7 years, it would be appropriate to link the implementation with the relevant financial resources by means of a resolution of the envisaged programmes. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee considered that the proposal for a resolution on a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters was a document that was a mix of everything that was and was supposed to be. The document shows neither the strategic guidelines nor the objectives we want to achieve with the document. They said that the resolutions would not be supported because they felt that this was primarily a declaration level of a document that merely described the existing situation and added a few wishes. They felt that we should focus and determine whether the resolution was really just a declaration or whether it was a document that we had because it was written in the law or whether we wanted to achieve something with that document. They believed that we should take special reliefs as soon as possible for those employers who have employees of voluntary firefighters. This is important if we want to maintain the trend of operational firefighters, who represent a general rescue service in the protection and rescue system in the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution and adopted them. As amendments were not adopted to the motion for a resolution on the home working body, the Defence Committee proposes that the draft resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mahnic. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Honourable Director, a nice greeting! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the draft resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters from 2016 to 2022. The Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters was adopted 12 years ago to protect people, animals and property, cultural heritage and the environment from natural and other disasters. The resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters that we are dealing with today is already the third national programme prepared under this law. The programme under consideration is based on an analysis of the situation in this area. For example, earthquakes, floods, reptiles, storms, and the like pose a recent threat to the stomach. In recent years we have witnessed an increase in the intensity of weather events and, of course, the consequences of the accidents caused are also more extensive. The basic objectives of developing protection against natural and other disasters brought by the national programme under consideration are to improve prevention. Such behaviour is required by both international documents and the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. This will include developing and upgrading systems for timely forecasting, detection and alerting to threats. Protection, rescue and assistance forces will be reorganised and the involvement of the Slovenian Army will be increased. In addition, the training system will be expanded. The municipalities will also be encouraged to provide their own reserve of protection and rescue equipment in view of the threat, mainly due to natural disasters. In the Desus Group, we would like to draw attention to the great and invaluable value of volunteers in the protection and rescue system, so we are pleased that in the future the status of voluntary rescue workers will be sought more appropriately. The fact is that volunteers in this area are far more than professionals, so for example, out of some 60,000 operational rescue workers, there are fewer than 3,000 professional workers. However, the most voluntary firefighters by category are about 45 000. In the Desus Group, we support efforts to also regulate the normative basis for encouraging those who employ voluntary paramedics. We Slovenians can be proud of having such a rich tradition of volunteering. The fact is that the largest rescue service is represented by voluntary and professional firefighters, and their tasks have expanded significantly throughout all the years of existence in Slovenia and include not only the tasks of putting out fires but also a number of others. For example, between 2009 and 2014, firefighters carried out an average of 14 000 to 21 000 interventions per year, up to 2014. Because of their invaluable value, we must strive to take better care of them in the future. In the Desus Group, we are also pleased that a reform of the Fire Act is being prepared. We also welcome the Ministry's announcement that they will accede to the amendment of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters if circumstances dictate it. We will support the proposed resolution in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! We will support the proposal for a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural disasters, because we believe that it is a good programme, whose basic objective is to properly and effectively direct the planning, coordination and integrated capacities of the country, and therefore horizontally, not only within the Ministry of Defence, which is particularly important for enabling citizens and citizens to respond most effectively and qualitatively in the event of accidents, whatever they may already be. It is particularly important that this is a coherent resolution, from which its fundamental orientations are also reflected, namely the integration and coordination of local communities, which we have 212, which is an extremely difficult task, that priority should be to continue and strengthen education and to establish not only continuation, but also to strengthen and establish appropriate infrastructure, the speciality of the professional work of all those involved in disaster resolution systems and, perhaps most importantly, to further strengthen and develop volunteerism in cases of natural disasters. One of the main advantages of this resolution is that, unlike many others, it is also relevant to analyse what has been done so far. If this has been the case in the past period, special concern has been given to accidents on motorways, the capacity to respond to the spillage of hazardous substances, which has also been consistent with specific water protection priorities, in the coming period, i.e. in the perspective of 2022, the resolution focuses on prevention or response to accidents on rail routes and, of course, on biological, radiological and chemical accidents, which unfortunately is particularly important in the context of the deterioration of the global security situation. Of course, it is crucial for the Social Democrats that the country continues to commit its fundamental orientations to volunteering, in particular to firefighting, which is the largest form of volunteerism organised in Slovenia and significantly strengthens or even constitutes the basis for the proper response of the country not only in the event of fires but also in all natural and other disasters. It is therefore a focus on the ability of voluntary structures to respond to the quality and effectiveness of key support for the specialty of trained professionals and remains our key task to include as many citizens as possible in this system if you want to with some nostalgia, because at least in the case of natural disasters or other accidents nothing should surprise us. It has also shown that we may be more vulnerable and less prepared than we could be, so we welcome the preparation of this resolution by the Ministry of Defence, which pays particular attention to the inclusion and regulation of the status of not only firefighters, but all who participate in the system of protection against natural disasters. If the Slovenian Armed Forces' capacity to cooperate with civil protection and to cooperate in response to natural disasters is further touched upon, we can also find that the Vihra programme means that, in the case of new threats or existing response systems, we have the possibility of calling on fully qualified and fully equipped 750 members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces within 24 hours and additional reinforcements in case of a need for additional response within the next 48 hours. This can, of course, also put the Slovenian system in a position to respond to natural and other disasters in the face of the most organised and swift response, so we will support the Social Democrats' motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the hearing of this document, I will make two observations on the functioning of the protection system and on the Government's stepfather's attitude towards this system. Occasionally, we can hear criticism that our system is not appropriate because it is based on volunteerism, because it is based on self-organization. And the next logical step to follow would be the centralisation of the system and the professionalization of firefighters and rescue workers. These criticisms are sometimes so short-sighted that they take the Slovenian Army as an example. But the Slovenian Army is a textbook example of a professionalized system that doesn't work. According to his own doctrine, he admits that he is unable to defend our countries. Its members literally flee from it, and the permanent composition has declined to fewer than 7,000, of which there are fewer than 3,000 soldiers. If we compare the Slovenian Army's contractual reserve with our voluntary fire companies, it's like a comparison between night and day. The Slovenian Army's contractual reserve has fallen to less than 800 people, with the soldier getting just over 2,000 euros a year for readiness. Well, on the other hand, we have 44,000 volunteer firefighters. And as you know, last December, half of the members of the Slovenian Army's contractual reserve didn't respond to the call. But I've never heard of a volunteer fire force failing in a similar way, or half the mountain rescuers on duty would say, let's just say they don't have time. For reasons of non-motivation, I can't let go of this place. Recently, however, the Swedish authorities have found that they cannot provide sufficient quality personnel with a professional army. In a developed society, there is simply not enough interest in the military profession; the Swedish government is a timely drip, ours will not be possible until 20 years. In the United Left, of course, we do not blame the soldiers here, nor do we condemn them, rarely wants to be the auxiliary force of NATO. And it will be difficult for you to convince the reservists that refugees must leave their jobs for months. What I want to stress here is that the Slovenian Army is by no means a recipe for the protection and rescue sector. I particularly stress this because the resolution speaks of some kind of undeclared rationalisation of civil protection. My second observation concerns the question of whether the Government will provide financial conditions for the functioning of the system. The aim of the resolution is to improve the conditions for the operation of the services, units and other protection structures organised by societies. The government did not provide these funds in the budgets. The Authority devoted significantly less money to protection and rescue than it did in 2015. In particular, it will be in the eyes of how little money is in this budget under the heading of the operation of the protection system; this is the item on which the funding for the co-financing of fire extinguishers and other rescue workers is located. That is why in the United Left we have tabled an amendment to increase these funds, because we think it is absolutely perverse that the Slovenian Army will spend 53% more than this year for NATO operations in 2018, while 9% less than this year's implementation will be available for the operation of the system of protection and rescue. It is obvious that the government here does not have a problem to confuse almost EUR 20 million only for NATO's operation in Latvia, from which, by the way, even Deputy Prime Minister Židan has publicly distanced himself. There is no means to operate a system of protection and resolution, not to mention other emergency services in Slovenia. As regards the specific orientations of this resolution, they are very insurmountable. I have already mentioned that the document speaks of the rationalisation of civil protection being carried out. What rationalisation is supposed to be, it is not explicitly defined. In capitalism, the term rationalisation usually hides lower wages, fewer jobs and worse services. Therefore, we will not support the Socialists of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Dear Minister, dear Members and Members, good afternoon! We have before us a document that deals with our vision or our vision of protecting ourselves from natural disasters. One of the fundamental things highlighted by this document is that Slovenian protection and resolution against natural disasters is based on volunteering. This is an absolute thanks to all volunteer rescuers. This is where Slovenian firefighters, mountain rescuers, cavemen, divers and everyone else I forgot to mention, because they do a lot of work, do important things that this system can even function. And as any of my predecessors have said, it works even better than professional systems. Of course, in New Slovenia we imagine that this resolution is, in particular, a document in which we point out a vision of how we want to develop this system of protection and rescue in the future. In fact, more or less a description of the current situation can be found in the document, describing the projects and tasks that the Government intends to carry out under the current state of affairs. However, we miss the vision for a forward view and here I would like to point out in particular the two shortcomings that we see in New Slovenia in this resolution; one is that it is absolutely under-devoted to this resolution, how to provide better financial resources for the system, and the other is that it still does not resolve the issue of double management. If I make a few comments, I can say the following. With regard to funding, we are very lucky because the matter is based on volunteering, in any other case things would be much worse. But despite the fact that the system is based on volunteering, this country is also obliged to support it through concrete measures. If they have been in the past, however, this has to be acknowledged, the steps taken forward, particularly with regard to regulating the status of firefighters, there are still plenty of opportunities and opportunities for at least one or two more steps forward. What am I talking about? If we have managed to arrange that employers have the opportunity to receive reimbursement in the event of the operation of operational firefighters volunteers, we imagine and want to see the time now when employers would be tax-stimulated to employ operational firefighters, stimulated to a cost-effective extent. When we walk in the field and when we talk to different fire companies, this is one of the many problems faced that even though the employer has an operational firefighter, he is very reluctant to leave the job in case of intervention, despite the fact that the employer can receive a refundable loss of income or income due to the absence of his employee, who is at the same time an operational firefighter and has left for intervention. Because when this person leaves, the whole work process can fall in some companies. This is only an additional reason for improving the tax situation of employers employed by operational firefighters. In addition, in the past, the country has imposed enormous obligations on voluntary organisations and schemes, and more or less financial resources have not followed. If I'm finished with the duality of management. We still have protection and rescue, duality; we have a director of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue and we have a civil protection commander. In New Slovenia, we estimate that this does not contribute to effective and rational management of protection and resolution and that we should urgently introduce one-time management. These two reasons, i.e. financing and still maintaining the duality of governance, are key reasons why we are opposed to this resolution in Novi Slovenija and will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings, distinguished minister, guests, Mr. Minister of Infrastructure, colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction to the Opinion of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre on the Proposal for a Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters for the period 2016-2022, I would like to remind you of a simple fact: there is no payment or penalty in nature, there are only consequences. The resolution on the programme of protection against natural and other disasters is a seven-year general framework for measures aimed at reducing or mitigating the number of natural and other disasters. This time's resolution and thus the programme are strongly focused on preventive activities in the field of natural and other disasters. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we support the preventive orientation of the resolution and the national programme and all relevant activities, taking into account the importance of prevention in amending regulations and acts in all areas to research and education activities. We welcome the fact that the treatment of accidents under the national programme is integrated and that it also includes environmental, industrial and other accidents for which man is responsible by his activity and conduct, as well as the threat of terrorism, various forms of mass violence and other military and non-military sources of threat. Modern sources of threat require a high degree of flexibility and responsiveness of the national system. The motion for a resolution is a comprehensive and detailed document in this regard, which strengthens the organisation of protection against natural and other disasters as a single and comprehensive subsystem of national security of the country under which professional and voluntary resolution structures cooperate in a coordinated manner. As we have already stressed in the context of the treatment of the labour force, the substantive emphasis of this resolution is appropriate, while the practical implementation of the national programme will require the provision of adequate resources at both national and local level. In this place it should be noted that professional and voluntary firefighters are our largest general rescue service and that the Republic of Slovenia is in a group of countries with a long tradition of public fire service. The latter has long been limited not only to intervention in cases of fire, but also to invaluable work for which a clear recognition and thanks are to be given to firefighters. The State and the municipalities are obliged to ensure the appropriate position, conditions and equipment for the operation of firefighters, with particular attention to voluntary firefighting companies and their members. Volunteering is an indispensable element of protection against natural and other disasters in the Republic of Slovenia, for which we must be proud and cherished. In this light, we welcome the Ministry of Defence's announcement that a new Firearms Act should be prepared in order to replace the antiquated provisions of the existing law in many respects. In it we see an opportunity for a broader debate on the situation of volunteers and the necessary measures to strengthen the concerted operation of all forces for the protection, rescue and assistance in the territory of our country and their international engagement. In anticipation of this debate, the proposed text of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in 2016 until 2022 will be supported by the Group of the Parties to the Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting once again! This resolution is a document written only because a document has to be and the content is also appropriate. Although we probably all, Members and Members, including the Government, agree that firefighting in Slovenia is organised at an unsuspectingly high level, as well as equipped, trained, in particular members of both voluntary and professional firefighting companies, we often forget that it is the country that is responsible for ensuring that this equipment and knowledge develops further. It is unreasonable to expect that fire companies and other teams based primarily on volunteering will develop at the same time as the government lowers the average of municipalities; municipalities get less money, but we know how it is to finance municipalities to fire companies. Both the money they spend on equipment, fire companies and hours away from work. The resolution has been written very widely, as we have already pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party at the meeting of the Defence Committee. In fact, it has written practically everything from A to Z, how it will also affect the areas covered by the Ministry of Environment and Space, how it will affect the areas covered by the Ministry of Agriculture. Here again is the chapter on prevention activities, on prevention of natural and other disasters, and again we see that the Government is not following what it wrote in this resolution by adopting budgets for 2017 and 2018, as the money for eliminating the floods that were in 2014 is falling by 4 million. In other counter-flooding items too, money is unfortunately falling, money is in the budget, although it is 200 000 euros, which is not much compared to the 9 billion budget, but it also decreases to protect and rescue on certain sub-items, and it generally increases on some. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have pointed out the importance of resolutions and declarations and have also provided some examples that clearly show that we have a declaration and resolutions in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular that we write something on paper, that it is well read, that it is well heard, that it is also attractive and difficult to deny support at first sight, but when we compare the implementation either with legal and sub-legislative acts, with government regulations and other documents, not least of all concrete acts, but we see that there is a huge gap between what we write in the strategies and what we do in practice then, it is written in this strategy that we will do something completely different. Already in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, and then in the development programme plan until 2021 there is nowhere to be seen, let's say that the Slovenian Army would be equipped with additional equipment, especially in the area of equipment which the Slovenian Armed Forces can then use for protection and rescue purposes. In addition, let me just remind you that one of the three points of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the 2014 elections was that we would also be buying equipment in the Slovenian Army that could be used primarily in the event of natural and other disasters. Because today it is funny when we had a stomach in the Poljanska Valley, the locals were there with motorcycles, and the soldiers were there with two of the usual saw blades, because there is neither equipment nor training for the test or examination of handling with the motor sawmill and so on. In short, all these things, which were written in previous resolutions, are also written in the present resolution. The period of six years from 2016 to 2022 is long, we can say that it is a medium-term strategy, which we fear has been written so widely on the one hand that it will be difficult to achieve all of this, especially since it is also a matter of working with other ministries, and on the other hand it is written that it has no specific objectives. So whatever happens, it can be said that it is in accordance with the resolution. In short, for those reasons, we have decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will not support the resolution, nor will we oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you, everyone. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments were adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a resolution, no amendments could be tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place in full accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 33rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. On the day-to-day agenda, this is to consider the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Development of Transport in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Petr Gasperšić, Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Last July, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. This document deals comprehensively with all areas of the transport system for the first time since independence. These are: roads, railways, maritime, aviation and sustainable mobility. However, this is a general declaration document and we have drawn up a plan at the Ministry of Infrastructure to implement this strategy, a national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia. A national programme setting out more detailed activities, the way in which implementation is carried out, the necessary financial resources, deadlines and instruments to implement the measures set out in the strategy. The national programme provides for stable financing of the transport area, without any major annual fluctuations, which enables us to implement transport projects in a smooth and cost-effective manner. The implementation of the national programme will ensure better quality transport conditions for citizens and citizens and the Slovenian economy, in line with the objectives set. These are: to improve mobility and accessibility, economic supply and transport security in order to reduce energy consumption, the costs of users and operators, as well as environmental burdens. We will also have a positive impact on the economy, construction and related activities and the growth of gross domestic product, which is why Slovenia urgently needs this document. In order to implement the measures, up to 2030, €17 billion is projected to be poor, almost billions of euros per year. Budget resources are good 10 billion and the rest are private investments. Key projects that will be implemented during this period are affected by the restoration of the state road network, the removal of bottlenecks on the rail network, including our project, the priority second track project between Kopro and Divaca, as well as, for example, the Ljubljana railway hub. In summary, by 2030 we will ensure European standards on the core trans-European rail network in Slovenia, implement projects on the third development axis as well as on other development axes, ensure investments in the port of Cyprus and prepare state spatial plans for the three main Slovenian airports. I believe that the level of future transport budgets will follow the dynamics outlined in the national programme. Only in this way will the national programme be implemented. On the basis of the national programme, the Government will also adopt a six-year operational plan to accurately define the implementation of individual projects. As this is an important development document that Slovenia urgently needs, I propose that the National Assembly adopt an upcoming resolution on the national transport development programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister Dr. Peter Gasperšič with the team! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 23rd meeting, 2. 11. 2016 as a parent labour body, the draft resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, added the explanation to the motion for a resolution on behalf of the applicant. He stressed that the Government adopted in July 2015 the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which for the first time deals with the transport system in its entirety. Given that the strategy was prepared at the general level, at the time of its adoption, the Government ordered the competent ministry to draw up an operational plan for its implementation within one year. As a result, a motion for a resolution is drawn up which represents a transition between the overall action of the strategy to specific activities relating to the preparation and implementation, and also sets out the deadlines and the means to which the indicative costs have also been allocated. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Dr. Sam Dijak, stressed that the Legal and Legal Service has made certain comments to certain chapters. He pointed out that the amendment tabled by the coalition groups had adequately addressed this ambiguity. It also states that in the motion for a resolution there are some obvious errors that will be addressed by the Legal and Legislative Service in the final edition. Mr Jernej Verbič, President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, stressed that the Commission supports the motion for a resolution and identifies transport or transport infrastructure activities and investments as well as a more environmentally friendly way forward. In the Commission's view, the adoption of an operational plan for the implementation of the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia is necessary, as this is the only way to achieve our objectives and priorities and activities in the area of transport development. The Commission joins the proposal that the motion for a resolution has a positive impact on transport, economic supply, the environment, construction and gross social product. He stressed the Commission's expectations that less accessible areas will finally be given modern transport connections that have a significant impact on the quality of life and strengthen the development potential of these areas. The Commission also expects that funds for the planned measures will be planned and provided in a realistic or appropriate manner. In the debate, some MEPs referred to the document as a good one, as they believe it continues with the guidelines that were properly defined in the last year's adopted transport development strategy. The view was expressed that the objectives of the motion for a resolution were clearly outlined and very ambitious, with up to € billion in funding for the implementation of projects per year. In this regard, the view was expressed that it was an essential question whether such ambitious objectives could be actually achieved in practice. Some discussers, however, viewed the motion for a resolution as more critical and considered it insufficiently operational. However, the financial structure has also been marked as inadequacy, with the view expressed with regard to the financing of the planned activities that too little emphasis has been placed on the use of European funds and the use of the European Fund mechanism in strategic investments. Among other things, the weakness has been highlighted, in their view, by the fact that, compared to investing in road infrastructure, all other areas are under-focused, with little particular attention being paid to development in the area of secrecy and mobility. With regard to the opinion of the applicant, it is rejected that the motion for a resolution or a proposal for a national programme is insufficiently operational. In their view, the document is similarly structured as all other national programmes and is comparable to similar documents in other countries. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the Parliamentary Groups of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and SD to Chapters 1, 4 and 9 and to Annex 2 — Rail transport. On the basis of Article 171 and the reasonable application of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello again! The updated motion for a resolution on the national transport development programme by 2030 is, in fact, in the function of an operational plan that replaces or complements adequately under one strategic document, both the scope and vision of the country in regulating transport infrastructure in the broadest sense, while at the same time entailing the specificisation of the objectives and policies that we have set ourselves as a country in the past, as well as in this mandate. Of course, as with any strategic document, it can be found that the implementation of the plans and objectives depends significantly on the available funding, while it can also be seen from the existing document that the predictability of investment and regulation in the field of maritime, aviation, rail transport is significantly higher than, for example, in the regulation and financing of infrastructure in the road network, where also because of the scale of this network, a significantly higher level of predictability is not actually possible. The key issue that this programme partially addresses is how this less predictable part of the road network can be financed and regulated, especially through the prism of finding the right relationship between state and municipal roads. What is a special advantage of this programme is that, despite the fact that it is an important infrastructure strategy, it is not only a question of asphalting and laying tracks, but also an infrastructure that gives the right content, that is, internalising some of the programme objectives that we have set ourselves both as a country and as a community of which we are part, i.e. the European Union, but also as a global one. I am, of course, talking about the issue of sustainable mobility, the issue of sustainable development and, last but not least, the link to the last Paris Agreement, which also speaks in an important part about how, through transport regulation, infrastructure as well, to reduce environmental burdens. It is particularly important here that both public passenger transport and the priority regulation of cycling routes be given priority and that alternative modes of transport as well as resources be addressed and opened, which will be particularly important in the future if we look at the programme by 2030. In our operational work, the Social Democrats particularly welcome the six-year solid plan, which at the same time gives hope that this will not be one of the programmes of a government that will need to be recast as soon as the new government comes, but that it is also, in an operational sense, a strategic framework for six-year regulation, which means, and which is good, also ad hoc and ad hoc regulation of something, which is extremely essential for the country. However, regardless of the programme, the fear that such a centralised programme also means the possibility that – since projects will be selected on a professional basis – there may be a hidden centralisation, which we are already reminding the Social Democrats. It is necessary to develop not only the main corridors, but also, of course, the peripheral parts, so as to allow for a balanced and sustainable development of the whole country. In conclusion, if I touch on the issue of financing, it is either petrol, infrastructure or whatever we call this cent, of course, that is a key issue for the implementation of this programme, but in the discussions on how to ensure this, we also need to make an appropriate distinction between road and rail financing issues. In our opinion, especially during the last crisis, roads have been heavily undernourished, especially in the municipality, which, in essential work, especially in remote areas, makes it impossible for coherent regional development. To the conclusion. The key projects that we see remain: the third development axis, both the north and south legs, the second track, the northern coastal bypass, the bypass around the Slovenian Bistrica and some other key projects, which need to connect mainly industrial centres and economic potential with international corridors, because infrastructure needs to be viewed not only as beta and track, but mainly as creating a positive economic environment of opportunity for development. The Social Democrats will support the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. When the Government adopted the Transport Development Strategy, it decided that the Ministry of Infrastructure should draw up an operational plan for the implementation of the strategy within one year. The deadline for this plan was 29 July of this year. Well, two months after that date, they adopted the resolution under consideration, which is supposed to be a prerequisite for them then to adopt an operational plan. Given the delay, we would expect a comprehensive and detailed transport development programme, but we got exactly the opposite. The resolution consists of 46 pages without annexes, of which the contents are 17 pages, and then about half of these 17 pages meet with the expected finances. The resolution is undoubtedly a step backwards compared to the currently in place transport programmes, which have been poorly implemented. The national transport development programme under consideration clearly favours the development of road transport. Of the 12 billion investments in infrastructure, nearly two thirds will be devoted to investment in road infrastructure, more than half of which will go back to highway investment. In this light, the resolution constitutes a further fetishisation of road transport by passenger car. Investments in sustainable mobility comprise less than 2 per cent of the funds envisaged and the explanation of investments is long on the side. It is clear that this aspect of transport development is given much less attention than it should. The part that talks about water transport is more than a summary of the port development programme prepared by Luka Koper. Some money will also be devoted to exploring the possibility of introducing inland waterways, especially on the Sava River between Brežice and Croatia. This raises the question of economic eligibility as well as the environmental acceptability of such a measure. With regard to the development of air transport, the proposal for a resolution essentially constitutes a definitive capitulation of the country before private capital. It is acknowledged that the development of international air transport has become a matter for private owners of privatised airports. The development of air transport is thus limited by the State to the preparation of State spatial plans that would be most appropriate to the planned development of private airports. The development of railway infrastructure has been ours since Peter Gasperšić's performance as Minister of History. Most of the investments in rail infrastructure, as proposed, include investments in a public-private partnership to finance the construction of a second track. In this regard, the resolution provides in particular for the dynamics of its implementation. Minister Gasperšič attached his mandate to the start of the second track construction in 2017. The Annex on dynamics and projects accompanying this resolution shows that the implementation work on the second track project will start in 2018. At the same time, the resolution under consideration at this meeting also addresses the draft amending budget for 2017. It makes it very clear that the construction of the second track, due to the envisaged funding in the form of a public-private partnership, will not start until 2019. At one meeting, the National Assembly will therefore consider two documents which place on the lie the promise of Minister Gasperšič to start construction in 2017. These are documents that were adopted at the Government practically at the same time that these promises were made. The promises the Minister has committed to his mandate. For all of this, we will vote against the proposed resolution in the United Left. Since I still have a bit of time left, allow me to accept some very poorly written papers in the National Assembly about our traffic, about roads, about maritime strategies, about railways, this morning the train from Škofja Loka to Ljubljana was 40 minutes late. And that's no exception. Delays on our railway tracks are happening and happening regularly. Today I missed the morning meeting of the United Left Group due to the 40-minute delay of the train from Škofja Loka to Ljubljana. So, my dears, we can accept these and other papers here, but we will have to take action. Slovenian Railways make people crazy because of regular train delays. Justifiably. Let's fix this, let's vent, let's take it where it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Good day, Messengers and Messengers! Delaying trains is not the only problem. The problem is also a long period of driving, for example, from the White landscape to Ljubljana, the duration of driving by train is approximately once more longer than by car. In such moments and in such cases, when our public infrastructure part is developed in a way such as this, it is not expected that people will benefit more from such public means of transport. Even the roads are not in the most beautiful condition, the vast majority of Slovenian roads are torn, damaged to the extent that they are dangerous to users. If, in addition to rail and road transport, we add air traffic and the state of our airports, then we see that the situation, with the exception of Brno, is relatively clave and sad. In the case of a portor airport, it is not possible to adopt or adopt even a spatial act for a very long time which would allow the expansion and further development of this airport. Thus today we have before us the Resolution on National Transport Development, which is supposed to be an operational plan for the implementation of the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the Government last year and replaces the current individual resolutions or national programmes. For the next 14 years, it is thus intended to represent a set of concrete activities, including the deadlines and operators of individual activities. Everything great and beautiful, if not for a very important part from here on out, very clear guidance or clear prediction as to how and how funds will be provided for all that is written in this document. While the government argues that the national programme is ambitious in terms of investment and maintenance and the overall functioning of the transport system, it provides for investments of around €70 million per year and – one part needs to be added again – foresees an investment of private investors on average of €300 million per year; we hope that this is not an account without a tavern. In Novi Slovenija we are held back to the proposed content, because at this point we can only talk about planned activities and indicative amounts. It is much easier to accept these documents, and it is much harder to provide money for them. In a way, this resolution and these documents remind me of very similar documents, plans for development programmes in the military or in the field of defence, where we have written down in the documents a number of our desires, what we want and how things should be taken and done, but again the government has forgotten the key part – to provide the necessary finances for these matters. It seems to us that the story can be repeated in this transport document as well. Many questions are asked. One of them is certainly how we will achieve our objectives, but from experience we know that the national transport programmes currently in place for each transport area are far from unrealistic and that their implementation has reached less than a third of what is planned. We are also fully thinking about the expected investments in private capital. Minister Gasperšič is known for being able to change his position relatively quickly and adapt to current political arithmetic, so it is clear that it is difficult to take his statements seriously, at least as far as the second track is concerned, but, nevertheless, it is clear that private capital investment is expected if private capital will also benefit from this, no one will invest in the loss. I could point out the third development axis, which we have been paving for a very long time and yet do not see any serious prospects to end in due time. Therefore, it is clear from all the above that we cannot support the said document in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the Government in 2015, indicated strategic guidance in determining future measures in the field of road, rail, air and maritime transport, including public passenger transport or measures to ensure sustainable mobility. This strategy also pursued two main objectives in the field of road transport: to develop professional bases for the operational drawdown of European funds and to select appropriate priorities in this area. Above all, the strategy required the Ministry of Infrastructure to draw up a resolution on the national transport development programme and the operational plan below, where concrete plans will be made for the implementation of the objectives set and the transport development strategy. In this way, the resolution under consideration today is a transition between the general measures taken from the strategy to concrete activities in preparation and implementation. For the purpose of more detailed planning for the implementation of the activity, the document provides that the Government shall adopt a six-year rolling stock plan for investment in transport infrastructure each year. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the resolution is ambitious and aimed both at optimising transit traffic and at local users. We are aware that ensuring the mobility of the population is one of the most important areas, as it enables people to access education, the labour market, social, health, cultural, sports and other services, and ensures the smooth care of the population. In Slovenia we are facing a relatively large spread of population, which requires good organisation and special attention in the planning of road infrastructure. Therefore, the objective of economic development, migration and knowledge in all major regional or economic centres in Slovenia must be pursued, while also improving transport safety and flow, as we know that some parts of Slovenia are more subject to the outflow of personnel, daily migration and increased emigration due to poor transport links. It is precisely because of the above that it is all the more important that we do our utmost to make a successful use of European funds. We are aware of positive developments in the field during this term. After 2010, for the first time this year, the negative trend of investment in road infrastructure and investment road maintenance was reversed. Sufficient means are provided to halt further deterioration after years of underinvestment and, in particular, to set out a clear vision of how to deal with existing infrastructure and how to develop it further. With the adoption of the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme by 2030, we are on track to create transport links that will also contribute to the development of other areas. This is a comprehensive approach to transport development, which can provide greater synergies in achieving the objectives of the country's transport and spatial policy, as well as other policies affected by transport, that is, the environment, or that is the key – the economy. That is why we support the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme by 2030 in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a motion for a resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia by 2030. In view of the fact that this is a resolution, or a document whose competence is almost 15 years old, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would expect a document that is clear and transparent, with clear objectives, deadlines and, above all, financial design in specific areas or projects, and we have received a document written in unclear, inconclusive and opaque terms. This is how the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly concludes in its opinion, thus identifying the infrastructure and space experts and civil initiatives that have been or have been organised precisely because of the poor policy of the State in the areas covered by the resolution. One gets the impression that it is a document file of different authors who unfortunately did not sit at the same table and write texts according to the same assumptions and starting points. Thus, in the view of our Group of Members, a set of wishes with a lack of clearly defined financial structure in particular areas, including deadlines and carriers, is not sufficiently clearly defined. Regarding the development of transport in the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Infrastructure has written and proposed to the Government a series of documents, resolutions, strategies, operational plans and so on. One document overwhelms the other, is an intermediate article between the strategy and the operational plan, all opaque, unrelated; in short, unclear. In this pile of documents, you can't find a person slowly anymore. While the papers are being written, our state roads are failing. In the Road Infrastructure chapter of today's resolution, we can read on page 5: "The analysis in the strategy has shown that the condition of the vehicles is deteriorating, so there is practically half of the network in very poor condition between state roads. In 2011, there were very poor sections of the circus 40 per cent, and in 2013 the number rose to the circus 50 per cent, even in 2015 the situation is similar, says 50 per cent of the vehicles in poor condition." Railway infrastructure is outdated and not suitable for higher-speed trains, so that new investments, which are not or are minimal, are not even spoken of. The development of Luka Koper, which is the only Slovenian international cargo port – the applicant writes: "The main investment in infrastructure is carried out by a concessionaire in Kore port for international transport Luka Koper, d. d. "The same applies to the area of air transport where the State envisages that "the main investment in airport infrastructure by the concessionaire will be consistent with its strategic and financial plans." The Slovenian economy is far from the most important logistics corridor leading from North Adriatic ports to destinations in Eastern, Central and Western Europe. We should be aware that this logistics corridor of Slovenia has enabled economic development and a standard of living comparable to those of neighbouring countries. Again, we are in the construction of the second track of Koper-Divač, which is foreseen by the resolution between 2018 and 2025. The number of discussions on how important it is to build a second track is infinite, and the conclusions of all are clear, and the development of Luke Koper will be stopped if there is no other track. On the 31st page of the resolution, we can read: "For the investment of the second track of Divac-Koper it is envisaged to co-finance the project with private capital – the table shows the investment in the public-private partnership line – or the possible state co-financing of this project and the amount of it will depend on the results of the detailed model of the public-private partnership. The Ministry of Infrastructure is also carrying out activities to acquire EU funds for the investment of the second track project Divača-Koper." A lot has been said about this, too. This was the subject of a public-private partnership consultation in the State Council, which pointed out that public-private partnership is not a real alternative, as it would be only a private profit and a high cost of the state to guarantee private investors for the payment of their income. In the SDS Group, we believe that the Ministry's approach to such an important project as the second track of Divača-Koper for the Slovenian economy is unrealised and does not give hope that it will ever be realized. In the resolution, the Ministry is talking about possible state co-financing and that the level of state co-financing will depend on the results of a detailed model of public-private partnership. In the SDS Group, we therefore ask the Minister: Where does the EUR 200 million provided for the new 2DKK company belong? If this is not state funding – then what is it? Who's going to be a private partner? What's the timer? What will be the obligations of the State, i.e. taxpayers, in the case of a public-private partnership? And since everything starts and ends with money, we would expect the resolution to be much more concrete, as far as finance is concerned, but it is not because, throughout the strategy, funding-related phrases are made with words, possible funding, funding assessment, the financial framework will be determined when an individual study is prepared, project documentation and so on. This, of course, does not give much hope that the planned projects will also be implemented within the deadlines foreseen for them. We are also interested in how much of the funding will be obtained from European funds for projects under the Resolution of Slovenia. Given that almost half of the current financial perspective 2014-2020 is behind us, it is now the first moment for the Ministry of Infrastructure to tell us exactly where we are by drawing on the resources for which we are running infrastructure projects and what are the prospects for co-financing these projects. Because of everything that is said in the SDS Group, we believe that the resolution is useless, so we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! Last July, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which is a general document and the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme is prepared as an operational plan for the implementation of the Strategy. The resolution thus covers the area of roads, railways, aviation, maritime and public passenger transport. It is divided into two periods from 2016 to 2022 and from 2022 to 2030. The deadlines and operators of individual activities and indicative costs are defined, which means that the values for most activities are assessed. Once studies and project documentation have been prepared for specific projects, the costs will be detailed. Of course, the time and manner in which certain projects are implemented depends on the budget available. The implementation of all the activities contained in the resolution will require a little less than €17 billion by 2030, of which about €10 billion should go from the budget, the remaining resources should be contributed by the municipalities, Dars, Luka Koper, and some will be drawn from European funds. In the Desus Group, we support the motion for a resolution, because we believe that its adoption is necessary, because it is the only way to achieve the objectives set in the field of transport. Of course, we all expect the resolution to have a positive impact not only on transport and on improving transport security, but also on the economy and the environment. In our Group of Members, we are pleased that the planned activities are not only linked to investments in infrastructure, but also to measures to achieve so-called sustainable mobility, such as a subsidy for the use of public passenger transport, a single ticket, a uniform timetable, the development of a bicycle network and so on. There are already positive responses to the introduction of a single ticket for students and students in the framework of the Integrated Public Passenger Transport project. This single ticket is subsidised by the State, which means that families with schooling children are saved a great deal of financial burden. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the resolution also covers most of the problems the Ministry of Infrastructure will have to face and we will all face fairly together. For example, modern transport connections will need to be arranged for areas that are longer less accessible. Here I am talking about Koroška, White Krajina, Posoča, as well as a few provinces in central Slovenia, such as Posavje and Zasavje. There will be a lot of talk about this in the future, Minister-respected, regarding the course of the third development axis through the central part, through Zasavje. In order to prevent further destruction of Slovenian roads, transit freight transport must be diverted to the railway. It would also be necessary to increase the number of trains in order to unload our roads, mainly during the tourist season. One of the very important sustainable mobility projects is the creation of a cycling network, mainly in terms of daily migration and tourism. Of course, I could still describe what we see as a priority in our parliamentary group in the area of transport development, but according to our assessment, the motion for a resolution has covered virtually everything we think is important. Therefore, as I have already said, we will unitedly support the motion for a resolution in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be held in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting within a good half-hour of the vote. I hereby terminate this agenda item, as well as the 24th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.05 p.m. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Dear Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 17, 32, 33, 36, 35, 37, 22, 23, 39, 25, 26, 30, 31, 21 and 24 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. 11. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 1 under number one. We are voting on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1 below. 76 Members and Members were present and 55 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2(2). The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 21 and 22. If this amendment is not accepted, these amendments shall become irrelevant. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become to the same Article under number two irrelevant and shall be accompanied by the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 22. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	On behalf of Member Danil Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	Okay, but first, let me ask you, is there any other explanation on behalf of the delegation? [[It's not.]] Then an explanation of the voice in a personal name, as you said, is given by Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	President, thank you for your word. I mentioned earlier that we are talking about an important law, the Law on Forests, and that we have recently entered water as a natural resource into the constitution. I think this law has a similar weight because it talks about the Forest Act, which is our second largest natural resource. In this regard, I will support the amendment to Article 2, in particular because the good content of the law on the management of state forests is also included in this law and offers opportunities for the establishment of forest forest chains also for private forests, for owners who have private forests, this means that we have also introduced good content in the forest management law, which would allow forest chains to be established and the opening of new green jobs. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	Once again, we are deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group – sorry, but now I am confused – of SMC, Desus and SD Group 2 to Article 2, and I have said which amendments then become irrelevant or which ones are connected. Okay? We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 46 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2 to Article 2 has been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to the same Article under Article 2 has become irrelevant. It is also associated with the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 22. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 4 and 18. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Articles 4 and 18 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer under Article 1 to 4 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 4 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 24. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14 under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD groups shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 14 under number two. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer under Article 1 to Article 18 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 18 under number two. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 17. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 21. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 22 under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant under number two. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 of Article 2 became irrelevant due to the amendment adopted by SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 22 also became irrelevant. This concludes the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 14, 18, 21 and 22 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in the second reading made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you, President, for your word. In view of how the vote on individual amendments has taken place, in particular on the amendments of the SDS Group of Members, we predict that we will vote against the law. Despite the fact that the law has two very important articles, which, two years later, try to solve the problem of the rabidadar, and they are the only two articles which are the reason for us to adopt this law by emergency procedure, there are quite a few open issues that we have not cleared up through the second hearing and also through consideration here in plenary. However, our opinion remains an open issue of property rights or free entry, trespassing and access to private forests. We also disagree with the strong promises that the Ministry continues to make in this law. In our view, however, there is a key reason why we will not support the law, the so-called carrier, or the new bookkeeping charter. In the SDS Group, we still believe that sufficient decisions of the Institute for Forests would be the document that would give forest forest ranges sufficient traceability when it comes to other or third parties. We have also tabled an amendment so that the Minister can change this decision to have only one document in this area, but this government has decided, secondly, to be working on a new administration in the field of forests. In 2013, a very similar coalition adopted so-called carriers when officials at the Ministry of Agriculture provided their kindergarten or the reason for their existence, and in the SDS we always opposed this law and these carriers. After we proposed a law this September to de facto abolish carriers, the government opposed it and said it would support and propose some new changes. At that time, the government promised that it would be necessary to shut down the transporters for the removal of timber from the forest. But this coalition did so by changing the term of the carrier into a bookkeeping charter and making it a bit editorial, but we still have quite a few problems inside the woods. First time. This law is without prejudice to the traceability of forest wood varieties from the Slovenian State Forests. In short, private forest owners are in a worse position than state forests. Through the adoption of this law and these amendments, the desire of the competent minister for greater bureaucracy of farmers, after greater criminalisation of farmers, and not least, this law is one of the new extensions that want to renationalise Slovenian private forests. That is why we will oppose him in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. We will support this law in our parliamentary group. Two reasons are necessary, i.e. the fight against the Lubadar and the implementation of the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which enters into force with 1. 1. and for which we need to determine more precisely the growth coefficient. However, as far as carriers are concerned, let me say again at this point that they are de facto terminated, the carriers are no longer, not a name. The documents you have to have at the time of transport are the documents required by the rest of the legislation, these are the supplies and so on. If you're trying to sell something legally to someone, it's going over the papers, otherwise it's not going to work. While small farmers can transport without any means of transport under this law, they need only a cut decision, which is necessary anyway. Therefore, it is not a name matter, it is a de facto fact that the carrier is being removed and a declaration is being introduced in the event that two natural persons are engaged in business with each other, because otherwise you cannot guarantee this traceability. So in our Member State, once again, we support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. Then explain to the voice in his own name Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you, President for your word. I will not support this marriage, because if you're saving the sanitary section, you should have accepted it two years ago, now it's too late, the skull went too far, next year's problems will be even bigger than they were this year. If you wanted to stop the carrier, you could have done it a long time ago, as it was originally accepted, because you could simply say, now the delivery is what we have always proposed in the opposition, and all the contents would have been on the delivery machine, and everyone would know what it is. Now you've given some accounting document such a strange name that doesn't fit anywhere. That's why I won't support this marriage. There are some good things involved, but I expect you to bring the Forest Act to the bench as soon as possible, so that you can save all those anomalies that are still in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters between 2016 and 2022. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a resolution, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are therefore moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2030. As no amendments have been tabled to the resolution's supplementary proposal, we are moving on to a full decision on the resolution's complementary proposal. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. On behalf of the Member or on his own? My own. On behalf of the Member of Parliament first. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. This is a comprehensive approach to transport development and we will therefore support the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme by 2030 in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. I will not support the motion for a resolution on the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the reason that the resolution also contains a public-private partnership relating to the construction of a second track, which means that in this resolution we are taking a decision on the basis of which the share in Luka Koper will be sold, because it is clear that no private partner with his own resources can build a second track without receiving a subsidy from the State to cover the difference or to obtain shares in Luka Koper. And as the Hungarians have also presented, they are willing to build a second track, but provided they get a share in Luka Koper, provided that they also take over transports along the railways, along Slovenian railways from Luka Koper, and provided that their companies build a second track. So, a very clear indicator that a private partner of this track can't build. So why adopt a resolution allowing only a private partner to actually exhaust the country and actually impoverish the country with it? If we also look at our Rules of Procedure, by resolution, the National Assembly assesses the situation, sets out policies and adopts national programmes. Is it really in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia to sell Luka Koper? I don't think so. I will therefore vote against this resolution. I am also convinced that, for example, in the Austrian Parliament, Hungarian or Croatian, such a resolution would be welcome to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I must be critical of this resolution myself, and if you allow me, I will quote only certain aspects of this resolution on page 32, and I will not go into everything else. The third indent is very important, which says: “Finish the preparation of the funding model with the possibility of involving the public-private partnership, the possible conclusion of the second-track partnership and the investment to be carried out.” With all due respect for everything written, I have personal concerns, and it is very difficult for me to confirm in such a document a commitment as it is here. In the light of the facts that are known, let's say only 27 kilometers would be given to a public-private company. Given the literature that exists and is very clear that the public-private partnership does not bring any kind of relationship, I think that apart from the subway in London this public-private partnership has not shown this. However, I would like it to be written here that the Ministry will seek to find a model of funding that corresponds to our country, not to the general or to an explicit public-private partnership. I would also like this resolution to be added in this direction and to see that it is not only a public-private partnership that is not the only alternative. I'm sorry, I can't confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Explanation of the voice in his name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will not support the proposed resolution. The first reason is definitely the second track. This resolution provides for a model of a public-private partnership which will in any event lead to the privatisation of Luka Koper; this is not necessary, so the public means of the second line of Divac-Koper cannot be withdrawn. Further, the entire document is heavily shababiser written and is not nearly a comprehensive solution. It contains 46 pages, without annexes, of which only 17 pages are of content, and within this 17 pages are half of some tables of financial cuts. Furthermore, the resolution agrees with airport transport, international air transport as a matter of private owners of privatised airports and does not raise any questions. In order to develop transport or invest in infrastructure, only 12 billion of which are only 2 per cent of these envisaged means for sustainable mobility, and the explanation of these 2 per cent is a poor half. At the same time, two-thirds of this 12-billion-dollar amount is allocated to the construction of roads, and more than that to investment in motorways, while our railway infrastructure is generally heavily undernourished. Today’s train from Škofje Loka to Ljubljana was 40 minutes late, and this was not an exceptional case. Such stories happen on a regular basis, and what do we want to do with transport? Kicks with a shovel more money into the freeway! In short, against this resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you, President. This document shows one clear thing that can now be used by Minister Gasperšič, and this is some duality between statements and actual action. Since the time of interpolation, which was more or less connected to the second track, we have started to listen to the story of how it is now being worked out that Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways would start participating in this project and help build a second track. This should, of course, be at odds with the public-private partnership in all logical considerations. It is two companies owned by the majority state and it is no longer a form of public-private partnership, but a project cooperation of state-owned companies. We are now adopting a resolution that speaks again about how the public-private partnership is the model that should be followed and implemented. This does not say anything other than what we have been saying in the United Left; therefore, on the priority list of Minister Gasperšić there is a plan which means the privatisation of railways, this has happened with the amendment of the Law on Slovenian Railways and, on the other hand, at least partly the privatisation of the port of Koper. And the documents it brings, from the budget to the laws submitted by its ministry to this resolution, clearly speak of the first thing, the priority thing of privatisation: not only Luke Koper and the management of railway connections, but also the airports and so on. In short, this document, of course, once again, clearly speaks about what the main objectives are, what is the master plan, about the second track and Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways, so I will not support it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 36th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft Decision on consent to the Programme of Work and the 2017 Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly agrees to the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2017 of 15. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 35th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the Decision on Consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d. d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., the Modre Insurance Works, d.d., D. S. U., the Management and Consulting Society, d. o. o., and the Special Companies for Business Consulting, d.d. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Decision on Consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d. d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., the Modre Insurance Office, d.d., D.S. U., the Management and Consulting Society, d. o. o., and the Special Companies for Business Consulting, d.d., is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 70 votes for them, and no one was against them. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The procedure for dealing with the proposal is that I am putting an end to this. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultative referendum on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part – CETA is being held. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you again, President. The CETA Agreement has certainly raised a great deal of dust from the time of the conclusion of its negotiations to the signing. The exclusive case was the response of the Parliament of Vallon, the Government of Vallon, to its signature. The fact is that this agreement remains a kind of unknown. However, those studies, which have been carried out, have been conducted in dozens, whether ordered by the European Commission, our governments, or by NGOs, or by some other institutions, have shown something — that the positive effects will not be, in fact, not, but, to a large extent, we can expect negative effects due to such an agreement. The fact is, therefore, that this agreement is, in the first place, an unknown with a high potential for harm. Although the government has signed this agreement, the fact is that there is still ratification before us when the law comes into the National Assembly. The fact is, too, that a large number of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, as well as Europe, are opposed to such agreements, as well as to the CETA Agreement. In Slovenia, even about half of the respondents were asked. In the United Left, we have proposed a call for an advisory referendum, because this is the only form we can use right now, so that we can do what we should do right now. During the 2014 pre-election campaign, the parties were not defined for these agreements, and therefore we claim that they do not even have the mandate to take such important decisions as the signing and adoption of such an agreement, particularly because they will touch every citizen and citizen or resident of that country. So, at this point, if we want to preserve democracy and democratic procedures in this country, of course it is right to give a voice to the people. To give voice to the people, because what will be the greatest impact of such agreements in the field of the environment, in the field of nutrition, in the field of public services and, of course, in the field of labour rights will be felt. We are proposing this referendum, which is why, of course, we will also support it. But this is a question that is a question that we all cannot simply take this responsibility to decide for ourselves, but it is only right to give the voice of the people in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you, President. We will object to the proposal for a consultative referendum on the Comprehensive Economic Agreement between Canada and the European Union, so-called CETA, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. We believe that this agreement, or this proposal to call for an advisory referendum, is premature, as we have repeatedly stressed. The consultation referendum will not have a direct impact on decision-making in the National Assembly, because it is consultative and will only bring an additional 4 million costs through the implementation of this non-binding referendum. As regards ratification itself in the National Assembly, however, it is enshrined in Article 3a of the Constitution and in Article 3a of the Constitution we can also find a call for a binding referendum which Members and Members will then be able to call. That is why, once again, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	We're voting. I'm hanging up. I didn't see it. [[…]] Explanation of the vote in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. The CETA agreement cannot be decided by the Brussels technocrats, nor by the Government or the coalition, which are subjected to pressure from stronger and international capital each time. CETI can only be decided by the people, so of course I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The CETA agreement is either a good thing or a bad thing, depending on who you ask. If you ask for authority, CETA is a good thing for them, because in the last instance it brings them prestige in international communication with Brussels bureaucrats and partners on the other side of the Atlantic and so on. If we ask the agency of international capital, CETA is a good thing for them, because they can circumvent the environmental, social, labour and other advanced restrictions that apply in European countries, even to us, in order to make more profits on the back of working people. However, if you ask the majority of the population in this country, working classes, farmers, CETA in terms of their interests is a common national treachery. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Explanation of the vote in its own name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. The CETA agreement establishes environmental, food standards, the social state and labour rights, as well as sovereignty, as far as we have left. Of course, the possibility of a consultation referendum and the results will not be binding, but such a decision has great symbolic weight and great political power. For research shows that the people are convincingly opposed to the CETA agreement, as well as that they are not well informed about them. However, the provision on temporary use will not require a vote in the European Parliament or a vote in the national parliaments, and therefore a vote in favour of mixed competence is more or less sand in the eyes. Unfortunately, our government has overtaken the positions already adopted. It agreed to sign an agreement containing a disputed and harmful ICS mechanism, although Cerar himself claimed that it was harmful and that it would not be in the agreement. She also voted in favour of an agreement that is probably contrary to European Union law itself. For tomorrow, the European Parliament is voting on a resolution that could call for CETA to be judged by the Court of Justice of the European Union. If this resolution receives support in the European Parliament, this would mean that the European Parliament will not decide CETI at all until the formal decision of the Court. In short, I support the referendum and I will give my vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 64. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We will support this law, as we did on the committee, and that was our announcement when we discussed it at the plenary session of the National Assembly. However, the law brings on one side what is necessary at this time. This is more dignity, more rights in the event of the death of police officers, who we have witnessed to more recently than ever. Secondly, the law brings some other important improvements, and in particular the law implements what has been achieved in strike negotiations and in the termination agreement. The minister did not say what I was going to say; for I wrote on one of my blogs that the police strike was completed by another Janša government. To a large extent this is true, we introduced into the law in 2013 a provision whereby the future education of most police officers will take place in such a way that they will have a majority, I stress, higher education as a basic education for carrying out a police profession. Only a small part of the police will hold a high school education in the future. This is, of course, the key element that somehow enabled the government to offer, because it actually had to offer, if we are direct, higher-paying police after some successful, after some time delay, and this will of course happen. That's why I think it's right for us to say this, because perhaps the minister has little difficulty praising some of his predecessor and some previous government, but the public must know that. However, it is right to put a police officer’s profession at a higher level of education, because, last of all, I made quite a comparison, see if in kindergarten we have a teacher with a college or a high professional education, and we know what they are doing — without, I will say, this profession in any way demeaning — it must be said that every citizen deserves to have his traffic accident, which can be the worst kind of crime, if of course someone is dead, treated by a person with a higher school. However, I think it is right that this step is taken further and that the law is in force and that it does, however, allow some more rights for police officers in their daily work as well as working in the most critical situations. We support the law, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	We, too, clearly join in adopting this law. The fact is that this minister, this government, in the final stage as well as the SMC, has fulfilled its part of the promise concerning the police. It must be made clear that the police have been largely neglected by these years for such and other reasons. As my predecessor, Dr. Gorenak, has said, I will say, spending in terms of options and resources and with this law in fact, as my predecessor Dr. Gorenak has mentioned, has also been given to police officers, as far as labour, social and other rights are concerned, some additional plus, as has already been mentioned, has been taken into account. So I think that this move by the Minister and the Government against the police has been carried out correctly, and here too was a commitment under some responsible policy to the police and thus to the security of the people themselves in our country. It is clear that such matters need only be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 75 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 22. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 39th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigations in respect of Factor Banka, d. d., Probanka, d.d., and Banka Slovenije. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the interim report on pages 311 to 328 and on pages 43 to 230. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that, in any possible explanation, you do not provide information from an additional interim report, which is marked by the degree of bank secrecy under Article 125 of the Banking Act and is therefore not available to the public. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Dr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Before the Slovenian Democratic Party, or as soon as the Slovenian Democratic Party has submitted a request or proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission, we have heard that it is not worth doing, that there will be nothing out of this anyway. When the National Assembly, with a large majority, is 68 votes in favour of the establishment of this commission of inquiry, I myself have listened from different sides so that we will not know that we will not get the documents anyway, that if we do, we will not discover anything and that nothing will change. Today's agenda is to vote on a partial report or interim report. If the support is pin or half, nothing will change, as this will send the National Assembly to the Slovenian public and to those authorities who have to deal primarily with the pursuit of banking crime, stinging or half signal. However, if we support this report today with a large majority, most of those who will continue to say that nothing will change, especially the bankers. But we're going to question you on the investigative committee anyway. On the issue of supporting this report, it is important to bear in mind that we are talking about five billion bank holes. 5 billion concerns every citizen, 2 000 500 euros per capita and these citizens are both in opposition and in coalition. Therefore, because we have so much national economic damage, in our view these decisions are not a matter of coalition and opposition, but are a question of symbolic importance that we will send to the Slovenian public and to those who decide on further action. The report received the unanimous support of all those who actively participated in the preparation of this report, and this is a clear signal to the National Assembly. And now someone has to say when enough is enough and that's enough. The Slovenian Democratic Party will do so today in a unified and unanimous manner to support this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Parties of the modern centre of mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the SMC Party, we are convinced that the essential findings are accurate and credible in summarising what the Commission of Inquiry found in its work, both at the hearing of 36 witnesses and at the examination and analysis of a number of documents. In doing so, let me point out what is most important to us, that the administrations and supervisory councils in those banks have acted in contravention of the professional prudence of the management or supervision of bank management and that, of course, this should have been, or in some part, been, clear to the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia, who did not act in a timely and sufficient manner. Therefore, the proposed essential findings will be supported in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Right now, I can already point out that we will also support the proposed decision in five points. In doing so, we believe that what is most important to us is what is referred to in point 2, namely the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime, which is already enshrined in the coalition agreement, and the proposal for the Commission to forward an interim report to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and to the National Investigation Office as a statement of the suspicions of the internal banking crime service. In my work on the Commission, I can confirm that the Commission of Inquiry never intended to play the role of law enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities, but only in that constitutionally limited part did it act as a judicial authority in examining the material collected and in questioning witnesses. Therefore, it is most important that law enforcement authorities do their job. A specialised court may make a significant contribution to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the report not only for the reason that we have found a whole range of inconsistencies and irregularities in our business in this case, although two banks, Factor Bank and Probanks, are also actually opening up very many questions about the operation of the central regulator, namely the Bank of Slovenia, and also the entire control mechanism. On this occasion, however, I would like to point out that in this report we have obtained data from these two banks, and also in the operations of the Bank of Slovenia, we have also seen deviations from good practice, but the fact is that 5.1 billion euros, as far as we have intended to rehabilitate the banking system, have been carried out in cooperation with the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. So what we should continue to do in Slovenia – and probably make a great deal of effort in this regard in the banking hole investigation committee itself – is to touch on decisions in these bodies. For all these consequences, which are felt by men, are related to all those who have taken part in this decision. And one is in this hole, which was done because of unsecured loans, another because the loans were leased for managers' buy-ins and thus exhausted companies up to, as a rule, their downturn, and the third is the reality of the assessment of the bank hole by all these authorities that I mentioned. Finally, the procedures we face today in individual banks are still going in the direction that nothing will change in Slovenia in this area. It has to change, it has to change dramatically, and let us hope that this mid-term report will be one of the important steps in order to have an exemplary banking system, and also an exemplaryly structured attitude, particularly towards the economy, which still needs the money that we have invested in banks and needlessly lies in this moment with negative interest abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a 5-billion-dollar bank hole that we have saved by taxpayers, and in the opinion of law enforcement authorities, at least until now, there have been no culprits for this bank hole. It was created by itself, so to speak, until the establishment and work of this commission of inquiry seemed so. In New Slovenia, we will support the interim report and also all conclusions. The Commission of Inquiry carried out its work excellently through hearings and also through various testimonies. We have come to important conclusions about how the bank hole was dug in two banks and how the Bank of Slovenia's regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, failed to do what was actually meant to be done. And the bill is 5 billion taxpayers' money. The Commission of Inquiry has also done what the investigating authorities and law enforcement authorities should have done in the past; instead, a number of work has been done during this one-year period of hard work. Politics must show in particular its determination today to support these efforts made this year and a clear signal for the treatment of the following banks – in particular the New Ljubljana Bank, the Maribor NCB and other cases – that this will be a clear signal of policy, that the hole and the site will not be paid in any way, especially the policy must be uniform in this place. Because of what I have already said, we will support recommendations and conclusions in Nova Slovenija, and we would like to give a preliminary opinion on the specialised court. In Novi Slovenije, we have already tabled a law in the parliamentary procedure setting up a specialised section of the court and a special department of the prosecution, which would deal with it, namely, the prosecution of banking crime. For even in the opinion of the first prosecutor, Mr Furlan, we will not be able to get to the bottom of a bank hole unless we step on the fingers of bank criminals unless a specialised state prosecutor and a specialised court are established. We must also take a step forward in politics here and do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. I have already said in my position that I believe in a just epilogue, and that is why our Group fully supports the interim report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We will certainly support both the interim report and all conclusions within the Group of Non-Aligned Members, because we are constantly working to eliminate and prosecute financial crime. This is, of course, only the first step, we expect the most difficult step to take, namely, financial crime in the largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank. I hope that there will be all political support for us to take this step as well. Of course, it is the elimination and detection of all kinds of responsibilities; criminal responsibility and compensation are, as we see, concealed and supported. Of course, career responsibility and political responsibility — too, to a large extent. All together, it is a first step towards greater detection of financial crime, controlled by informal networks, and therefore by major pressures and defence mechanisms against the detection of such crime. Of course, the Commission has encountered a number of obstacles that we have overcome with the help of other institutions. I think that there will still be a lot of commitment at all levels, while also supporting investigative institutions. What we have achieved is also an achievement for investigators in the police, in the prosecution and elsewhere to see that financial crime issues can be moved and will be an incentive for their work to move forward, of course, by keeping a close eye on what is happening in these institutions. The conclusions should, however, help to make these institutions work better as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal, not because we will find criminals or because we have a bank hole of 5 billion, because we haven't had it for a while, we've wasted it. You need to know that. In particular, I will support this because the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that the purpose of the Commission is to seek political responsibility, but if it finds elements of the crime, it is known what it is to do with this Commission. I believe and I hope we can get to the bottom of this one day. Above all, I would like to say that we do not use these commissions for illustrations, for something that is not within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. What she found and found by the criminal service or law enforcement agencies will show time, but if we encourage them to do so, we will add some added value, and I am even more happy. I will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a bill on the provision of payment services to budgetary users under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act and Management Companies under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 48(4) of the Law on intangibleised securities. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 48(4) of the Law on intangibleised securities shall be adopted. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. I'll try to explain what we're doing, by example. In Slovenia we still have regulated gas prices, at least for those who are not on motorways. Imagine coming to a gas station and having a regulated gas price, say 1.2 euros. And the gas service tells you, O.K., that's the price of gasoline that the state allows us, but we still have the costs with the employees on this pump, and the cost of video surveillance, cleaning costs, the cost of setting up this building. So we'll charge you four and a half euros per litre of gas. About this way, the law has so far taken into account stock of stock exchanges that have tried to make more than 200,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are legally forced to close their registration accounts and open their stores, even though they do not trade with property. More or less, it's about the pensioners and the people who got some property with the property. They were charged with enormous costs, although it was already entered into the law when we adopted it that these costs should not exceed 0,5 % of the value of the invoice. That's how we got into situations where someone brought an account with 50 euros of shares and his stock exchange house for one year of account management and wrote an account for the opening. By law, 25 cents would be allowed. The authentic interpretation of such practice prevents and, by authentic explanation, those who have been harmed will also be entitled to reimbursement in return. In the United Left, of course, we will support this authentic explanation, which we have also proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 77 were voted against and 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, so we are going to go to the text of the authentic interpretation, first of all to decide on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to the proposal for a text of the authentic interpretation, which fully replaces the proposed text of the interpretation. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 77 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We are moving on to a decision on the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the Final Account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Credits under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 17. 11. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, decided, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. Since the proposal for a law on the second reading of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Articles 69 and 76, which you received on the e-clup. Would you like to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? [[Not at all.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Articles 69 and 76. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 69 were voted against and no one was present. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 68 were voted against and no one was present. [[For vote 68.]] [[Nobody's free.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on the Central Credit Register in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday 17. 11. 2016 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as an investor, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly in the second reading of the draft law were inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 74 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
