ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić, Miha Kordiš, Mrs Iva Dimic by 2 p.m., Mrs Janja Sluga, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Anita Koleša, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 5 p.m. on, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jan Mahnič, Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Jože Tanko from 16 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to the rest of you! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Thursday 26 May 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal recommended in relation to the problem of the distribution between the taxes and contributions paid and the public goods which it holds for these taxes paid and the contributions made. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 28 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Mag. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia Group and the two minority Members, we have decided to request the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to address the issue of the relationship between taxes paid and contributions and public goods offered by the State for these taxes paid and contributions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are convinced that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia should know how the country has spent the funds collected for the current year and which public goods and to what extent it has provided for all the contributions paid. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that during the last two governments we have been able to follow a monthly increase in tax, excise and other burdens, both for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for the economy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Slovenia and Slovenia pay a lot of taxes, and the question is, what do we get back taxes, contributions, excise duties or what does the country do with these taxes? Just in case, it would be pointed out that a worker who earns an average wage of EUR 12 000 400 per year has to pay EUR 9 000 per year for income, contributions, pensions and health insurance. This means that 12,000 euros go into his pocket and 9 000 138 euros is paid to the country. In Slovenia, there is a myth that we have free health care, but those who have an annual salary pay EUR 2 000 418 per year for health insurance. EUR 2 000 418 is paid by a worker with an average salary for health insurance, and we all know the health situation. We pay health care and waiting types are increasing. Let's just take a look at the power station, what's still attached next to the electricity. We would also point out the prices of oil derivatives, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we have repeatedly warned that the government of Mir Cerar does not implement the appropriate excise policy and that the price of oil derivatives in Slovenia is too high compared to neighbouring countries. On oil derivatives, they are suspended: CO2 charge, energy savings allowance, excise duty allowance, contribution to provide support for electricity production and value added tax. We want to know what's going on with all the taxes, the excises, and everything the state's doing. We are convinced that it would be fair for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to report once a year to the Ministry of Finance or FURS. Why are taxes used? How many kindergartens have been built? How many schools have been built? Did the waiting species in the health care sector shrink or not? How many roads in Slovenia have been restored? For all these are the contributions we pay the citizens. We have proposed two recommendations. First recommendation: The National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce to the next draft state budget or budget rebalancing the results a targeted budget and tool such as cost-benefit analysis, thereby clearly and concretely showing which public goods, to what extent and what quality it will enable citizens to pay their taxes and contributions and what results or benefits this will bring to society. Second recommendation: The National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a report on the use of tax revenues after years within 90 days of the adoption of this Decision, including in 2012 and including 2015. As already mentioned, it would be fair for FURS or the Ministry of Finance to prepare a report annually on why taxes are being used. However, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, of course, the voting machine of the coalition – the parties of the modern centre, SD and Desus – acted in a coordinated manner and as usual. Where recommendations are recommended by the opposition, you shall reject them in full. Dear coalition, I understand that you rejected the second recommendation, but you rejected the first recommendation, but I am surprised that I have here the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the 2014-2018 period – Party Mira Cerar, Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Social Democrats – which is signed. In this coalition contract, you have this recommendation that we have proposed, written down, and you have rejected it. I will read to you on the 21st page of the coalition treaties: 'We will prepare a programme budget by setting priorities and criteria that will help to make the use of limited resources more efficient'. Then you have a programme budget written in the coalition contract on page 22, which is a copy-paste of what we have as a recommendation that you have rejected. I will read it to you once again: "To improve the efficiency of the spending of these budgetary resources, we will change the way the country's budget is prepared, presented and implemented. Programme budget. The objective of the project is to plan expenditure in direct connection with the objectives and activities to achieve these objectives. At the country level, according to the strategy adopted, we will draw up individual programmes, set their priorities and implementation after each year. We will monitor the effectiveness, accountability and timing of each programme." It's the text, the well-respected coalition, from your coalition contract. And you on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, because of the SDS's proposal, you refuse to do so. This means that you reject what you have pledged to do in your coalition contract - the Party of the Modern Centre, Desus and SD. Let's just imagine where your ethics and morality are. You reject the recommendations you have made in your own coalition contract. I think that's what we said. In the following or in the discussion, however, there is more.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I would also like to give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! On behalf of all citizens, the country shall decide on the treatment of the money collected by these same citizens in the state budget. This is one of the greatest responsibilities of the state. In order for this relationship to work well, we need confidence between the country and the citizens. Trust is crucial. Trust is crucial in our very complex life as an individual or a country. Unfortunately, this trust in Slovenia seems to be almost completely broken. In recent times, for example, tax rebates have contributed to the breakdown of this trust, which have somehow hit those who have paid fair and consistent taxes so far. Citizens' trust was also undermined in the billions of bank recapitalisations. The taxpayers are rightly wondering how it is possible for our hard-earned money, which we have relied on to manage the country through taxes, to land directly in patched bank holes. And for these bank holes, no one has ever responded to the surface until today. This is a key issue that plagues this Slovenian society. Slovenia, on the other hand, has been taxed, and we have proved this many times in Novi Slovenija. Let's see some data: if someone in Slovenia deserves a minimum wage, the country takes about 60% of their net salary with contributions. For the average wage, this percentage rises to almost 80%, with twice the average wage still poor for the European situation, the country already takes the value of one total net salary from the employee. For example, thousands of €559 in gross wages in Slovenia receive a thousand €034 net salary and a thousand €236 in neighbouring Austria. This shows that Slovenian tax policy, compared to other countries, reduces the competitiveness of our economy, complicates the development of the country and, consequently, hinders the growth of the welfare of our citizens and citizens. Given lower taxation in Austria, we could ask ourselves whether their budget benefits are lower than ours. It would be difficult to answer this question firmly. Clearly, in Slovenia, we are doing something very wrong in the management of tax policy and in the management of budgetary money. We need greater coordination between taxpayers' expectations and the actual direction of taxpayers' money. In addition, it is necessary to establish a system that will allow for an analysis of the usefulness or effectiveness of the use of state money. It is simply not fair for taxpayers to spend their money without analysing whether this spending is really useful and justified. In this context we have also proposed a recommendation under order number 2 and also in New Slovenia we are truly disappointed that it has not been accepted. For us Members, this report, as requested by recommendation number 2, would be very instructive. If this is not the case, citizens become, understandably, unmotivated to pay taxes, resulting in an increase in the grey economy, tax evasion and a new tax drop. It is a vicious circle that can be prevented only by smart and moderate taxation and rational use of collected money. Well, with increased trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u5	The proposal for a recommendation is 27. 5. 2016 discussed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Since the Committee did not adopt parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 57th emergency meeting. 5. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a recommendation. In addition to the proposal for a recommendation, the Committee also had before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a recommendation. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service were present at the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the applicant, the Member of the SDS Group, Mr Franz Breznik, presented the content of the proposal for a recommendation and said that it was important that the State reimburses citizens in the form of public goods, which they paid in the form of taxes and contributions. While the consumption review shows the purpose of the funds, it does not demonstrate the effectiveness of the distribution or consumption of funds. The trend of raising taxes on non-life-related goods, such as oil derivatives and cigarettes, is noticeable. The applicant further presented several areas such as the payment of taxes and contributions from salaries, the tax on the income of natural persons, social contributions, the number of employees, expenditure on health and pension care, while comparing certain areas with neighbouring countries. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew up a written opinion and made comments to points 1 and 2 of the Recommendation. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said in the introduction that the Government has a legal basis for the functioning of the budget and final accounts in the legal acts already adopted. In doing so, it highlighted as important the practice of using these legal resources. Since 2006, the government has been using a single methodology to prepare and address investment documentation in the field of public finances, the speed of which has been partly reversed as a result of the crisis. Regulations on a uniform methodology for the preparation and treatment of investment documents in the field of state roads, public railway infrastructure and defence currently apply. In 2015, a review was carried out of expenditure on health, social and education, as well as in some other areas. At the same time, it also highlighted as important the skills of the staff to prepare and choose the right indicators for each area. With regard to the results of the targeted budget, however, she pointed out that there are other aspects, highlighting the social dimension and the level of solidarity that also affects the level of expenditure. The debate highlighted the issue of gross and net wages compared to neighbouring Austria, the efficiency of the allocation of budgetary resources and the effective collection of taxes, the improvement of the business environment and the debirocratisation and the importance of solidarity. On the contrary, some members felt that several steps had already been taken in the right direction and that in some areas Slovenia was more favourable than, for example, comparable other European countries, mentioning property tax and corporate income tax. Following the debate, some advocated early reforms and also highlighted the issue of capital taxation. In the course of the debate, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications and presented a final overview of the measures taken by the Government. After discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the draft act in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has drawn up a negative opinion on the proposal and allow me to summarise a few key points from the written position of the Government. In drawing up the recommendations, the proposer overlooked the design and adoption of the draft budget from 2001 onward and that, for each policy, programmes and sub-programmes, specific objectives and indicators to be achieved in each area. The applicant also overlooked that, on the basis of the Single Methodology Regulation for the preparation and treatment of public finance investment documentation from 2006 onwards, a cost-benefit analysis is being prepared for projects and programmes where this is substantively appropriate and feasible. Let me also point out that the Government prepares an annual report on the use of public finances in the form of a final budget account. It is also based on the programme classification, audited by the Court of Auditors and approved or examined by the National Assembly in the final instance. The report on the consumption of only tax revenues, which are mainly part of the integrated budget, cannot be prepared as all the integral public financial revenues are spent to cover all the integral public financial expenditure. The proposal is based on the assumption that we do not have a programme budget in Slovenia, nor on the objectives of targeted public spending planning. This is not the case, but the financial crisis of recent years has prevented a more intensive development of the system. Therefore, now that we have reached the first key objective of fiscal consolidation, this is to reduce the country's deficit below 3% of GDP, we need to strengthen our efforts to increase transparency and efficiency in public financial spending. Therefore, the Government is already in the process of implementing what today's panellists miss. Let me give you some concrete measures. Already today, in planning the use of European funds, the new financial perspective at the head of the programme and the objectives of the targeted budget are particularly closely taken into account. The upgrading of existing programme budget solutions is included as one of the objectives of the Public Administration Development Strategy. We are planning and preparing to strengthen the legislative framework by means of the new Public Finance Act, which will set these principles at the level of law and will apply not only to the state budget but to all financial public funding. As early as last year, with the assistance of international experts, the government launched a process of systematic review of expenditure on specific public spending areas, with the aim of determining whether funds are being used in selected areas in a prudent and efficient manner or making recommendations on how to make even more effective use of available funds. We are also continuing these activities this year, and I expect that we will also be in the coming years. The existing, diversified and opaque structure of the general and specific objectives, results and direct effects of individual policies should be recast with a view to developing a more transparent structure that will allow for more appropriate monitoring of results. The objective of the Government is to achieve, in redesigning the objectives of the targeted budget, that each level of classification will have a limited number of clear, simple and generally understandable objectives with measurable indicators. All the recommendations and the Government's actions I have presented are the tools the Government wants to achieve the optimal use of public expenditure and are only a tool to achieve the objectives set. In particular, let me stress that the entire content of the recommendations has already been implemented by the Government and will continue to do so in the future. However, as the starting point of total public finances spending, we still need to ask ourselves the substantive question of which goods are the ones we want to provide from public resources, what level of solidarity in society we want to ensure, what level of social security and what extent of public resources we can guarantee in terms of our economic power. Article 148 of the Constitution requires us to spend only as much as we create without debt for these purposes. This must be seen, not only today, but also when we are discussing draft budgets, we are proposing amendments that are additional to the use of public funds, and during the year we are discussing the requirements for the provision of additional public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. In the National Assembly, the Group of Members and Members proposed to consider and adopt a recommendation in which the Government imposes and proposes to introduce towards the results a targeted budget and tools such as cost-benefit analysis, with a view to making clear what public goods, to what extent and to what quality it will enable citizens to pay their taxes and contributions and what benefits this will bring to society. The proposer, however, presented a number of areas that could be discussed today. One is the discussion on the proposed recommendations, which focus mainly on the objectives of the targeted budget, and the other is the discussion on the accompanying material, which focuses mainly on excessive tax burdens and the incorrect structure of public spending. This consideration can be seen as some kind of budgetary debate. The budget is precisely that document of the country in which all revenue and other revenue on the one hand and expenditure and other expenditure of the State on the other are foreseen and described in detail. It sets out multi-annual macroeconomic policies aimed at ensuring stable public finances and promoting economic and social development, which is achieved through the provision of good public goods and at this point it is worth stressing that this debate has already been carried out, as the targets for the use of budgetary resources for 2016 and for 2017 are already clearly set, by adopting all the budget documents laid down for those two years. Following the presentation of the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, I will first identify myself, in the first part, primarily to tools to increase the efficiency of public finances and, in this context, to the programme budget, and in the second part to the tax policy referred to by the proposer. Proper budgeting is one of the most important elements of public administration. If the programme is not optimal and instead focuses on the indices of past years, the implementation of the programme is less effective and, above all, less reliable. In Slovenia, the start of budget planning reform dates back to 2001, when the state budget was first presented according to the programme structure. The programme structure of the budgets itself has combined tasks or activities in the area into programmes and policies, but the objectives and results of the programmes and the linkage with the implementation of the public services themselves have not always been clear. The next wave of reforms in the period 2010 to 2012 has tried to fix this, to change the way the budget is drawn up, so that the objectives, objectives and indicators, which are otherwise part of the budgetary documentation, are key to decision-making on specific budgetary allocations. The results-oriented programme budget will certainly bring a clearer picture of where we are, what we have drawn, where we want to go and how social prosperity has increased. We have therefore committed ourselves, together with the coalition partners in the Coalition Treaty, to upgrading the programming approach to planning and preparing the state budget, which will allow for a more substantive debate on directing limited public funds to the priority needs of the Slovenian State. Where are we in this area today, after two years? In the Public Administration Development Strategy 2015-2020 adopted last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia clearly identified the necessary measures relating to all budgetary users in the public administration to achieve the objectives of efficient use of both human resources, financial, spatial, environmental, energy and other resources. However, the programming budget is already being used as a mechanism or tool to link strategic plans and government priorities with the preparation of the State budget. The programme approach and the objectives of targeted budget spending proposed by the proposer are now implemented in practice on the basis of a government regulation and in particular on the use of European cohesion policy funds from the 2014-2020 financial perspective. The total financial plan resulting from the 2014-2020 operational programme amounts to a good EUR 3 billion. With the operational programme, Slovenia has committed itself to making targeted use of the available funds within certain deadlines. However, the Government's further priority in this area is to gradually integrate all sector entities that will be part of the single information system into the programme budget system. This will enable the monitoring and evaluation of objectives with appropriate indicators and the actual measurement of the effectiveness of public sector expenditure. Here another important measure introduced by the Government to improve the efficient use of public funds, notably by strengthening the legislative framework for responsible public financial policy, including the programme budget, is the new Public Finance Act. It will legalize medium-term planning and monitoring of fiscal policy in accordance with the Fiscal Rule and Provisions Act in Article 148 of the Constitution, which will give effect to the principle of public finances balance at the highest level. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that in 2015 the Government began to systematically carry out expenditure reviews in specific areas with the aim of increasing the efficiency of public expenditure. A comprehensive review of the healthcare system has been completed, and a review of expenditure in the field of social security and pension protection has also been completed, together with proposals for possible solutions to improve efficiency. An overview of education expenditure is in the final stage and a cultural process will begin. These findings will also and will help to ensure that further budget preparation is based on concrete findings and will help to better plan public spending. All the tools mentioned by the Government to achieve the optimal use of public expenditure and I have cited them are a tool to achieve the objectives set. However, the aim of all of us is to maintain the level of solidarity achieved and the high level of social security and prosperity, but we must also be aware of the unfavourable trends in demographic trends that will need to be taken into account in the further medium and long-term planning of public finances. However, we must also be aware of the fact that we can only spend as much as we create. However, in order to achieve some of the objectives already set and to make positive progress in this area, the European Commission has also recognised that it has proposed to close the surplus deficit procedure for Slovenia. In 2015, for the first time since the crisis, Slovenia reached a deficit of less than 3% of GDP. Finally, a new world competitiveness scale was published in these days, which has ranked Slovenia 6 places higher on this scale for the second year in a row. In two years Slovenia has therefore improved its position by as many as 12 cities and is one of those countries that has made the greatest progress. Progress has been the greatest in the field of government efficiency, where Slovenia has progressed by 7 cities and today occupies a city comparable to the ranking that Slovenia had at the time of the crisis. Within this framework, we have made the most progress in terms of public finances, the social framework, fiscal policy and the institutional framework and business legislation, according to these estimates. I am moving on to a brief presentation of my position on the management of tax policy, where in our view it is particularly important to prepare economic growth-friendly measures by strengthening the competitiveness of the business environment and a stable public financial environment. However, when looking for appropriate solutions in this area, we can also draw from international comparisons of the burden with taxes and contributions. Slovenia is on the one hand, according to European Commission data, after tax burden and under-average contributions of 40% of gross domestic product for 2014. For Slovenia, this figure is 37%, but further data on the economic structure of taxes and contributions show that the economic structure of taxes is not the most favourable in terms of competitiveness, since it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-the-average burden of labour with social security and consumption contributions and the average burden of capital and property. In our view, therefore, the assessment of the tax burden should be seen in its entirety and not only from the point of view of one tax or one group of taxes. On the other hand, data on the burden of Slovenian wages shows that we are above the average of OECD countries. Slovenia is therefore moving upwards after the 2015 labour burden compared to the competing countries in the tax margin. Compared to some more developed countries, the expected downwards – Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Scandinavian countries and others show even higher burdens. If we take a small look at the structure of taxation compared to the OECD, we are moving down to the income and social security contributions of the employer and up to the social security contributions of the worker. With us social security contributions represent as many as three quarters of the total tax margin of 42%. For comparison at OECD level, this is approximately 36%, of which two-thirds of social security contributions. In view of the above, the Government is already preparing measures to restructure the public financial burdens based on the principle of a fair and equitable distribution of public financial burdens with a clear objective of further fiscal consolidation. The government's measures, which we consider positive in our Group, are mainly going in the next direction. First time. Restructuring the burden of public benefits, including the burden of real estate, which aims to reduce key over-average burdens and thus boost economic growth. This is a reduction in labour burdens as a factor that has the most negative impact on competitiveness and, at the same time, poses a greater obstacle to further economic growth. Another time. Reducing administrative barriers, gradually achieving a more transparent, clearer and simpler tax system. Just yesterday, if I give you an example, we adopted on the Committee on Finance a new Law on excise duties, which eliminates a number of unnecessary administrative obligations on the one hand and simplifies procedures for taxpayers, thereby facilitating the application of the regulation and enhancing the legal certainty of the debtors. There is also a new package of simplification under the Tax Procedure Act. If I go further, let me point out the third segment, which concerns improving the efficiency of collecting public levies and eliminating the identified anomalies of the existing system, where a number of measures have already been taken. Let me summarise and finish. In recent years there have been significant positive developments in a number of areas that also have an impact on better or more efficient use of budgetary resources. With economic growth spurred by exports and state investments, Slovenia ceased to move away from the EU average in 2014 after development and the government deficit fell below 3% of GDP in 2000. The labour market has also begun to improve the material situation of the population, but economic progress is not yet as we would like, as the potential for economic growth has fallen in the crisis, and thus the possibility of a greater improvement in the well-being of the population, which is further threatened by unfavourable demographic movements. The government is therefore already preparing additional structural changes that will focus on increasing productivity and adapting to the social protection and ageing system. These changes are also essential for the further consolidation of public finances, thereby establishing a stable macroeconomic environment as a basis for further and sustainable development. The adoption of the proposed recommendations is therefore totally unnecessary in our view, as it follows from everything that the Government has already fully implemented and progressively upgraded the content of the recommendations under the Coalition Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u11	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear guests, dear colleagues and friends! Today we are ahead of an important session where we will not discuss the past. We may discuss eight dry years of Slovenia, eight years of free running. Above all, we will talk – as we will prove to you in the Slovenian Democratic Party – about the lost years of the present and about the lost future for many generations. Today there will be a debate, an argument against the argument, today you will be able to prove that Slovenia is not in the middle of your mandate, that you have done much for this country, that you have made many structural reforms, and we will prove that this is not the case. Dear colleagues! In Slovenia, we are faced with a number of opinions on how much taxes we pay to the country, how much of the taxes paid the country receives in the form of offering public goods and how much it pays to its citizens. You have an indicative review of this in your documents prepared for this meeting today, showing the consolidated balance sheet of the state budget, the budget of the municipalities, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. In this way, the state finances pensions, social protection, health care, education, service public debt, finance economic activities such as agriculture, transport, trade, public order, security, recreation, culture, religion, environment and space, defence and other public services. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of the EOCD of Slovenia forecasts 1.5% growth in gross domestic product this year, which is 0.4% less than the forecast of November last year. Next year, economic growth is expected to accelerate to 2.3%, and this is 0.4% less than the OECD announced last November. Similarly, the OECD, like other domestic international institutions, has reached 2.9% last year, attributed lower export growth due to the more uncertain world economy situation and the temporary decline in public investment at the start of the new multiannual financial period. Also, honourable colleagues and colleagues, with the latest forecast for Slovenia, the OECD stresses that Slovenia's priority must be to continue restructuring companies – with emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises – and to reduce the volume of bad loans in the banking system. While the situation in banks has improved according to the OECD assessment, the level of bad loans is still high and loans to businesses are still declining over the years. Companies continue to recover, the impact of the current reduction in indebtedness is still reflected in the growth of companies' investments in equipment. The OECD also calls on the country to continue balancing public finances, and according to them, the country must protect the incomes of the socially weak, as the number of socially excluded and those below the poverty line is increasing. In this light, there is also a call for measures to improve the situation for young, older and long-term unemployed in the labour market. Once again, the OECD calls on Slovenia to implement structural reforms in the area of the pension system, health care and education in particular. In order to increase the productivity of the economy, they have assessed that measures are necessary to remove administrative barriers, the tax burden on the most productive ones and the continuation of privatisation procedures. Recent developments with regard to Paloma and Rawovina show that Polish investors are withdrawing and that negative trends, particularly with regard to foreign investments, continue in Slovenia. In calculating how much taxes and contributions the worker pays, of course, it is also necessary to take into account the total cost of the employer, which we often neglect. In fact, the total cost of the employer represents the amount earned by the worker in his work and is therefore, in essence, willing to pay the employer on the market. However, by virtue of the worker’s earnings, the state intervenes in the form of contributions and taxes to the worker. Therefore, it is a matter of instructing the Government and trade unions that the social contributions paid by the employer are not the cost of workers, in essence, of misleading. In Slovenia, the country takes about 60% of its net salary in the form of contributions and taxes to a worker who applies a mere general benefit, with an average wage of about 80%, and with a double average wage, the country takes even a net salary for the worker. This percentage, however, increases more progressively in wages higher than twice the average wage. In these facts, it is also incomprehensible to take some unions to increase the contribution rates for social contributions, as this actually means a lower net salary for the worker. When the rate of contribution increases, the total cost of the employer or the employee’s earnings will remain the same. What doesn't change is that the country takes more from the employee than its profits. Now all I was talking about was the workers. How do foreign investors view us? How do employers view us? What public services, public goods, is this country willing to pay them for the service of paying all taxes and contributions? Dear colleagues, we're almost halfway through your term of office. Most often, at least in the first half of the mandate, the government makes the necessary structural reforms and measures necessary for the further growth of a particular sector or country. Let me remind you what your actions were during this term. For the first half of the year, you were primarily dealing with the withdrawal of Mr Janez Janš's mandate, then you were dealing with the expulsion of foreigners from a bad bank, then you were dealing with an important measure of redefining the family where you lost the referendum. Even at the time of the preparation of this meeting, no fundamental reform took place in the Slovenian courts. Just two days ago, the ECHR - the European Court of Human Rights reissued the judgment in which Slovenia lost, it is the case of Dance vs Slovenia, which points to the urgent changes in all systems and subsystems of this country, to the urgent agreement between all of us here today, in this area. Which institutions does this country need, which public institutions, which funds, which public powers do some companies need, which they can afford, which they cannot afford? How do these institutions essentially work, from the health system that is before the collapse, to the national security system that experiences, respected colleagues and colleagues, the lowest degree of their development and total decline, to the Slovenian judicial system? All of this comes to the importance of this meeting today, how these institutions work, how much we pay and what services citizens and also the company receive for it. Let me also mention some statistics that are relevant for today's meeting. Comparison of Slovenia on international scales, in particular competitiveness. Classifications of Slovenia on the World Economic Forum rankings among 148 countries. In 2006, at the mid-term of the first government, Janez Janša, Slovenia was 33th among 148 countries. By the end of last year, we had a 59th town. On the World Bank Doing Business scale, we reached 116th in Slovenia among 189 countries, especially in terms of access to debt financing. The application of contracts, length and costs by the judge of proceedings in the event of disputes, options outside the settlement of disputes – 122nd place. Real estate register, time, costs and procedures when entering real estate in the land book – 90. The place. Acquisition of construction allowed – 90 city. Dear colleagues, let me remind you of the economic freedom of the world. Most of the time you speak, especially the one with the United Left, that Slovenia is on the path of some large non-liberal countries. Study Visio Institute Economic Freedom of the World, where among 157 countries it identifies our economic freedom, where in the first places those countries, some of whom you speak defamatoryly, are non-liberal, where they are in the middle of a liberal state and ultimately a socialist state. Slovenia holds 111th place among 157 countries, so we compare ourselves with countries such as Nigeria and China. We are not even among the countries in which some liberal principles apply, but above all some socialist principles. We're in 111th in 157 countries. So much for the economic freedom of the world. I would also like to remind you of the number of employees in public administration bodies. At the middle of the first government mandate, Janez Janša had 153 thousand 496 people employed in the public administration; today we have 159 thousand employed in public administrations, which means that the number has risen by 6,000 people. Thus, in times of crisis, employment rose by 6,000. Unemployment and work permits. This should be of particular interest to those who retire, pensioners. So how many people work more, how much less work, how many more contributions were paid to the pension fund. In December 2008, the number of unemployed was 66,000 239. Given the number of 2014 when there was a crisis to the end, we then issued 67 000 more work permits for foreigners. The difference between the unemployed and foreigners who worked in Slovenia was 120 thousand 604. So many individuals have worked and paid contributions in Slovenia. 120,000 people. Further, let me present the indicators, which are also decisive, i.e. the main macroeconomic indicators for Slovenia. Let us focus on the economic growth I have been talking about. Approximately 1.5% is forecast in 2016, which is a decline. In 2017, mainly due to some European projects, you predict 2.4% of economic growth. Let me also remind you of the countries that are holding on to our economic growth. The country to which Slovenia exports most is the Federal Republic of Germany, there is some stability, economic growth, but Slovenia has not taken some serious structural steps in all these years of favourable financing and very favourable market conditions in this first term. She lived on some of the steps taken by the other Janšev government, which, in the opinion of Mr Štefanec, was subsequently removed as a result of the KPC's political decision. So now you have lived on this boat without any structural reforms. I don't know what we're afraid of, dear colleagues and colleagues. Why are we afraid of change? Today, in the year we celebrate 25 years of our country, we have proved that the Slovenians are a brave nation. 25 years ago, we did not only defeat the then Yugoslav army, but we overcame the fear of change in the first place. This courage, respected colleagues and colleagues, we also wish to give you today in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We want to encourage you to make serious structural reforms. As long as there are favourable market conditions and as long as there are favourable conditions regarding the financing of many of our companies and also the countries. We are facing a global world that is changing every day, and every day requires new decisions from us. Most of the time, therefore, we stress our indebtedness, stressing our trend of indebtedness, which has been devastating. Let us remember that in 2008 Slovenia was in charge of 22%, today, after a bad 8 years, we are wooding up to 90% of the social gross product of our indebtedness. Let us recall that Greece, which experienced a collapse, was in debt of 100% in 2008 and was in debt of around 170% during the biggest crisis, i.e. the debt growth index in Greece was 70%. The Slovenian debt growth index in 2008 and 2016 is over 370, i.e. the index with the number 370. The adjustment of the Slovenian state, Slovenian systems and subsystems of this country shows that Slovenia is not adapting to the current changes. Let me get this straight. From the beginning, 25 years ago, Slovenians and Slovenes were aware that Slovenia is a small country. The advantage of a small state should be flexibility. This is not Slovenia today, dear colleagues and colleagues. Slovenia is complicated, Slovenia is a dear country, Slovenia is inflexible, it is very poor and difficult to respond to changes in the world. One of the key changes in the modernisation of our society and the country is precisely to make it simpler, simpler, more flexible, as well as its political structure, both economic and social, in order to preserve the country as a subject of cooperation with its neighbours, in the region, so that the Slovenians are still in the European Union and that the Slovenians live a better life. Let me remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that 25 years ago Dr Jože Pučnik said: "The Communication of Slovenian Statehood is a requirement for the fulfilment of the conditions for the well-being of citizens and people with their culture and within the framework of European civilisation." That's what today is about. This is what the Slovenian Democratic Party is all about today. Despite our opposition, we want to encourage you to reform. Today we want to give you information on how devastating this country is, how some of the institutions of this country, which are paid by citizens and a number of businesses, expensive, inefficient, hindering economic growth, hindering any change. We wish to give you today, my fellow Members and colleagues, especially courage. Courage, because the scissors and the canvas are in your hands because you're part of the coalition. Above all, we want to encourage you to reflect on your own philosophy of life – What did I do when the country gave me this opportunity to do something for my citizens, for my citizens, so that I can create their present and future? Today in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are talking only about the present and the future. Today we would like to speak with arguments against the argument. We want to prove why young people, prospective, capable, very good people are withdrawing from Slovenia, why many companies are withdrawing, why many multinational companies are withdrawing, why they do not want to recapitalise. Why do some actions that have never been proven and some policies that have always been destructive repeat the same mistakes we have made in the past? Why are we doing this, and why are we destroying the present and the future of many citizens? I must admit, I have special emotions in the National Assembly today. Exactly 25 years ago, at this hour, I swore an oath to the Slovenian state, then as a young boy as a recruiter to defend its integrity with a weapon to defend the independence of this coming country, and then I swore to defend its sovereignty. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, we defend this sovereignty with our knowledge, with our technologies, with our knowledge that Slovenia is not only a country of poets and writers, but that we have many entrepreneurs in Slovenia, many capable individuals who have proven themselves and prove themselves in many European and global markets. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, we can also talk about them here. We are talking about them, what business environment we will prepare for them, how we will look at the effectiveness of the system and subsystems, to stay here, to be our citizens and to make Slovenia a new development cycle, to make a new development drive and to enter between the countries, among the other Switzerland. We Slovenians are capable of this, we have proven this most often with sports achievements, but I believe that we can also prove this through political achievements and, above all, economic achievements. Dear colleagues, so much for me. Today we're going to turn around, we're going to introduce you to those areas that are the most inefficient, and we're going to present you with the statistics that are devastating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the relationship between taxes and contributions paid and public goods offered by the State for these taxes and contributions paid. Thematics or criticisms, generally said, this time cover virtually all areas. Indeed, the recommendations relate to the preparation of the budget, in particular to the planning of tax revenues, but the explanation of the request for a reference to this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is significantly broader, to most measures to strengthen public finances, including social issues. The content is too extensive and relates to respect for almost the entire coalition contract. However, I do not think that there is an opportunity for an audit or inventory after half the term of office. Speakers have once again tried to be liked, which is legitimate, and particularly critical to the work of the current government. This negative criticism is also perfectly legitimate and is in place many times. However, one feels as if it were just before the elections, as if an electoral battle had already begun, that we were discussing and analysing everything that was good or considered by the applicant bad or bad and what was bad done in the past. We know a recurring story that the current government has done nothing or almost nothing to improve the social situation of Slovenes and Slovenians. Of course, I don't think that's true. The standard of living of the inhabitants and their social security are not measured solely and exclusively by the measures adopted, adopted by laws and the like and by a comparative analysis with other European countries. In the event that we have too high taxes, too high a social and health security contribution in Slovenia, the applicants should also take into account that without the latter we cannot ensure the sustainability of the pension and invalidity cash register. If there is no money for the basic performance of these tasks, how can we expect services or services to be at the optimum level, at the expected or requested level? The only thing that we consider acceptable and possible in the Desus Group is a possible and desirable gradual transition to equalising inflow rates in both cash registers. This would increase its sustainability and autonomy with regard to funding sources while eliminating the 20-year-old burden anomaly of employers and employees. Also in the Desus Group, we believe that the better position of the population must be seen primarily in the area of private consumption, which is, of course, dependent on the number of employees and the reduction of unemployment. Perhaps we could at times wish for the kind of unemployment that was in past socialism when it was virtually gone. Applicants in one of the indications state a tax rise on goods that are not of vital importance. We're talking cigarettes, alcohol, something else I could count. I repeat that these are products, for those goods, for those products and not least for those services that are not of vital importance. What about those who are? Those essential daily needs, such as food, bread and milk, which has become almost "luxury" for many people. We also have a problem here that an increasing number of people are falling below the poverty threshold, including or especially the older population. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that if we allow people to have jobs and decent, decent salaries, and consequently also pensions, they will be the easiest to go, but not the easiest to live, from month to month. There must be that country's priority. Therefore, if we are already changing the tax policy, we need to implement the latter in a way that the middle layer, the middle class and, of course, the lowest one, in itself, must be realised. In the specific cases that I mentioned earlier, i.e. at the price of tobacco, alcohol and could also list, we do not, of course, accept the fact that these matters need to be unloaded. In the Desus Group, we cannot go beyond the fact that we do not use a few additional words of health care and pension money. Already in adopting the Decree in the framework for the preparation of the country's budgets for the period 2017 to 2019, we have appealed that we will not allow in any way to jeopardise the normal payment and coordination of pensions. When reshaping the country's budget, the right to decent and well-deserved pensions of pensioners must not, for any reason, be neglected and not be neglected in any segment. This is a battle that Desus will never give up, never and never. When we talk about financial plans, we also strongly advocate the establishment of the so-called reserve demographic fund, and we look forward to its early implementation in practice as well. This is a guarantee for the smooth payment and sustainability of the pension fund. The challenges ahead of us, which appear to be in the form of a negative demographic picture, require the immediate adoption of a law on that fund. For us, for Members and Members of Desus, this is the most effective tool for planning and spending resources on our pensioners, current and future. For the same reasons, we have rejected the recommendations on the parent's working body and believe that we have done the right thing. We also believe that the current government does not need recommendations on how to deal with the preparation of budgets in the country. You really don't have to invent hot water, sometimes you just have to turn on the boiler. The Public Finance Act, which will further strengthen the budgetary policy area, will soon be on the table. We have already put in place very important budgetary documents, such as the Country Budgeting Framework Decision, the National Reform Programme, the Stability Programme and it could probably be listed. It is essential, however, that we follow our principles, which are also enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. The planning of tax revenues began with the effective or more efficient collection of public taxes and the adoption of a comprehensive tax restructuring plan. As the first successful action – I believe it is not the last – it has also proved to be the introduction of tax boxes. The trend continues; effective governance of public finances is and will continue to remain a constant and priority of this country. In short, in our view, to conclude slowly, the recommendations are superfluous. I am not saying that they are malicious, that we understand each other correctly, but at times we find it difficult to understand that they are entirely sincere and constructive interests of the applicants to improve the current situation. However, we estimate that there is only some kind of populism, which is also a complete waste of time in the final stage. I believe that we will work together, however, and we will also do what is, I am sure, in the interest of all of us, and this is the decent life of all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In discussing the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of paid taxes and contributions and the public goods offered by the State for these taxes and contributions, we would like to stress in particular that the situation of the economy and the number of people employed and, of course, the wages they receive for the work they have done here is a very important starting point. This is crucial for sufficient contributions, both for pension and health and the state budget and local budgets, from which we allocate resources for education, social security, health, investment and so on. In this context, the relationship between the economy, which must have a period of bank support, the attitude towards state property, and also the tax policy that the State forms in order to cover the needs and interests of the people. In this debate, we want the Social Democrats to prevail over the belief that Slovenia believes in the power of public and common, and that Slovenians and Slovenians want to live in a country where we work together to reduce differences between wealthy and wealthy, and then the middle class to those who live on the edge or even under the edge of a decent life, despite 40 years of hard work. When we are trying to analyse this situation of people and also this relationship with regard to taxes, contributions and servicing needs, however, we need to look back at the time of the economic and financial crisis, which has shown to us to a large extent how we manage all these factors, i.e. from the economy, banks, state assets to service the needs of people through tax policy. The fact is that almost 60 000 jobs were lost during the economic and financial crisis in Slovenia, more specifically during the period 2009 to 2012, the recession cost 59,000 jobs. You must be prepared for such shocks. But you can be prepared at a time of growth or well - being, which is when you need to make savings so that you can cope with the shock that has actually occurred during this period. I think it's right that we critically assess the situation in which we came into this shock. As we look at this situation, we can see that, for example, the contribution rate to the pension allowance, which was 15.5% in 1995, decreased to 11.7% in 1996 and 8.85% in 1997 as much as it still is today. The current Minister of Finance, if so revealed or shown this period, intervened in the rate of payment to the pension fund. All of this was then, of course, replaced by inflows to the budget, from a new tax on paid salaries. However, there was a significant change in the revenue to the budget, not to the pension allowance, and indirectly from the budget covered this surplus that was generated in the pension register. However, the problems arise below when the next government – if we touch the financial ministers – was led by the Ministry of Finance or by Mr Bajuk to reduce or abolish the tax on salaries paid, so that the tax on salaries paid was abolished in 2006-2008 and thus, of course, the income cut off in the budget. In addition, the tax rate for corporate income tax and income tax decreased at the time. According to the Ministry of Finance, the total negative impact on the public treasury was 2.5% of gross domestic product and an additional 0.5% of GDP can be detected due to tax relief from legal persons' income. Inflows have therefore decreased dramatically during the period when economic growth was taking place. This was followed by substantial funds to be allocated to the resolution of the bank hole, as much as EUR 5.2 billion, where we are in debt covering this bank hole. If we also add to this the consequences of inadequate resolution of the problem of the deleted and also the consequences of inadequate resolution of the foreign exchange savers of the Ljubljana Bank, we are, of course, wondering today and finding that we cannot finance normal social reproduction through the public financial inflows and, therefore, especially, are being squeezed by people. People actually had at least or almost nothing to do with it. When we are looking for solutions – because it is also in this paper, which was presented today by the applicant for discussion, especially the comparison between Slovenia and Austria – it is right to try to make this comparison on the basis of data in Eurostat for 2014, where we see that the share of public financial inflows in the gross domestic product in Austria was 49.9% and in Slovenia was 45%. In Slovenia, therefore, the public financial inflow is lower than in Austria by 4.9% of GDP or 1.8 billion euros. This is always the amount that we are hunting in Slovenia, when we are wondering how to establish an effective provision of the deficit and how to draw up a good budget. When we look at the situation of taxation in Austria and Slovenia, we also find that the key difference is that the capital in Austria is taxed at 25% and in Slovenia at 17%, but if we consider additional reliefs, we will even get to 11% of the capital tax rate in Slovenia. So this difference is one that must certainly be analysed if we want to increase the fiscal inflow to a comparable level, as in Austria. It should also be said that while the average capital taxation in the European Union is 22,6 %. As one of the proposals to somehow reduce this margin between taxation of capital and over-average taxation of personal earnings, we propose an intervention in the income scale, in a way that raises general relief, so that people with incomes below the minimum monthly wage will not pay income. We also propose raising the upper limit of the second income class – 27% – from the current €18 000 260 income to €30 000 of annual income, thus increasing the number of people who pay lower income. We are also proposing the introduction of a new 34% rate income scale, between 30,000 annual incomes and 50,000 annual incomes, where we are proposing a 34% rate of taxation. Then more income tax than 50,000% with a 41% rate. Today we have such a situation that all of the 18000 260-year revenues up to 72 000 years of income are taxed at 41% of the tax rate. In this way, we want to increase the income of individuals with a minimum wage and reduce the burden on the middle class, which certainly includes young engineers who are still in need and need in Slovenia. In addition, the procedure for establishing a demographic fund financed by the assets held by Slovenia must be accelerated. This demographic fund is intended to guarantee decent pensions in the long run, thus also deploring the budget from which we are currently providing pension funds, and this is one of those important developmental developments that we must implement as soon as possible. Of course, there is also a need to continue to provide accessible public and quality health care, as only timely and adequate treatment of people also results in lower costs, both in the economy and in the health department itself. It is also very important to allow access to education, so public education must be maintained at all levels. Knowledge alone can keep us ahead of others, because exports and the competitiveness of the economy are what also proves that power with knowledge and a competitive product is back on foreign markets, and that is why Slovenia is creating a very envious level of revenue at this moment due to a successful copy. This needs to be maintained and this can be maintained mainly through the development of knowledge and the maintenance of the public education system. This is something that we believe is crucial, that we will be able to have the most appropriate distribution of taxes and contributions paid and that we will share what we create in a way that will make the vast majority of people in Slovenia truly happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye! The recommendations before us come from three thesaurus. First of all, Slovenia has over-average high taxes. Secondly, Slovenia has a sub-average quality of public services. Thirdly, the government of Janez Janša was the most successful Slovenian government. All three of these are missing, but the first two are significantly more dangerous than the third. Even among the young economists, it would be difficult to find an advocate of Janshanoma, if I may say so, because in Janš's economic miracle, about a quarter of the voters who vote for SDS and NSI believe. But the other two are more dangerous, as more and more citizens believe the claims of high taxes on the one hand and the poor social state on the other. This forgets that all reforms of the tax system and the social state have been socially unfair in the last 10 years. Since even some unions are enthusiastic about the passwords on reducing labour burden, it must be made clear that the reduction in taxes will not increase the wages of workers but only the income of managers and capital owners. This is what all past experiences show. It must be made clear that the public health system, public education and social protection systems, in order to reduce resources, will be no more of a quality than they are today, but more of the opposite. Poverty of public systems will not benefit the inhabitants of this country, but exclusively private providers of services and commercial social security. Today, almost all capitalist societies in Europe have severe development and social problems, especially if they are pushed to the periphery such as Slovenia. It is not true, however, that the quality of public services is very low and bad, as is often said. One of the best performance criteria of the social state is the index of human development, and here Slovenia works very well. Although GDP is only 35th in the world, according to the Human Development Index 25, it is not only in front of all Eastern European countries, but also in front of all Southern European countries. In the United Left, of course, we are the biggest critics of our social protection system, but we always warn at the same time that the picture is not as black as it is often shown. In 2014, for example, we had 17.7% of socially excluded children, while in Germany there were 19.3% and in Austria there were 23.3%. Therefore, our social protection system does not work optimally, but works even better than in many developed countries. The applicants have also highlighted our health system as a negative case, but it must be said that its results are nevertheless solid. The life expectancy in Slovenia is practically the same as in Germany and Austria, with a girl born in Slovenia last year living even longer than her German or Austrian line. The infant mortality rate is 1.8 in Austria 3 and 3.2 in Germany, so we are better off by this indicator. In doing so, it should be stressed that we spend $2085 per capita on health and that Austria spends $5,427 on health, almost three times as much as Slovenia. As a recent analysis of the Slovenian health system has shown, our system is effective especially at the primary level, which means that our public health homes are more effective and effective than the Austrian concessionaires' system. When we discuss the size and effectiveness of our public sector, I can only repeat the findings of Mark Pahor, professor of statistics at Ljubljana's Faculty of Economics, which says: "The Slovenian public sector is dullly averaged for time and space in which Slovenia is. The Slovenian citizen gets from his country just as much as he pays for it, no more, no less." Therefore, there is no basis for arguing that our public sector is less effective than the public sectors of comparable countries. Of course, there are reserves, but not where the proponents see them. The largest reserve is in the healthcare system, but not in general, but in supplementary health insurance, which is the joint point of the United Left and the Coalition. We agree that already around 20% of the funds we raise with "voluntary" premiums are used by commercial insurance companies for marketing, dividend payments and capital reserves. If these premiums were collected by the Health Insurance Office, they would obtain at least 50 million per year for additional health services. Only if we reach out to supplementary health insurance. Of course, we should cut down on the interests of commercial insurance companies, and this is not what the proponents are willing to do. Even the government coalition is unlikely to do so, although, as I have already pointed out, the abolition of health insurance is a promise in the coalition agreement. The problem of all Slovenian governments or the political class in general is that it works in the interests of capital. Low taxes are in the interest of capital. Contrary to what the proponents explain, direct taxes are not the resources that the state would take away from its employees from their earnings. Direct taxes are the resources that the state manages to recover from capital owners. Whether the tax is charged from the wages, property or profits of the company is secondary. Anyone who doesn't believe can do a simple test. The first Janša government abolished the tax on paid wages, but this did not raise net wages, but only business revenues. The only effect for workers was that they had to work longer today. Taxes on paid salaries have been introduced as compensation for the reduction of contributions to pension insurance and greater than the hole in the pension register, longer to work, and for ever smaller pensions. It should therefore be made clear that in Slovenia, income reductions have been under way for the best paid people in the country for 10 years and the reduction of direct taxes, i.e. those paid by companies. In this way, the fairness of our tax system has been substantially reduced, and income and contributions are the only taxes that apply the principle of each contributing according to its capabilities. All other taxes are socially unfair. Slovenia is far from above average high taxes. In fact, we are good at 3% of the points below the EU average and are essential for Austria or Germany. We have over-average high taxes on consumption and above-average low taxes on capital, which is an anomaly. In 2012, Slovenia was in the last place in the EU after the share of capital taxes and, on a tax basis, in the last place. If we look at the data for last year, we see that we have not collected even 100 million incomes from capital revenues and that of all billions of property values, less than 200 million taxes on assets have been raised in the budget. On the other hand, we paid 1.5 billion excise duties or 5.3 billion taxes on goods and services. It must be clear to everyone who is in the interest of such a tax system. 10% of the richest Slovenians, who own 35% of all assets, on the other hand, we have 20% of the poorest, who own only 1.2% of this property. Finally, I must add that the lowering of taxes will not increase employment, but rather reduce employment. As a result of the decline in public consumption, GDP is declining more than it is increasing due to tax cuts. However, long-term employment has nothing to do with taxes, but with the management and management of the economy. Looking east, we see Bulgaria and Romania having practically the lowest taxes in the EU, but also record rates of poverty, unemployment and blackmail. The proposal states that unemployment has decreased significantly in 2005 to 2008, which is true, but has not decreased due to tax reforms. It has decreased due to the 13 billion loans that our companies have rented abroad. As a result of these credits, our crisis was deeper than elsewhere in the EU and lasted longer, while all 66,000 jobs created between 2005 and 2008 have disappeared and up to 20 000 additional jobs have disappeared by 2013. I therefore hope that the coalition Members will think a little bit about where they are taking the recommendations of those that came into force in 2004-2008 and then again in 2012-2013. In particular, it should be borne in mind that last year we recorded a huge surplus in the balance of payments, and it is high time that this surplus by taxation of capital and property should be used for the common benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u19	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Good afternoon. Slovenia needs citizens who are looking for solutions to the problems, because these are quite something. We need experts who, with their knowledge, will find solutions and thus truly contribute to the greater well-being of all citizens. The key factors in finding a solution to the problems we have and for development are the skills and motivation of individuals. The education system is one that should equip our citizens adequately to realize their ideas that solve our problems. The economic system should offer them an environment in which they can also realize their ideas and talents. The efficiency and attractiveness of the individual economic system in implementing the idea depends significantly on the tax system. Unfortunately, the tax system in Slovenia is not attractive, so we estimate that it needs to be substantially changed. The motivation for paying taxes depends, of course, on the amount of taxes. Higher than taxes, more people avoid paying taxes. There are several questions in terms of bill or no bill, more fictitious tax optimisation and more. Our goal, therefore, must be that as many people as possible pay taxes. We need to strengthen our awareness that every employee has a double benefit for this country. The country receives payments from the employee to the pension, health and other cash registers, while at the same time it does not have to be paid for by a variety of social transfers. The higher the number of people working and working, the lower taxes can be. Now, specifically. A Slovenian citizen with a gross salary, I stress a gross salary, EUR 800 pays EUR 177 for social and health security, and a worker with a gross salary of EUR 600 pays EUR 354. Since contributions are accounted for as a percentage of gross wages, it is clear that citizens with higher wages provide more budget inflows, which is also fair. Although two citizens contribute different amounts to the budget, on the other hand they are entitled to the same public services of the State. This ensures solidarity. The rights and set of services offered by the State to its citizens are not boundless, so it is important that the taxes collected are proportionate to what the State is offering us. Unfortunately, Slovenia and our government take much more from some citizens than they offer in return. The current Slovenian tax system is based on the principle that you can practically take the person you can take as much as you can. Of course, that's not fair. Those who work in black do not take the country away from the wealthy who can be tax-optimized through tax havens, the state takes too little and then suffers from honest citizens whom the country takes in addition to their share for those who do not contribute anything or contribute too little. If we compare the different taxation of labour, profits and property between countries, we can find in OECD studies that Slovenia is very competitive in the taxation of profits and real estate and is not competitive in the taxation of labour, so wages. Taxation of profits and property in Slovenia is simple or domestically said compared to other developed countries, while taxation of wages is one of the highest among developed countries. Again, a worker who receives €800 in his transaction account costs a employer €1342. You must add at least €70 for lunch and a few more €10 for transport costs. The total cost for the employer, who has an employee who pays EUR 800, is at least EUR 1,000 400. To compare, let us look at the situation in Ireland. In Ireland, if the employer gave the worker a thousand 400 euros, it would receive a net salary of a thousand 37 euros or so. If we draw the line, an employee in Ireland gets more than €237 for the same cost of the employer on his own account, which is how much less the country takes in Ireland. Slovenia is first in the taxation of people who earn slightly more, but among those who earn more than €70,000, it is first in the 86th developed countries. Such high taxation is mainly caused by brain drain and numerous and innovative tax optimizations. These are, for example, specific figures of Slovenian competitiveness. Therefore, if we look at average labour taxation in Slovenia, this is 42.3% and 35.9% among the OECD Member States. If we look over our thumb like that, about half our salary is taken by the state. What we get in the account is about half what the employer pays for us. The result of high wage taxation is, of course, more black work, more cash payments per hand and more production movements to countries with lower labour taxation. And that's what we all lose in the end. First, the country, because it receives lower revenues from all its cash registers and then from all citizens, because the country offers us less or we receive worse services or we have to pay higher taxes. In Novi Slovenije we have therefore prepared a set of concrete measures specifically for lower labour taxes, i.e. wages. Our key guide was to increase net wages for workers and not burden the economy at the same time. We think we have found an interesting solution or innovation. This is the only combination and solution that can at the same time increase domestic consumption and not endanger jobs. We have prepared a measure whereby €3,000 300 of your annual earnings have not been paid, which in particular means that 275 euros of your monthly earnings would not be paid. This would mean that, in particular, people with a minimum wage would get as much as €50 more in the account, another additional minimum wage in one year. Of course, the cost for the economy would not change. We are also aware of the loss of budgetary revenue due to lower taxes, but of course we believe that this could be replaced by new jobs and higher economic growth. In Novi Slovenije we have also prepared an amendment to the Income Act, which generally increases from EUR 3 000 to EUR 7 000. This proposal would increase the net salaries of employees, which our Ministry of Finance has been promising for quite some time, but it does not. At the time of adoption of this proposal, consideration could also be given to reducing wages for civil servants, as if the adoption of a higher general relief would also result in higher net wages, meaning that gross wages would be reduced and thus pressure on public expenditure. Too much income is also associated with the problem of so-called migrant workers or those working from the north-eastern end of Slovenia in neighbouring Austria. By adopting this law, which would increase the overall relief, their problem would be relatively simple and constitutionally acceptable. It seems to us that an increase in general income relief is a necessary measure to normalise the tax system and to increase taxpayers' confidence in the country. The current high taxation of labour or wages has encouraged many to leave the country. Every year 15 thousand people leave Slovenia, half of whom are under 35. It is a huge amount of brain drain, but it is not yet felt because at the same time about the same number of people have moved to Slovenia. Of course, this is a huge loss for the country, since the country has invested a great deal in all these 15,000 citizens leaving Slovenia for their education and training, when they should use this knowledge in Slovenia and should create new jobs for them, leaving the country. This is how Slovenia loses many development engineers and other successful researchers serving their bread in Western Europe and North America. By limiting and reducing wage taxes, we would help those of whom the country is most expected to contribute to the creation of new jobs. In this respect, it would also be worth mentioning the development cap, which has already been overrun in Slovenia by a huge amount of ink, but it is clear that a sober and normal debate on the development cap is difficult to develop in Slovenia, as many abuse it for political struggle and can raise political points. Discussions on the introduction of the development cap which, by the way, virtually all our neighbours, and especially the countries with which they compete, are more or less always at the level of the demagogic parole, if the development cap is to be a gift to the rich. Really? Let's just look at the specifics. For the development cap does not reduce solidarity, but increases justice and prevents the brain from escaping. The wing that a developmental cap is a gift to the rich just doesn't hold. Why not? Because the rich in Slovenia already have a development cap today, it is important to ask why we do not also allow it to be the middle class on which we are most counting. Why are the rich in Slovenia already wearing a development cap? The Institute of Economic Research points out that for private or independent entrepreneurs, the basis for calculating the contributions is a profit created that substantially replaces the salary and is calculated as the difference between income and expenditure. According to the profit created, private individuals, i.e. espouses, are assigned to 8 classes that determine how much contributions they will pay. According to the legislation, this base is limited to €42 000,859. Thus, the Espeian people today have a development cap, which is set at just under €43 000. On the other hand, in Slovenia we also use a mechanism to pay minimum contributions, which is used for owners and co-owners of companies that are also employed in their companies. These are limited liability companies or so-called parts where owners can charge themselves a low gross salary, which is charged with contributions and the rest of income is paid in the form of much less taxed profits. What I want to tell you is that those who are more wealthy in Slovenia already have a development cap. Therefore, it would be nice to hear Slovenian socialists say why they oppose this development cap. It would be interesting to hear, in particular, their answers, why they could have a wealthier and richer development cap, not their employees or, if I went to the level of the parole, then I could ask why the development cap gave for the rich but not for the middle class. That's hard to understand. Everywhere across Europe, the development cap is so high that it still provides solidarity and prevents the brain from escaping. For example, in Austria, the development cap is set at EUR 47,000 and several cents, for example, in Slovenia in 2010, during the Pahor government, thinking about putting the development cap on a little less than EUR 37 000 of annual income. That's when the unions broke the idea. For example, if a development cap were to be placed in Slovenia today on about the same number as they have in Austria, this would mean that in Slovenia at least 20,000 people would pay lower taxes on wages. It is clear that no one likes taxes, but taxes do finance all the activities and things that this country does and offers. Slovenia is a social state under the Constitution, and it is therefore crucial that the tax collection system is such as to ensure solidarity and at the same time fairness. Solidarity in tax collection is ensured in such a way that those with higher incomes or greater assets also pay higher taxes. However, justice in tax collection is ensured only by ensuring that the amount of tax collected is at least approximately proportional to what taxpayers receive from the State. This is not the case today, so we sincerely hope that today's debate will contribute to ensuring that such tax and economic themes are regularly on our agendas, so that things do not just stay in words, but that things will take effect as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. For a very long time there has been talk of tax reform. The opposition parties are preparing proposals for tax reforms, it is heard that some coalition parties are also preparing proposals for tax reform, but there are no concrete results and implementations by adopting legislation in this Parliament. I think that Slovenia is looking forward to some tax reform that will improve the business environment and make it possible to create more jobs, but I believe that this is the goal of all of us. I hope and wish that today's debate will also contribute in this direction, although unfortunately, in the old and established practice, the coalition will withdraw all the recommendations proposed in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u21	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for recommendations before us touches the state budget, the revenue and expenditure sides. Given the situation in our public finances, today's debate should be constructive and, in my opinion, should lead to some common conclusions. As is already the practice in this composition of the National Assembly, we will probably be witnessing again the betting of at least two of the largest parties in the National Assembly, of course without any conclusions. The State budget is the most important act prepared by the Government and adopted by the coalition. The most important reason is because the entire government policy is actually visible through the budget. To this day, this government, the government of Mira Cerar, has shown nothing new. The sails on the result of previous governments and I have a feeling that it will only wake up when we are close to the bottom again, but I am talking about economic growth. The latest forecasts of European and global institutions are alarmingly lowering the forecasts for Slovenia. Regardless of the favourable situation in the state budget - by the way, this government has around €700 million more available than ours - the government should take action and adopt structural changes and not just small cosmetic adjustments. That's true, it shows us a structural deficit. To make it easier for us to imagine, to work hard, and also to graph. The structural deficit is supposed to tell us how healthy our public finances are. The structural deficit, simply stated, is a deficit that is cleared of the effects of good economic activity or economic recession. The fact is that Slovenia recorded the biggest structural deficit in 2008. The second fact is that the government of Mira Cerar will do nothing. It's not just words, it's numbers that confirm it. You can look at the German budget and the German structural deficit, and you will see what healthy public finances mean. Too bad you're missing your chance. You've had a lot, in your hands for a long, long time you've got a positive situation, a positive economic activity. So far we've lost two years, but you still have time and opportunity to grab things and start working in the right direction. The fact is that the Slovenian tax burden on average does not deviate from the European tax burden. That's what the data proves, that's not what we're finding. However, we deviate from two key tax burdens: the first is the taxation of work where we retire upwards, and the second is the taxation of property where we retire downwards. That is why we do not need some large and expensive analysis to figure out what needs to be done, but just an action. Labour taxation should be reduced and property taxation could be increased. The unloading of the so-called 13th salary or goddess in this term has already been referred to from the beginning, and after two years we still have no solution. Even in the case of taxes on consumption or VAT, Slovenia does not deviate from the European average. However, I must remind you that VAT was raised during the crisis and during the crisis. The government of Mira Cerar has passed the law forever without valid arguments. As we say, given the European average and our neighbouring countries, this is not a problem, but, dear colleagues, on the other hand, when you have passed this law forever, you could or, better still, have to relieve the work at that time, because this increase in VAT would bring you some 100 million euros in revenue. Therefore, this should be compensated by a reduction in labour taxation. Since we are no longer in the crisis, which you like to repeat many times, this should be an urgent step. That would be the only real step and that's what we had in mind. But you have not, and you have simply lost the opportunity to further stimulate economic growth. These are the reasons why the European and global institutions' forecast of economic activity is falling. As far as expenditure is concerned, I fully agree and support the idea set out in the recommendations that Slovenia should immediately introduce a targeted budget to the results. I am sure that the Ministry of Finance is prepared to do so, and the problem is that you are not prepared for this by the politicians. Take a look at the debates in the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the budget, everything is interested only in the index or the increase to the previous year. How many times have we dealt with the objectives that we should set for a specific project, for a specific programme and, of course, with this money, then achieve these objectives? Never. Despite the fact that a colleague from SMC has stated that we have already started this project and that we have specific objectives, I suggest that she take another look at the state budget, and next time she can tell how many objectives are set there. Nothing. Nothing. But if they are, they've been the same for five years. How many times have you or Members looked at the indicators that are included in the national budget projects? It's rare. And I think that we should have some interest in this, especially how much and what goals we will achieve for the taxpayer's money. This is practically not what politics is dealing with. Why? Because in this new system, the targets of the targeted budget would make it significantly harder for people to plant flowers, how much money is guaranteed for something, but after the deadline or after the project has expired, they should show whether these objectives have been achieved or not. However, we obviously lack political will for this step. In this case, however, the Government of Mir Cerar is not departing from past governments, but it is true that you are currently, respected colleagues and colleagues, in power and are also responsible for inaction in this area. All too often, you have been asking for the answer that previous governments have also acted in such a way that previous governments have not done so and that if they have violated rules and laws, so can you. These are your answers. Then why didn't you tell people before the elections that you would do the same as the governments before you? Why did you promise something completely new, something completely different? There are more and more old, experienced faces with you. A package of surprises is one big disappointment, people on the street say, and I answer them myself that you still have time to make your election promises come true. But you will have to radically change the way you work and behave, but not everything is lost, roll up your sleeves and action, we will help you do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members in the proposal for a recommendation. A representative of the proposer, mag. Marko Pogačnik, then another representative of the proposer and then Mr Jan Škoberne. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The introduction should start in a different way than to repeat that I really do not understand the coalition MPs and Members of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus, that they voted against the recommendation they have in their coalition agreement. This is probably only reasonable to you and no one else. Dear Secretary of State, in your address, you have given the impression that the applicant is wrong, that from 2001 onwards the draft budget has been formulated and adopted programmely and that specific objectives and indicators are set for each policy, as well as for stronger programmes and sub-programmes. Dear Secretary of State, you are also part of this government and also part of this government coalition. I therefore ask you why you then have written on the 22nd page of the Coalition Treaty: "To increase the efficiency of spending of limited budgetary resources, we will change the way the country's budget is drawn up, presented and implemented into the so-called programme budget." You explain that in Slovenia we have a budget at this level since 2001. However, you have written in the coalition contract that you will change this and that you will pursue these goals. You really don't know what your left hand does, what your right hand does. You don't know what you have in your coalition contract. It is important that you vote differently than the opposition proposes. That's your main goal. I am still convinced that this meeting is more than justifiable and in the SDS Group we are convinced that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would have to receive a report once a year from the Ministry of Finance or from the FURS where taxes go, what taxes were spent on and, in particular, in order to be transparent. Dear Secretary of State, you are pleading, as is the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, that it is an integral budget and that these matters cannot be presented. I don't believe it. We have huge taxes in Slovenia and burdens that are paid on purpose. In the case of registration of a motor vehicle, for example, in the case of technical checks, a road duty shall be paid. I expect in this report that we propose to say: We have collected so much and so much from road charges annually, and in this year we have done this and that, we have restored so many roads or not. Let's see. The report can also show how many kindergartens and how many elementary schools have been built, as it would also follow what happened in previous years and what the current government is doing. What happens to VAT collection? What's going on with the oil derivatives collected? What is happening to the collected excise duty on tobacco products, alcohol duties? Dearly noted, most of the taxes collected by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are used to finance public administration and probably for various agencies. Dear Secretary of State, how many agencies do I have in Slovenia with one or two employees? How many of these agencies are there and how many annual costs are there for these agencies? I think it would be easy to do one column — a list of taxes, how much taxes were collected, what happened to those taxes, and what the existing government spent them on. We are convinced that these tax burdens in Slovenia are significantly too high for what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia get back. Many times in Slovenia we sell the story that we have a free health system. That's not true. Every employee pays health contributions. We have already said that an average wage worker pays more than EUR 2 000 400 per year for health insurance. And what does he get for it? Get the waiting types. Do not sell stories that the Slovenian public health system is better than the concessionary health system in Austria. The one who explains this has never been to Austria or has never visited any private clinic. In Austria, private and public health work very well together. In Austria and other neighbouring countries, there are probably significantly smaller waiting lines than we do. A worker with an average salary and an employer pays annually close to EUR 10 000 of contributions, various charges. Why is this money being spent, a respected secretary of state and a coalition? Why don't you want to show it? Why is this money being spent? An average wage worker works exclusively for the country until the month of July. By 31.7. in Slovenia, the worker works for the country, i.e. 7 months, then comes 5 months when we work for our pocket. Wouldn't it be fair to tell you once where those taxes go? I think you are testing the Slovenian economy as well as Slovenian citizens and citizens, which may still be a burden. Dear Secretary of State, you were also in the mandate of the Pahor's Government 2009 and something happened at the time, as Minister Križanič then began to raise the excise duty on oil derivatives. Extreme. During the first month of your reign, you have raised your excise duty twice, and you said that we would have more revenue in the budget. Dear Secretary of State and Coalition, I propose that you take a look at Laffer's economic curve, which speaks of the relationship between the amount of taxes and the amount of contributions that come into the budget. From this you will be able to see that the country's revenue by increasing taxes does not mean an increase in revenue for the Treasury. This was extremely well seen at the move of your government at the time, and you, too, were the secretary of state when you said you would increase excise duties on oil derivatives and you would have higher revenues in the budget. We didn't have any. Dear Secretary of State, we always remind you that the Government of Mir Cerar does not implement the appropriate excise policy. Excise is higher from year to year in tobacco products, alcohol, petroleum derivatives, excise revenue from month to month; excise revenue from year to year is lower. This Laffer curve has been well used by at least the best President of the United States of America, Ronald Reagan, who then reduced taxes from 70% to 30%. At that time, in those two mandates that the Republicans and Ronald Reagan had had, America grew. And you don't take that into account. And you're charging from day to day. Foreign investors are withdrawing as a result. Today we can read in Croatian media that prestigious brands Jaguar and Land Rover open a centre in Zagreb for a complete southeastern region. Two prestigious stamps. Why didn't they open it in Slovenia? Because the environment is not interesting to them because they are too heavy. Do you know how many new jobs and probably above average wages the opening of such a centre means? However, foreign investors from Slovenia are fleeing. We can read every six months for a year how foreign investors retreat. The last case is Paloma's. The buyer gave up because the court had ruled for more than six months. I think it is fair for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to finally once a year have an insight into what the Government is doing and where this money is going with those taxes we are paying. I really don't understand the United Left in my position. In their position, they spoke as if they were pouring honey and milk in Slovenia and, on the other hand, predicting a revolution. I really don't understand them. The Coalition, I think it would make sense today that this debate of ours would be constructive and that we would also try to find a solution to Slovenia, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for a higher and better standard. To really try to figure out on the basis of some reports where these taxes are lost in this way. Is it appropriate in Slovenia to have over 250 agencies with one or two or three employees? Why are the excise duties on oil derivatives so high? Why in Austria, which is one hour from here, is the letter of oil between 10 and 15 cents cheaper than in Slovenia? What's going on with all the contributions hanging on the power grid? Why do we need a SODO agency that spends so much and so much? Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u25	The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat. The government also called.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think it is right that we live in a democratic state, to exchange our views. But I'm constantly and again disappointed that we're completely ineffective, and that's all of us 90, maybe even with the government. We're ineffective. We exchange different views and then we run out of energy or mechanisms, how do we now just combine these views and bring them to some least common denominator, and then here, in this house, concrete solutions for this country's better competitiveness. I would like to respond to some of the views of the groups of Members. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that Slovenia has progressed through the competitiveness scale implemented by the Swiss Institute for Management Development between 61 countries. You don't think we're looking forward to this now, or we're insatiable with this coalition. On the contrary. Of course we're not happy. Do you know what our ambition is? The ambition of New Slovenia is that Slovenia will once – but not in some far future – among the first five countries of these 61. Because we have potential. We have potential. We must not lose it, we must not have an active blackmail policy. The fact is that we are sort of competing with the countries at the bottom of this classification. We are not satisfied with this in New Slovenia. That success is actually due to some kind of compulsion to demand from the European Union, analysts say. I don't want to use the word coercion, but, as the analysts say. I do not feel forced by the EU institution because the EU is also Slovenia or Slovenia is the EU. For now, enough about these competitiveness, but I can say more. But the key question is who actually contributed to better competitiveness and who raised us here the most. Yeah, just the economy. At the time of the deepest recession in Nova Slovenija we claimed that Slovenia would be pulled out of recession by economists, not politicians, even less unionists. And that's what happened. Why not give these economists, then more oxygen to economic operators? But we firmly believe that money does not grow on a tree, as it may sometimes be among the lines says Comrade Luke. I don't want to replicate it to him, maybe more to those who wrote his debate. It is always the government's fault 2004-2008 and always mentions Dr. Andre Bajuk's late Minister of Finance. Oh, my God. If there are no other excuses, then in this country they do run between milk and milk. That we then abolished the tax on paid wages – because it was madness within the European Union. The great madness that we had this tax, we gradually eliminated it. But of course, opponents will never say that we had a practically balanced budget of the country for two years, 2007 and 2008. And how long was it then? Approximately 22% of GDP, or 20 billion euros. Where are we today? We have to multiply by factor four. True, one of the first measures of the then government was to reduce the tax rate on capital. Why? Because capital is a bird's roof and it's getting out. Where does 8 of the 12 richest Slovenians work today? Taxes are paid outside of Slovenia and there. That's what we're worried about. Here we expect from the coalition and the government, which have all this expertise, if it is also necessary for external advisers, that, however, in the field of tax legislation, we introduce the necessary tax reforms for Slovenia also some innovative principles. Now I'm going to say something that you might laugh at, but let's say income is only one euro for over 85 years. We may get some rich people into Slovenia, but that's just the way it is, from the sleeve. Of course, you have many institutions that can bring the right solutions to this National Assembly. However, if you do not have sufficient support for proper tax solutions in the coalition, come ask the right block of the opposition. We have quite a few good examples in Europe. And maybe I'll start in Great Britain, which is not in the euro area. In 2014, the British government began to inform its citizens about how to spend the money it somehow took from them. To do something similar with us, we may not be able to expect it, but it would be good. It would be good. As it is said, Britain is not part of the euro area, but is also trying to curb the appetites of the public sector by presenting its tax administration why public money is being spent in a form that is understandable to every taxpayer. They show how ten thousand pounds of taxpayer money is spent. That would be good. We know where the principal taxes and contributions go. For pensions and public sector salaries. As far as pensions are concerned, our pension system has long not been sustainable, but the coalition says that by 2020 there will be no pension reform. Or is it normal for us to take about 11.5 billion out of the state budget from 2009 to 2015 and put it in the pension register. It's not normal, because the pension fund should be kept alone. What is dramatic and worrying, ladies and gentlemen, is that today there are only 1.37 active employees working for one pensioner, and this ratio goes too fast and dramatically down. Of course, we also have some recipes called specific recommendations for Slovenia for 2016 from the European Commission of 18 May. This should actually be some kind of government programme. Some of this is done to be honest and objective, as always, perhaps at too little speed, too slow. Here the European Commission has written down four recommendations for which, a respected coalition, you have support in New Slovenia. With measures per day, we'll back it up. It is, of course, a matter of further consolidation of public finances. Here we have clear recommendations that a fiscal adjustment of 0.6% of GDP should be made in 2016. This is also written for 2017, but when I go to study the text, on the fourth page it says that the fiscal adjustment in 2017 must be 1% of GDP, so the European Commission also writes a little confused. It warns us that we don't have a fiscal world yet, which means that the fiscal rule doesn't work. What's going on in this area? Next, in consultation with the social partners, Slovenia should take action to increase the employability of low-skilled and older workers, including through targeted lifelong learning measures and activation measures. The funding conditions for credit-efficient enterprises should be improved, including facilitated sustainable resolution of bad loans and access to alternative sources of funding. Slovenia should ensure the proper implementation of the Company’s strategy for carrying out bank claims. We are warned that Slovenia must prepare and implement a reform of the long-term care and health system. European institutions have been recommending this for quite some time, and we are deaf. I don't know what's gonna happen to this. By the end of 2017, a reform of the pension system must be adopted. The champion of Desus said it's not a chance, so we have, and we'll still have, an ever-increasing number of pensioners with poorly low pensions. Today we have over 300,000 pensioners with 20 euros and less per day. Slovenia must also take measures to modernise public administration and reduce the administrative burden on businesses. It seems to me that I am reading the programme of New Slovenia, so once again I can honestly tell the coalition that you have the support of New Slovenia for these recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u27	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance has the floor, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman. Prepare Mr. Franc Laj and Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The coalition contract is not a government document, so please do not expect me to respond as a representative of the government at this meeting to the statements in the coalition contract, but I will talk about the government's programme and the government's activities. If I skip to the last topic referred to by Mr Horvat on the specific recommendations of the European Commission, these are based on this year's Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, which the Government sent to the European Commission in April. All these activities, which the European Commission recommends to Slovenia as priorities, are also listed and implemented in the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. It is true, however, that all reform activities do not take place in the National Assembly alone or first. The adoption of appropriate legislative frameworks is only one part of these activities to be carried out. Furthermore, when we are talking about the contribution of public finances or the Government to the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, I insist on the claim that I have already repeatedly pointed out that it is the primary task of the Government to ensure a stable public financial environment. This stability is guaranteed. This stability reduces the remuneration for Slovenian bonds, which not only affects the debt or service of the country's debt, but also affects the terms and conditions of the private sector's indebtedness. And not only on the terms of the debt, but on the whole terms of the business. I estimate that this concern for fiscal stability is a fundamental objective, which we must follow further. So far, this direction has led us to reduce the surplus deficit below 3% of GDP. We are following this objective by further reducing the public financial deficit, so that by 2020 we can achieve a sustainable balance of public finances. This difference, which Member Horvat pointed to in his debate on the European Commission document, also points to one of the achievements of this government. We have achieved that the European Commission has begun to think about the meaning of the methodology by which it assesses the effectiveness of individual public financial policies. In fact, the European Commission has confirmed Slovenia's view that something is wrong here and has therefore reduced the requirement for a level of public financial effort for 2017 from 1% of GDP to 0.6%. All these efforts have not yet been completed, but they are continuing. They continue to interact bilaterally with the Member States of the European Union, with the representatives of the European Commission, in other working bodies and ministerial assemblies within the institutions of the European Union. Let me touch on the following topics, tax systems and contributions. We still need to distinguish that social security contributions are a reflection of the social security system that we want to have in the country. The social security system in that country is established by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act, which are two basic systems left at home. Speaking of the amount of contributions, it is inaccurate to speak of the country collecting something from the employee or the taxpayer for the payment of contributions. No, the commitment to work on its income contributes to the financing of the health and pension system. In addition to this individual approach, there is also an element of solidarity, which is strongly highlighted in the Slovenian system. In some other systems, but when we compare, we only compare the amount of contributions to compulsory social insurance, but no one sees how many other forms of insurance they have to use abroad because they have limited rights from compulsory insurance. When we talk about the level of contributions, we can therefore talk about changing this level of contributions only in relation to the debate on changing the social security system as such. Now that we have a White Paper on the table for the further development of the pension system, when the starting points for the development of the health system are ready, it is a good time to join these two debates. But when we talk about the tax system, let's just look at this year's budget. We plan all revenue in this year's budget for 8 billion 700 million, tax revenue 7 billion 168, expenditure 9 billion 540. How can we now show you which expenditure of these 9 billion 540 is spent exactly the 7 billion 168 million? It can, for those 145 million mentioned in relation to the annual levy on motor vehicles, which is a total assigned revenue. Half is intended for investment maintenance of road transport, half for investment maintenance in rail transport. This information is shown in the final account for each year. We can also look at how budget resources are used – but only for the state budget – on the government website, but I can also provide some information. I am speaking exclusively of the state budget, not of the consolidated balance sheet of all four public finances. Of the 9 billion 540 million expenditure, 12.8% is spent on social transfers, 14.2% on pension transfers, 8.4% on investment and investment transfers, 9% on labour costs for public administration employees. Therefore, it does not claim that the largest proportion of this public financial cake is allocated to employees in public administration. 9% or around 900 million are for this purpose. When talking about the number of employees, figures were used to talk about employees in the public sector, not in the public administration. The public sector covers, in addition to public administration and uniformed public servants, soldiers and police, including health professionals, in the education sector, social sectors, and these are the sectors where the greatest additional employment was required due to the needs. If you look at data for the number of public officials in the public administration, you will see that the number is constantly decreasing. That is why I would really like it to be a debate, but also to use comprehensive data. Hold on, when you start increasing taxes above a certain limit, income starts to fall, but it also goes the same way in the opposite direction. The constant reduction in taxes at nominal levels does not mean that revenues will continue to increase. Under conditions of high economic growth, yes, but not under any circumstances. For this reason, it is always necessary to look at one side and the other. Just one more element. More than once today, it has been heard that the OECD has reduced the forecast of economic growth for Slovenia this year. Let me point out that yesterday, however, the Statistical Office published actual data for the first quarter of this year, which are higher than forecasts. 2.5% of economic growth was achieved in the first quarter of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u29	Again, both proposers. First, Marko Pogačnik's representative made a statement, then he gets the word of another representative of the proposer, and then perhaps members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think that, after such a performance by the Secretary of State, it is necessary to react. I've never heard a stronger statement than this one, Secretary of State, that you said that the coalition treaty was not a government document. I will read you the title: Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the mandate period of three parties. The signatories to the coalition agreement are the three presidents of the parties participating in the government. I mean, strong, really. You were talking about constantly lowering taxes, that's also a negative effect. Can you tell me what tax you've reduced, say, in the last ten years? Please. What taxes did you lower? I don't remember. What burdens have you reduced? You increase excise duties, you increase everything. The fact is that we have crossed the upper limit, which would still be positive for the budget inflow. Why have we had lower excise inflows into the budget for several years? They are lagging behind, despite the increase in excise duties. You said that a number of countries have significantly more limited health insurance rights. Dear Secretary of State, please list these countries or within the European Union or the countries that are our neighbours. Don't say America is one of these countries. We live in the EU and pay health insurance. Average wages, more than EUR 2 000 400 per year, for waiting types, for various operations, for various specialist reviews. The waiting years are over two years, three years some. Dear Secretary of State, you say that in the final budget account all these numbers that we expect are written down. Tell me how many pages the final budget has. How many citizens and citizens will look at this matter? You say that there are one data on the Government website, one on the Ministry of Finance website, one in the final budget account. We want the matter to be transparent, in an easy way that is accessible to all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia who pay taxes in this country. I'm sure what we want can be put in one of those little five-page books and sent home to every household. Once a policy should be aware that if we are able to send the electorate and voters 14 days before the elections to the collectors to their electoral programme, why do we forget in the end the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who pay taxes to send them to them at the beginning of the year or in the middle of the year: See, the policy has done this and that with your taxes paid. Today, we should have this topic in the National Assembly, not that the coalition is voting against what is enshrined in the coalition treaty, but you, the Secretary of State, are referring to the fact that the coalition treaty is not a government document. With this kind of debate, we're not going to get very far in the state. Let's pour ourselves some clean wine, why these taxes are being used.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u31	The second representative of the proposer, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor and then prepare for Mr Franz Laj and Dr Laszlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't have much time, but I have so much time to say that I have a problem with having a coalition agreement, but we don't have a coalition agreement at all. For me, the deal's the weight. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you next. The biggest black point in Slovenia among all the indicators used – if I return to the Swiss Institute and the competitiveness scale – are international investments where we are ranked 59th place between 61st. We stand out on an extremely modest scale of foreign investment, and we also have an extremely poor efficiency of investment funds, so that they are subject to investment in production capacity, research and development or services. In short, even very rare foreign investments in Slovenia do not produce the desired effects, according to data from the Swiss Institute. Although the country has been boasting about improvements in employment in recent years, it is estimated that the Institute in this area is only 51st place, which is worse than last year. Your comment would be kindly requested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u33	The word has Mr. Franz Laj, prepare Dr. László Göncz and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u34	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Debate, debate, debate. Nice. Whether any of this will be of benefit to us, and especially to the citizens, is another issue. They're spinning and they're lining up, and we're moving on. We all find something wrong. That the work is overloaded with tax duties and contributions. He's holding it all together. If that were not the case, then Slovenia would not have avoided foreign investors. The locals are also considering whether it is worth investing in Slovenia or elsewhere, and we also have recent concrete investments made abroad, not in Slovenia, by Slovenian citizens. That's too bad. That's too bad. So it happens that young, capable, competitive people leave with them. This is it, and then the economies of scale are shrinking, the national economy is shrinking or is not expanding now that there are so many good conditions that it can expand, it is not happening to the extent that it could otherwise be. I hope that we will gather enough strength to tell exactly what needs to be changed and how we can change. If we raise the general allowance on income, it means that the cost of work is going to be so great, clearly. On the other hand, there will be a deficit in the state budget, and that is clear to us. Therefore, it will probably be necessary — if there is to be something else that makes sense to deplete the work to a certain extent — to make appropriate changes in the public sector. My colleague told me there were 250 different agencies. This is what needs to be checked in the budgetary planning itself, which should be programme and project-oriented, with precise objectives, measurable indicators and, most importantly, that effective control over the use of public funds is also essential throughout this system. It will then immediately show where those segments are and in which areas the unjustified use of public funds is taking place. In my view, it is not necessary to develop some great science, but it is necessary to do in concrete terms what we and most citizens see, that we must do to increase our competitiveness, not least. This is our future. If we don't compete, we'll all get past us and we'll get lost, not on average, but we'll land on our tail. That's probably not what any of our citizens want. That's not what I want. Of course, citizens are entitled to receive correct information in an understandable way, in an understandable language, so that they know where the money they have paid has been spent. That's the least I think the state should do. But that's a long way from being happy. They can be satisfied when, in their daily lives, they feel that these funds they have paid are also properly spent and that their standard, although not improving, is not getting any worse. According to the latest information showing where there are still very large problems in the use of public funds, safe health is the one that still shows certain negative trends at the expense of health care as waiting periods increase. There is probably no room for manoeuvre to raise the level of contribution, as it would further exacerbate competitiveness and, on the other hand, the question of increasing efficiency by increasing additional resources. Probably not everything is always in money, and we also need to look at what can be done with organisational approaches, with rationalisations. There are always reserves, I'm sure of that. There are also reserves in each company, but these reserves need to be searched when the best times are right. How's the theory that there's something to be saved when there's money? There's nothing more you can do when he's gone. I don't think it's necessary to be over-dramatic about this whole thing, but you have to do it the way you have to. I think there is knowledge in this country, there are people who have an interest in doing something, and now the question is if they are involved and will get the opportunity. Now that's another question. I expect that, also with regard to the Law on excise duties, the issue will be corrected to some extent and will also contribute to the improvement of the situation in this area. However, as I can see from the currently available materials, the problem will remain open because our diesel fuels will still be too expensive compared to direct competition, largely due to excise duties. If this story continues, then, given that we are a very strong transit country for road traffic, it will happen that trucks will be fueling and buying outside Slovenia, and will only do more damage to us by destroying roads, with traffic accidents, with all the pollution that follows from their side. And so on. Too bad we don't take this opportunity now that it's time. We've been doing some tests. It is true that, at the moment or in the short period of time when this change takes place, there is a reduction in excise duty, a one-off, but there is a long-term increase in sales and many times this difference can be obtained by having a multiplier effect on other activities, on trade activity and so on. So much for that. This problem, which occurs daily with our migrants, mainly from north-eastern Slovenia, will also be increasingly intense because there is in fact a significant difference between taxation of our worker and work and Austria. Interesting. Even though the standard of living is inadequate there, they still have to pay extra tax. You'll probably have to go down the income ladder here because I don't think there's any other solution here. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz has the word to prepare himself for mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Dr. Gonch.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I will try to take into account what the speaker, Comrade Laj, has said before me that a lot of speech is unlikely to help, but it is necessary to approach concrete solutions slightly more effectively. But let me just start by saying that we are a little bit surprised by this information when we read it in the paper, that this difference between the so-called return on taxes and income to the welfare of the population is expressed as a percentage of what we have compared to some comparable countries or countries we have as examples. If there is a "systemic error" in this too, even if these are absolute data, which may not be fully true, however, this derogation is so great that we have to pay attention and we have to wonder why this is happening. There's been a lot of talk today, and I don't want to repeat myself. Among other things, it has been pointed out that the public financial problems are unfortunately continuing systemic problems with us. A similar statement was also made in the opening implementation by the State Secretary. I am aware of this and I also accept this position, but all we have to do is point out that in the most pressing cases, such as the question of the bank hole and the resolution of this problem, the health issue mentioned above and could therefore mention, is not a breakthrough. I am pleased at what Mrs State Secretary has now said in the end that the official figures of the Statistical Office are more favourable than the OECD's forecast that 2.5% of economic growth is very nice and right, but I think that until we reach out to these major systemic problems, such as health care and the bank hole, there will be no suitable solutions or confidence in what we are doing. I have also tried to compare the last provisions of the proposed amendments to the Law on excise duty and have also sought perhaps a question or some positive departure from what has been stated in today's paper. Since I am not an expert in this area, I must say that I have not observed some concrete or positive trends, but I would be happy if something from the Government, or the proposed excise policy, could already reduce some percentage and, in this respect, also lead to some easier survival in the population. Finally, it may be simply that tax policy is undoubtedly just one of the areas where all these problems and all these problems can be solved. Once again, I stress that neither excise nor tax policy as such will be effective until we correct, as I have already mentioned, the greatest systemic problems, banking problems and all the inconsistencies caused by this, health abnormalities and some other systemic problems. Even though our association today will not bring anything else, we must at least note to this extent that the government should keep on the lookout even more so than it has so far, because the real effects are unfortunately no longer felt by any citizen or "simple" citizen of the country. In particular, it feels quite contrary that some who have literally misused systems in the past, such and other systems, still live quite smoothly, while the survival of the citizen, especially in the periphery and in the countryside, probably also in the main city, is becoming increasingly difficult. So it is easy to work, and only with some cooperation and listening to each other can this wagon move a little further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, very well greeted! Taxes and contributions no one likes to pay, but taxes and contributions are part of our daily routine. Like the products we buy daily in trade, contributions are taxed or also with income and property. It cannot be overlooked that the services provided by legal persons are also taxed. So we know a lot of taxes that apply both to individuals and to businesses. The question now arises whether citizens and citizens receive enough for paid contributions and taxes. That's today's question. I believe that today's debate will be constructive, open and clarify a number of issues. It's working. With public finances, the country ensures the operation and distribution of important public goods that enable citizens and citizens to live better. These goods, which we meet almost daily, are health, education, security, defence, transport, culture, utilities, must be accessible to all under the same conditions. In summary, public finances are crucial and very important for both the country and the local communities as they decide on social, social, cultural and economic life and the development of each place. So there are public goods in society. These are those which the State provides free of charge to all citizens and citizens under the same conditions. Of course, free of charge with these contributions and taxes. The public sector that provides us with these public goods faces us before we are born, in the form of health services. True, in health care today, we have long waiting periods that we want to shorten. This is not to say that the resources or money allocated to these health services would be insufficient. I believe it's something else. It's about the fact that the funds are not being properly distributed. It is therefore crucial that we do and prepare for health reform as soon as possible, which we have been waiting for for some time. Then we face public goods throughout our lives. Also primary and secondary education, which is free for parents, but you need to look at where these resources come from so that this education can be free of charge. So, every school needs basic funds. In primary education, this basic fund of the school and the building is provided by the local community through a budget or average, while at national level funds are provided for the labour force, teachers, management and other staff from the state budget. Of course, the country also finances investments in primary education, which is very important for the development of society and the economy. We therefore certainly need taxes and contributions in order to provide such a large volume of public services. Therefore, public services are considered to be part of the consumption of these goods by citizens and citizens because their supply of these goods is socially desirable. Some effects are positive and some are unfortunately negative. Education is a socially important asset that benefits the individual and certainly the whole country. Indeed, we have already heard in the debates today that quite a number of our young students are going abroad. I'm afraid that's the way it is. They're for the better tomorrow. The country's services are encouraged and must also be financed. But we also have negative effects, as we have heard several times today, these are excise duties. We pay excise duties on alcohol, alcoholic beverages, energy, tobacco, diesel. These excise duties are different and I believe that the new excise legislation will improve this situation. But let me give you one quote from the proposer who listed it in his paper on page 9, which has stabbed me the most. "The global economic and financial crisis has indeed taken place at the end of 2008, but the rise in unemployment has been the most affected by the increase in labour costs, in particular the increase in minimum wage and the practical abolition of the rebalancing of income benefits."Is there really a reason to increase unemployment in the higher minimum wage? It would be useful for everyone to know that wages are a key component of an economy that allows for consumption and higher economic growth. I wish that all employees would have a salary that would guarantee them social security, a decent life, as well as a pension that would enable them to live a decent life. Therefore, a minimum wage level is the minimum standard that a worker has to accept for the work done, for me entirely on the spot. However, I would like to see this minimum wage of €790 gross higher, as wages represent a very important source of income, while at the same time providing a basis for the financing and functioning of social security systems. If we look at wages from an economic point of view, we also see the effects of wage heights on the whole economy and economic development of the country. Z The proposal also states that our salaries are too burdensome and that the burden of gross wages needs to be reduced by social security contributions. There's no denying it. At the same time, the question arises to me how much more money will be received by the staff. Several times it has been shown that when we cut our contributions, the worker received nothing more. We supported the capital. Discharge of gross wages is necessary, and I certainly agree with this, but this must be for the benefit of workers, as this also preserves pension bases. The payload should therefore be on the side of wage contributions in order for the worker to receive a higher salary. However, I certainly believe that it is time, as has already been mentioned several times today, for us to move from words to action.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get Mrs. Vojka Shergan ready. Here you go, Mrs. Chimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! I believe that there is no citizen in the Republic of Slovenia who does not believe that the tax burden in Slovenia is high or very high. I also believe that there is no citizen in the Republic of Slovenia who does not wonder what the taxes and contributions paid are actually getting back and why this money is actually being spent. In particular, citizens and citizens have repeatedly wondered about this when it was known that their tax money had been used to patch up a so-called bank hole in enormous amounts. On the one hand, we are talking about the revenue we receive from the budget, and on the other hand, we should not ignore the fact that we would make a substantial contribution if we did the most to reduce the number of unemployed, because this would reduce expenditure on the one hand, and on the other hand this would mean higher revenues, so this would be mutually beneficial for public finances, which I believe we are all very well aware of here. It is a question of what we are capable of doing or what measures the existing ruling coalition is taking. More than once, wage taxation has already been exposed today. Everyone knows it best, but everyone sees what they actually get in the account. At times, employees do not even know the second gross amount or how much the employer has to give to get a person, say, a thousand euros net on his own. These amounts, of course, are enormous. If we look at OECD data, the average labour tax in Slovenia is 42.5%, while the average in OECD countries is 36%. More than once, it has been exposed, including by the Minister of Finance, that the biggest problem is taxation of social security contributions. Many suggestions have already been made, including in the National Assembly, but nothing has been done so far. On the one hand, the individual gets a net salary, and we know that he gets a thousand net wages on his own account, for which more than €800 has to be paid for more taxes and contributions. Of the thousands of euros that an individual receives, he goes to the store and pays VAT for every product he buys. In Slovenia it is just because public transport is not the best thing to do, that every house must have at least one car. Again, he's going to charge gas, pay taxes. Wherever, at every step, of those thousands of euros, a citizen pays enormous amounts for taxes and contributions. Or he gets a power bill. It's already a real art to learn from that book. When you look at how much you pay for electricity and how much you pay for the rest, let's say network, excise, VAT and so on, we see that the energy actually consumed is about a third of the price that we end up paying. It's the same with fuel. The biggest problem is excise duties, which have been exposed several times today, as well as the other benefits that we pay. But for the actual value of the fuel, we pay a third of the price, about. Of course, that's not the only charge. Every year we pay the registration, we pay the toll, we've already heard, half of it's cars, half of it's railways. It's a good thing we don't pay any extras here for a Falcon or anything. On the other hand, we drive along the roads and see what these roads are like. If we're going down the freeway, we have to pay for the wine anyway. These are all in some way taxes and contributions paid by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If we look at the medical bills, we pay medical bills from our salary and so-called voluntary health insurance, which is more or less compulsory health insurance. Everyone pays for it. This amounts to a fairly busy amount of money each year. In the end, you need a service, a waiting period, we know what they are, and many individuals, if they only have the option, so they prefer to seek help and pay for a service again to come first, because sometimes they just can't wait that long. It is normal for citizens and citizens to wonder what they get for this money they give to the State. That's not negligible. After all, you need some paperwork on the administration unit, you go back there and pay a cab to get it. On the one hand, we already have a service that is supposed to be intended for citizens, but we cannot just get back there and get something for it, even though we pay taxes and contributions all the time, but we have to pay for it again. I am saddened by the fact that we are not aware of the fact that the country is as strong as its economy. Of course, we like to boast that we have economic growth, we are happy for our exporters – it is good that some companies are as good as they are – but to say that something really needs to be done now so that entrepreneurs can be burdened with both tax and administrative burdens, which unfortunately is not heard any more or less. Economists also point out that labour costs are simply too high. And, finally, investors, too, this is one of the very important items why investors don't come to us. I really hope that in the future we will also do something about it, because we have not solved the grey economy with tax receipts. We have burdened those small entrepreneurs and a large part of civil society. By giving us 22% of the VAT, we have done nothing, except that there is a little more money in the budget each year and it is guaranteed that it will run at least that far. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to raise value added tax, which is a very large piece of cake in total taxes, just like excise duties. These are very simple measures to take, but they have very cruel consequences for everyone living in this country. Of course, it is painful to mention or suggest another option for a real estate tax when it comes to a certain petrol cent. Then everyone wonders why there's this. Of course, all of this is not negligible. We see that the system works more or less in the way that those who are good who want to work are most punished, at least under some pretext of solidarity and justice. All is well and well, but on the other hand, when we hear that Ljubljana has received 300 million euros for 34 projects, all of us who are not from Ljubljana are in pain. As far as European funds are concerned, so are they. Why? Because we are a recipient country mainly due to the underdeveloped eastern part of Slovenia, a large part goes to the western part or, even worse, the center. We already know how centralized we really are. At least what we could do is actually put a card on the table in some way, simply say how much money has been made and what this money has been spent on, what has been done for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That was actually our proposal. Very simple. No one will read, say, a whole bunch of budgets, final accounts. It's simply unacceptable for people. One really good review of how much we got out of what we spent so much on. Finally, we could send it to any individual. For income and bills, please add how many benefits some individual has had from the country in a given year and how much he has actually added to our common treasury. The purpose is good and it is very difficult to understand that the coalition Members do not support this. It is also right that there is some transparency in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Šergan has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary with co-worker, colleague and colleague! Slovenia is ranked on the average of European countries according to public sector expenditure. "It is not only essential how much public sector is earmarked, but also how efficient and efficient the public sector spends these resources and what extent and the quality of public goods or services it provides to its citizens." That's what you wrote in the proposal. The answer to your proposal for a discussion on how taxes are used would be that the first step taken by the Ministry of Public Administration is a functional analysis of public sector entities which is based on the Public Administration Development Strategy 2015-2020. The aim is to continuously improve the public sector, towards greater efficiency and better quality public services. The aim is to create instruments for the comparability of entities or indicators that will provide insight into the differences in the effectiveness of individual entities in individual activities and offer a tool for finding measures to improve. This is said to be a step of improvement in the public sector and, of course, the next steps follow this improvement. Then you stated that the fact that the state does not create an environment in which individuals could succeed. I don't think that can hold it, because a lot of people are very successful with us. Look at the show The real idea of how successful entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises are, we have great athletes, we have scientists, so I couldn't agree with that. Then you state that citizens are not prepared to pay taxes and that the tax culture in Slovenia is very poor. But, dear colleagues, the tax culture in Slovenia should actually be built by all together, all citizens, especially politicians, who should agree at this point that this tax culture must somehow be raised. I think it is also obvious that the coalition is exercising aggressive tax control, which is not safe from children in schools – the example of school bazaars and tax registers – overstatement. For the first time, the Government has also explained and demonstrated understanding in the National Assembly for this type of occasional sale, such as school bazaars and smaller non-profit companies, and has drawn up a regulation that will thus remove such sales. Then, as Members, we could also think in a second direction that, in fact, we can in some way turn the issue of tax culture in this direction, so that instead of a loving, negative warning on this subject, our common message of Members can also be brought up, because somehow young people should not be shown that their country is their opponent, that it penalises citizens, but should, as politicians, report that taxes actually mean better quality education, health, good roads, social. In fact, today, when I was driving to work, I also listened to Dr. Verico Trstenjak, who told the audience on the radio this morning that despite the negative criticism of citizens that everything is bad, this is somehow not true, this stressed that Slovenia still belongs to a more developed country in the world, that life in Slovenia is still good, but that we are all set in Slovenia in this direction, that we have too much expectations, we expect from others, I stress, from others, especially from the country. But we do not ask ourselves what we can do in our environment to make it better for all of us. I think such a message would be very good. Here you are also talking about changes, the introduction of a targeted state budget, the use of cost-benefit analyses in budget planning. Of course, we agree on the introduction of the so-called project budget, which, by the way, has been introduced by the Government since 2006, but of course it must be borne in mind that this means changes, changes in our heads, changes in people, that it means another way of thinking. We all have these changes in our language, but when they need to be made, in all areas there is a kind of resistance. Everyone would make changes, but not on their own. We're going to have to change that, too. Then the opposition's testimony is that we reject everything the opposition proposes. I don't think that's the way we try to follow and support good proposals. I would like to stress here in particular that in the field of agriculture, we are often looking for compromises and trying to find a common position. I don't think this is entirely true, and in a way like yours, you're suggesting that we reject everything the opposition proposes. In some ways, there will certainly be no progress in our country in some areas without cooperation. Then I'd like to touch the payload somehow. We do see that wages in Slovenia are more burdensome, but the government is working on tax restructuring. I was also recently in a company that is from Austria and also owns a company in Slovenia. In the discussion it was noted that they were actually satisfied with our business environment, but they might have pointed out some administrative obstacles that they had suggested to be removed, particularly in obtaining a spatial permit, so that they could expand their activities. This is also what we all agree that in this area, in obtaining a building permit, certain measures need to be taken and administrative obstacles removed. It is also their view that the most burdened salaries of those employees who have higher added value will be very well accepted by the Government's proposal to restructure taxes, because then employees with higher added value could receive higher net wages and, of course, a Christmas house than they think is appropriate for employees at the end of the year. As for people getting a report at the end of the year where taxes went, I would say that some things are actually being warned about today. For example, they go to a pharmacy and get prescription medicine, where they write out how much they should pay for themselves if they have to pay for the medicine in full. And a few such bills are received at home. Even in the accounts, as for electricity, as mentioned earlier, these taxes are established and in some way known how and where they are going. As far as investment and what the state is doing on projects is concerned, it is also a project management, and we will take the Government and also the coalition Members to continue to go in this direction and achieve these goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levičar has the word to prepare the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mrs. Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings from the Secretary of State and you, colleagues and colleagues who are listening to this debate! I would start essentially where my colleague Susana Lepi Šimenko ended up when she said that all citizens were wondering where their taxes and contributions were going, what they were used for. I would say that this is not only a question for Slovenian citizens, but it is of interest to people everywhere. Members and Members of Parliament, of course, know where these contributions and taxes go. This is clear from all the reports we receive in the National Assembly. Perhaps little is known by the more uneducated citizens and citizens. The fact that we should send everyone a bill at the end of the year, what they get from these taxes and contributions, I find it really impossible to propose, because everyone gets something else. Most of this country is, of course, socially disadvantaged, which is true because they receive various social benefits and, finally, parts of pensions, slightly higher pensions, pensions and so on. It is right that we, who have higher incomes, Members and, of course, all other categories of people with higher incomes, have less than these taxes and contributions, even though we pay more. But we are a social state, and that is how it must remain. I am more familiar with the area of pension insurance, and there is a special exposure to pension insurance. It is said that it comes from all the funds received by pension insurance — those incomes of the PPIZ collected by contributions and also those collected from the budget — a good 99 per cent to finance legal rights, that is, pensions and all the other benefits to be paid by the PPIZ. Only 0.9% or something like this is about the functioning of this facility, i.e. all salaries and all operating costs, all administrative costs. This is a fine example of good management by these means. However, I would have stopped doing so, given that only a good 70% of the funds flow from contributions to the pension fund, everything else is almost 30%, which is slightly different after years, and it has to go from the state budget. This amount is indeed high and precisely because of this amount, the country is always under the blows of European institutions, that costs are too high to finance pensions. In Desus, however, we cannot agree to reduce pension rights, even those legally defined rights, for example, pension coordination. Therefore, we will continue to insist that the reconciliation of pensions must be regular, given that our country also fulfils the conditions of surplus and growth of the social gross product, and also in order to ensure decent pensions. There is no way we can be satisfied that after 40 years of working, a person can retire and get about 500, 600 euros in pension there. This is unworthy of a country called the social state. How can he survive this, especially when it comes to single - parent families or the most endangered widows, when they are alone with one small pension? That is why I believe that there is a need to insist on this, especially on collecting more contributions to pension and disability insurance. The Desus Group, together with the SMC Group, had one meeting at which we wanted to explain what the State had done in this area to improve the recovery of contributions. They told us something and also promised us that they would do more in the field of amended legislation in order to achieve more revenue from contributions. I think that there is a lot of insolvent legislation here, those who avoid paying contributions and then go bankrupt, and the state has to cover all those costs for employees' contributions, and then for the unemployed who go to the Employment Service for a lot of times of the unscrupulous work of those who cause bankruptcy. In short, we will also seek to improve legislation and in general to better recover contributions in order to enable the country to make less money available from the budget for the pension fund. And this little comment on what Mr Horvat said at the beginning. The non-motivation of citizens to pay taxes. I think citizens are motivated to pay taxes, those small citizens, because they can't even think about it. Taxes are paid because they're torn off. Unmotivated to pay is those who speculate. These speculators who then cause bankruptcy and who carry money into tax havens instead of paying for pension insurance and paying taxes to that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl, who has a few seconds, and Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u46	Good-bye to all of you. I must say that I am now very grateful to the Lady of Desus, who spoke just before me, for she has so beautifully summed up the essence of everything discussed today by the coalition. More taxes, more must be collected, more efficient collection and so on. All we have to do is chant "Live socialism" and have a complete offer and a real state of affairs as it is. Today's theme is how much the country picks up and what people actually get for it. If we go to the first part first. Why do you think it happened before II? world war – you check if you don't believe – Gorenska is three times more developed than neighbouring Austria, and today Austria is at least once more developed than Slovenia, but Gorenjska is barely in the middle or not. In the meantime, he was a socialist and a red star. However, milk, milk, milk, and milk should have been collected, collected, collected as much as possible. Once it went to Belgrade, later to Ljubljana, but now we are all, in fact, almost poor in the European scale. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. This mentality alone is beyond your ability to understand. That's what the lady said before, everyone would change, not just themselves. First, the coalition should change itself and this way of thinking. Why did this happen? A fine comparison is how one and the other act in tax collection. Austria, when it comes to small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs or newly established companies, is based on flats and tax exemptions for the first few years. But with each of us, it works with the tax box, pay first, and then we'll control you, control you. That control costs more than the state actually gets in this way, let the government pack it whatever it wants, but that's a fact. Because what is the sole purpose of such a country with this mentality? That public administration is as powerful as possible, that there is as much red tape as possible. Bureaucracy regenerates itself and speeds up, but forgets that money has to be taken somewhere. This is why entrepreneurship is dying, and therefore the economy is not achieving the results that it could achieve. The result, of course, is catastrophic. In Austria, the whole system is based on the trust of a man, on the fact that the state also gives up something, but that is why something in entrepreneurship survives, so it starts with some new business and may live later. Only when it comes to life does the country come and say, "We have to pick up what we have to have for these and these things." But with us, every one of these little scribbles is going to fail. But then we are in the infamous first, read the last, the place of the worst countries in the world, where we are, in all the fling about socialism, the equality of socialism to the extent of that little person – by the way, still persists today – the country where a child born in a poor family has the least chance of succeeding in his or her own country with his or her abilities. The least possibility in the world is for a child born in a poor family in Slovenia to be enriched in Slovenia with his work, with his abilities and with his comparative advantages. It's a disaster! We should talk about this. We are actually talking about this today, but you are not aware of it. The whole system is set up to regenerate those who once had an avant-garde or have been taken for granted to stay on top, and everyone else has no chance of ever being threatened. So what's the result? That young people are going abroad. The most capable are going abroad, and those who fail here in no way with their entrepreneurial idea who fail to penetrate with their abilities, which, as a rule, are doing very well abroad. This means, of course, that there is nothing wrong with these people, young Slovenians and Slovenians, but that something terrible is wrong with the system as it is set up in Slovenia. As the tax mark, all bureaucracy, all bureaucratic obstacles and regulations are put in place to wipe out a young man in his entrepreneurial initiative, as shown by the fact that some kids are picking up and selling a sponge somewhere, I don't know what. We have every possible criminal. As long as it's done that way, it won't come anywhere. In fact, it is not because of naivety, but because a system is being regenerated, which is incompetent, only to ensure that those who are on top remain on top, those who are lower down, but who can never really succeed in life. By the way, all the systems with the judiciary are so placed, you can talk about it later. For example, look at the amount of legal fees you have set up, and ask yourself whether a common man, a small entrepreneur who has just begun, is really the right in this justice. It's not! I can tell you there's no way the system's gonna crush him and he's never gonna make it here. But he's gonna go across the border and he's gonna open up some place in Austria, and suddenly he's gonna run. Isn't it weird? That's what the problem is when you collect taxes. It will be necessary to completely change the principle, to help entrepreneurship, to trust in man, to go to the flats, to the redundancies, to make something live and survive. That what survives strengthens, and then that works. But it's got to be "zero" on a new one. Once in Slovenia we will be a more entrepreneurship-friendly country like neighbouring Austria, then this flow will turn, the current which is the biggest disaster in the history of Slovenia – that young families, the most capable young individuals and entrepreneurs go abroad. All entrepreneurs in Gorenjska, if they have not already moved the accounts and headquarters of companies abroad, think about it or prepare it quietly. There is nothing else in Slovenia. We should think about that. And how that money is spent. You said those who have more must. You know what, according to European standards, we are all poor in Slovenia if anyone has not noticed. According to those criteria of the richest countries that we should consider to be examples and compare ourselves with them, not with those who once followed us several times. Then it seems to us that this one just hasn't outrun us yet. Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, all the ones we used to look so high because we thought we were where. Today, everyone is ahead of us because they have released the development potential because the tax system has been set up to accelerate, to preserve, with confidence in man, an opportunity for someone who wants to create something entrepreneurship, to live and then survive and strengthen. But when we look at consumption, it was said earlier that this is normal. I'm sorry, there's nothing normal about this anymore. If you go back to neighbouring Austria – because the first neighbor is certainly the best comparison, with her we had several centuries of common history – there for one child, for every child, each family gets about EUR 3 000 500 per year of child supplement. Now look what you get in Slovenia. Incomparable, of course. Why? Because it is a country that strengthens its family, which strengthens its future. Slovenia is strengthening its bureaucracy, which, by the way, is nothing to the future but a complete collapse. Even in all countries it was, and it will be in this one. If you look at the other side of the medal when it comes to pensioners, it was said earlier that we have to pick up more, we have to take more, we have to raise taxes more and we have to pick them up even more effectively to be more for pensioners. That's what my colleague was talking about right in front of me. I'm sorry. It's a matter of principle again. Not only in collecting taxes, which I've already explained, why, but also when you're looking at where the money is actually going in this country. To someone who has worked behind the tape for 40 years and has paid all taxes and contributions fairly all the time, there is now €400,500 a month. But when someone comes here and says, "You know, I'm an asylum student, but I'm a migrant, and it's said to open borders and each one gets more than twice a month -- there's about 820 euros out there, according to official statements, but actually there's a much higher cost for one. In short, where does he put himself? It is argued that young people are being sent abroad, but I am inviting people who will permanently hang on to social life. It is naive to think that these will be their future voters, whether they will or will not be a problem, a security problem or a different one, but we have discussed this another time. But let's look at this in terms of money. Excuse me, is this still a social state? I'm saying it's not. This has nothing to do with what is enshrined in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, that Slovenia is a legal and social state. This is a false social state, a country that is endlessly expensive, devouring entrepreneurial thinking, thereby laying the foundation for every healthy and efficient economy in today's globalised world, while at the same time rewarding one who happens to pass by and says that he likes to be declared a god of knowledge here. This is on the verge of madness, the question is only on which side of the border. Depending on those who have power, this is always the government and its coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility is yours alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mrs Andreja Potočnik. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to respond to the proposal for a recommendation on the relationship between taxes and contributions paid and public goods offered by the State for these taxes and contributions paid. The claim, however, relates mainly to the fact that the biggest reason for unemployment in Slovenia is the increase in labour costs mainly due to an increase in minimum wage. I think it's right that we crystallize our view of this problem and not view an employee as just a cost, but an employee who actually creates it. Without an employee, capital is not worth anything, and it is right to be aware of that too. Unemployment, which has actually increased enormously, has increased due to the economic and financial crisis caused by problems in the private banking system. This then caused problems in the economy and, of course, also in employment. I think it is right to add to this opportunity, because it is not in the material that even in Slovenia the banking system played a very important role in how we will respond to the economic and financial crisis and how many jobs we will be able to maintain during and after this crisis. The fact is that at a time when banks withdraw from the market and do not finance the economy, the economy becomes neglected and left behind only a mechanism to reduce its costs in a way that reduces production, reduces jobs and tries to survive with some minimal scale, or even leads to bankruptcy. This is one of the problems that also has a strong impact on how much money we can then raise in the budget and how much good we can then provide to people from the budget. Nevertheless, it must be made very clear that, despite the fact that people were not responsible for the economic and financial crisis, the most affected were the situation and status of the people. This pressure also reflected the lower consumption, thus lower economic growth, lower gross domestic product and, of course, the unemployment rate of 110 000. It's a little smaller now, but it's already reached 115 thousand people out there without a job. The worst part is that in a very short period of time nearly 60 thousand people have lost their jobs. If this is not an option for employment, then, of course, it is very difficult to provide the means to maintain the whole system in the country in a way that ensures the proper level of functioning of all areas. However, further, I might point out one of the current issues that at this point is whether or not we will agree in the future that these funds that we have in the budget are indeed shared in a way that then has a positive effect in the particular area and that there are no specific problems. I will specifically highlight this process of negotiation with the police unions. I only point to the problem that will arise if the security and defence system is not treated as a whole. If we save only one part of the security system but do not deal with the defence system, then there will certainly be a conflict and this distribution of public funds will not produce the desired result. It must be made very clear that the intervention into the security and defence system at the time of the reduction of funds due to the economic and financial crisis has been excessive, unjustifiable, because security has to be ensured in any case, irrespective of the situation or condition of the banking system, if I can return only for a moment. But if there are no firefighters and military involved in the negotiation process, then we will come to the point where we will otherwise try to solve the security problem or the police and in fact make a major problem on the other side of the defence system and the security system. This is what I now consider to be a process that shows that we are overly narrow in dealing with problems when a particular sector needs to be addressed. Of course, the security sector is impossible to deal with differently than it is to involve the police, firefighters and the military. Finally, in the military process that is under way, we close the reasonable possibility that when someone reaches 45 years of age and as a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces completes his professional career – he has been invested in a lot of resources, he is trained, he is highly equipped – that this member continues his career as a police officer, because he is also qualified and does not have to invest any additional resources in the transition of someone from the military to the police. By doing so, we maintain an adequate level of security. If the level of the pay grade — the sixth, fourth, and so on — is changed, of course this transition will not be possible. We will make a higher cost than if we jointly pursue these negotiations or in a coordinated manner conduct these negotiations and have a view of how the security system can function as a whole. Finally, the migration crisis has shown very quickly that only one system cannot manage some of the larger situations that may arise. Therefore, on this occasion, I would point out this and I think it would be a good time to include both the situation of firefighters and the position of members of the Slovenian Army in these negotiations. As a whole, it is then a system that can function in the future and which people also expect us to provide them with adequate security through the public funding system in all areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Mag. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This topic is certainly up to date today, especially because global economists, as well as the global economic situation, point out that economic growth is not guaranteed even further, economic growth and prosperity are not guaranteed, neither for the European Union nor for individual countries in the European Union, and here also the relative decline of the individual country says much. The OECD forecasts, which reduce economic growth for Slovenia, are certainly not a good indicator of the basis on which economic growth is based. Also because most of our exports are based on exports, exports can quickly decline in economic growth in our largest export partners. That's one thing. Secondly, the global economic crisis can also put the whole of Europe in a different position. That is why these warnings are on the spot, and this tax story may be even more real today than it was the second time. On the other hand, of course, it is also necessary to know that people need to be provided with a certain standard of services for which they actually pay and certain pensions for which they also pay. Speaking of health services, we certainly cannot boast of any high quality today, and speaking of pensions, we cannot talk about these pensions being high today. On the contrary, they are too low, and finally the European Commission reminds us that this system or this law that we have today will not last much time. In view of the fact that I have said that this topic is always topical, some debaters have also intervened in the past and in past tax and consumption events. Given that some of the debaters have been talking about the 2006 reform – I must say that we have had quite a bit of debate here with former Member Križanič since 2009 – I would like to say something again in this regard. Even though it was said at the time, even in the position of the Social Democrats, that the tax on paid salaries was abolished and that this resulted in a combined effect of 2.5 + 0,5, it is estimated that 3% was lower than GDP. At that time, there were also 900 million or one billion talks, however we calculate it. First, it has to be said here that in 2007, this is due to this tax reform, Slovenia's surplus in the budget and that it also had an surplus in the public balance sheet in 2008. Whether that was enough or not, of course, is another question, but the surplus was. That is in 2007, on the basis of the reform carried out at that time in the first year to say so. At that time, taxes fell, income decreased, corporate income tax fell, and wages were taxed. At the time of economic growth, and taking into account what the Secretary of State mentioned, after all, that lower rates could also generate higher revenues, these revenues were such that the budget was positive. It is now hypothetical to place some new or previous tax rates in this context, because higher rates could also mean lower taxes, less economic activity, less export potential and so on, with the country's debt of 8 billion at the time, but today we are talking about a debt of 30 billion, over 80% of the gross social product, I think that at the time was 22% of the gross social product. I want to say that it is not professional, if you want, to label this tax reform in a uniform way so that then the state's public financial situation deteriorated in 2009, 2010, and so on when the crisis occurred. It could have had a certain element, but at the time the investments were large, at the time unemployment was extremely low, 60,000 additional permits were given, 60,000 were unemployed, and this is not the whole reason that then this was due to 13 billion loans and so on, as mentioned today. I've talked about this a lot, and I'm going to say it again, and I'm probably going to have to do it again. I allow the possibility that some degree could be different, allowing the possibility that it could be different, but that it blames that tax reform for when the next government in which Minister Križanič was Finance Minister – I know that for the first time he actually said it – could change everything. I could've changed everything. Or at least I could change something. At least a few things could change if they were so bad. It's not. I do not think that that government has taken any tax measure. No tax measure. While there was some talk about some taxes, now I would not go to that level of what was being discussed, but no tax measure. That is why I do not think that we can blame that tax reform on all of this, and after all, it is not the most appropriate, and after all, all governments could change a lot. This thesis is not entirely true, I don't think it's true at all, but I'll professionally say it's not entirely true. The next issue is the Secretary of State's call to discuss this. I'm glad. But she immediately added: We have different information or you do not have enough information. In order to discuss this, of course, it is not necessary to say in advance that our data is wrong, that you have more, that you have better, and so on, but that if we are already talking, we should start talking very carefully about how we will reduce taxes on work. Taxes and contributions so there won't be any confusion. First, we need to move from words to action. How do you get from words to actions? There were already a lot of proposals here, from the development cap or social cap years ago – which is more or less one and the same, at least in this technical sense, although it has a different name – to the change in income classes, to the change in income levels or to do something about it. However, these may be words, they may be the attempts of the Minister of Finance, who has already failed two mini tax reforms or what they are called, although I do not wish to use the word reform because there may be changes or changes at some level, but this is no reform. Reform is when you re-establish a system and actually put an end to it. Nor do I agree too much to get rid of everything and then do it again, but not every change in the rate is called reform. Of course, there is something that must be done. Because of me, the coalition will eventually consider what will happen, to seek support from the opposition, and that something will actually happen. But the facts are going the other way. The income, the abolition of valorization, that's what this government did. This increased the financial impact by 30 million. It increased the rates of tax on financial services and on insurance services, I think from 6.5 to 8.5 or 8%. She then passed the law for a constant higher value added tax rate to 22%, as already discussed by her colleague Bratušek. The excise duties, if we look at them, are not competitive, in other words, uncompetitive in the sense that Slovenia is a transit country for many carriers, when we talk about excise duties on petroleum derivatives, is a country through which a lot of people travel through which freight traffic also travels, but they do not stop here because it is possible with one tank of petrol with the ease of transporting Slovenia. Because they do not stop here, they benefit from our roads, which are paid very small or do not even pay them, or even the option is that they receive part of the excise duty back if it is the right legal basis and the right legal person, but they do not contribute anything to the budget. But it's a excise policy. Yesterday we talked about a new Law on excise duties, where rates are set and so on, but then the Government has the possibility that by 50% of these basic rates or amounts, however, it will change the amounts and rates according to the economic policy of Slovenia. The secretary of state said there was a criterion. Yes, the economic policy of Slovenia. Not even the economic policy of the government, but the economic policy of Slovenia, which is such a stretching concept that it can always be done. However, it is done when more gas is taxed, but this may also result in lower consumption. You will be able to go to statistics and say that consumption is higher this month, or depending on the previous period and so on. But we've had non-competitive excise duties for years, especially on oil derivatives. There's a lot of chance that something can actually be done. A minimum can be done in one day if you want to, by amending the Regulation on excise duty. This can be accepted by the government, you don't have to come to the National Assembly. However, prices show that petrol and oil derivatives are not competitive compared to neighbouring countries. On the basis of this table prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are spending — this is data for January — somewhere in the middle of the European Union. However, given our characteristics and the geographical size of the country, the question is, of course, whether this is the right policy. But the government can make a change here immediately. It can also immediately make a change in the model, which determines how gas prices are determined. Why do we have to have a single price of petrol in the market economy throughout the country? You don't have to. It's not in Austria, it's not in Italy, it's not in Austria. As a result, this price comparison, if we are looking at one price, is questionable with other countries, because we cannot only look at prices on motorways and prices in the interior, where they are of course different in other countries, but they are everywhere. If the Government has an interest that we can negotiate, as the Secretary of State says, and calls for a debate, it can do a lot of things here immediately. It can also try what would have happened if the price of petrol had been less than 1.2 euros – or more than it is now – 1.05 euros because it would have been less than in neighbouring countries. So there's a lot to be done here. A little harder than that is probably a change in wages. But this is where it can be done. I think you have calculations about how much you want or you make them very quickly. The Ministry of Finance has been running calculations for decades and most of them are already in drawers, everything is set up, so you have done it very quickly. From this point of view, you can certainly make a more competitive salary or more competitive remuneration, so that the data will not be given for the same average gross salary of thousands of EUR 599 and 70 cents; in Slovenia, employees will pay thousands of EUR 34 and in Austria a thousand EUR 236. There are also options in changing the class, changing the untaxed work, changing the suspension and so on. Speaking of which, the Slovenian Democratic Party suggests that it should actually approach something that will also happen, because the lack of competition of the economy due to such taxation is too great. Even if competitiveness increases by 6 cities and so on, as has been said today, or recent news shows, we are still very low, too low for a European country, too low for foreign capital to reach us. I think that, of course, this can be done to make some adjustments in the field of health. Finally, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, told me that the health reform will be ready in September 2015. Well, now we're in 2016. I asked her directly and she told the Commission on Public Finance Supervision – you can look at the magnetogram – that this would happen in 2015 so that we could get her to the National Assembly in September. Now we could celebrate soon a year from when this health reform is actually due to come to the National Assembly, but it is not yet, but perhaps there are many things to be done there. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals are well-intentioned and are the starting point for this coalition. If the Government does not do so, dear colleagues and colleagues, do so, because any Member may propose a law. You do it. Prepare legislation, we can do it together, we will help, you have your calculations, we have our calculations, you have even a government, we have statistical offices, we have all these offices, we have data and you do something if the government isn't capable of it. Because I think it is essential that something is done because it will be 2 years in August and – although I will not talk about the tax box – there is nothing in the economic field other than the tax box. Except for the tax receipts. That was also the main measure, but that's not enough, that's too little. I'm not even going to talk about tax receipts. It is also not hygienic for my understanding that this is the last most important measure of some government and some coalition in the economic field. There are options. All you have to do is work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Get ready, mags. Ange Logar and mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u52	President, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, welcome! As has been said many times, in the SMC Group we are aware of the problem of excessive wage burdens. However, I believe that with the new proposal from the Ministry of Finance regarding tax restructuring, we will go against reducing this burden. At the same time, I think it is important that we change the structure of taxes, so it is necessary to change the distribution of the tax burden between consumption, work and property itself. This will also help to improve the competitive business environment. Mr Horvat mentioned in his discussion that Slovenia has the potential to reach the top 5 countries on the competitiveness scale. I fully agree with this statement. But he continued to lose that potential. I'm sorry, but the statistics show exactly the opposite of that statement. Slovenia is growing on the competitiveness scale. Moreover, Mr Peter Stanovnik of the Institute of Economic Research says: "Slovenia is one of those countries that has made the greatest progress on the scale." Therefore, I find the remarks of my colleague Horvath somewhat incorrect in this case. We have often been told that the government is not effective. Moreover, the former Prime Minister claims that we are sleeping on the laurels of past governments. Why, then, does the Institute for Economic Research study indicate that progress has been made in the field of government efficiency? Of course, the fact that this is still not enough is true because we are still below the pre-crisis level. Does this perhaps mean that the studies are not correct, carried out by our institutes and the former President is right? With everything we are talking about today, the biggest issue is the gradual reduction of the structural deficit of the country's sector and programme planning. A great deal of effort is being made in fiscal consolidation measures. However, it is important that income limitation is achieved through structural changes and to a lesser extent by reducing investment and intervention and linear measures. In doing so, we are also commended by the European Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs, Mr Pierre Moscovici, who said he congratulated us on the progress we have made since returning to sound public finances. However, I am convinced that the country still has a large margin for more efficient tax collection. Allow me to read to you or to share with you another very fresh information about what the Government has accepted today or what it has become aware of. It took note of the interim report on the implementation of the Action Plan for Priority Activities of Ministries and Government Services in 2016 adopted at its meeting on 25 February this year. The ministries in key priority areas of the Government – economic growth, consolidation of public finances, labour market measures and strengthening employment, health care – carry out their tasks. With the measures being implemented, the Government wants to see to it that administrative barriers are reduced for citizens, that it strengthens the competitiveness of the economy and that tax burdens are more equitable. The central leadership of the government remains to further improve the standard of living of people. When it is always said that nothing is done, today is proof that we have an action plan, that we are monitoring and that we are working. Furthermore, the Government has just adopted today a new two-year SJU2020 Action Plan for 2016-2017. Let's just say today's work. During the discussions, it was also mentioned that Gorenska was three times more developed before World War II than Austria and is now on foot in this development. But I wonder if from World War II to the government of Mira Cerar, no one ruled? Is that why it's only Dr. Mir Cerar's government? Then what did the governments do before us? Now of course you're reading it to us. You're also telling us that we're not a social state, which is what the Constitution says. Let me remind you that in 2016 we increased the social expenditure budget by 30 million compared to 2015. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u53	The word has magic. Ange Logar, prepare for mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Tillen Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. I think today's discussion of cities is quite schizophrene. Government coalition members speak of the need to change the structure of tax burdens, but the government points out that it rejects the preparation of the 2012-2015 tax consumption report. On the one hand, you admit, in your reply, that the Slovenian tax system has a global anomaly and, on the other hand, you would not want to discuss it. I wonder why we wouldn't want to discuss this. Is this because once you become a coalition Member, your view of the tax system is completely different and you also have a different tax system than all other citizens, or because the debate on this area and the preparation of this report would probably show that the Government has done virtually nothing in the middle of its mandate in this area, except to impose additional burdens on taxpayers and introduce additional administrative burdens? I'd hope to claim it's the other part. The key debate on this issue is only one, whether you are a coalition Member or an opposition Member, whether you are a minister, whether you are an employee in public administration, whether you are an entrepreneur or anyone in this our love for Slovenia. Does the service you receive in return for what you pay to the State outweigh that payment? This is the only question raised in this debate. It is amazing that in this area an in-depth discussion with some in-depth analyses on this subject is rejected. For me, this is simply incomprehensible. Why is it difficult for the Government or the Ministry of Finance to prepare a detailed report on this basis? In this debate, there is also a very interesting mix and spillage of the executive and legislative branches of government. If you had previously listened to the position of the SMC and the President of the Finance Committee, in the position of the SMC, i.e. the parliamentary group, she literally read the government's opinion on the proposal of the SDS Group. She read the paragraphs that the Government has written in this report. That's right. I can tell you which paragraphs, because I even tagged them because I was pretty surprised by that. It just doesn't work that way. This is the legislative branch of power which has its own position, which has its own opinions and needs to be respected. The debate was requested by the parliamentary group, the debate took place and will take place in the National Assembly, where you probably also have some opinions from the coalition members, particularly from the largest parliamentary group. We have produced quite a number of table comparisons in this material. Let me get back to that original dilemma, that crucial question. Are you satisfied with the level of services you receive from the State for this payment? If you look at Table 6, you will find that we compared three wage classes, i.e. minimum wage, average salary and twice the average wage. At the minimum wage, you can find that someone who gets out €560, the country, for what he offers, pays €360. 64% of their salary is paid for ensuring social security, health security and so on. Someone who puts in a pocket for a month after a domestic "jury" pays the country 80% of his salary, 800 euros. Those who are more than 100 % of the services they receive. Are people satisfied with the health situation? Every eighth Slovenian is in the waiting line. 247,000 Slovenians. One in eight is waiting for an emergency surgery or some emergency medical examination. If he has a minimum wage, he pays 64% of his salary if he has an average salary of 80% of his salary and waits. Is the service at the level of what it pays? Ask yourself whether this person would rather receive an average salary of EUR 800 in his pocket and find himself a doctor who, in the end, can find him if he wants to come in on time and pay him on his own, or whether this EUR 800 to the country and in your opinion, that is the point, should not be dissatisfied. He has to figure out how well we're doing, how we're growing, how some economist says we've jumped two places, not some ladder, and he's asking why we're getting upset. No, he can be dissatisfied. If he's unhappy, he has to say it. Since we are the electorates of these people who are dissatisfied, we must hold this debate in this national assembly and on this basis we must also provide some solutions. However, if you have to give some solutions, I will return two years ago to the beginning of your term of office. Mr. Maramor is at the hearing at that time. 14. 9. 2014 spoke precisely about what is in this building. He talked about having a problem with the structure of public spending. He said: "We can help ourselves with public consumption by not using for purposes that have no multiplier effects or have very low multiplier effects on gross domestic product, and by redirecting where they have them." What did you do halfway through your term of office? What did you do? Nothing. The coalition MP said that, and I agree. What did you do? Why not discuss this in the National Assembly? He went on to say: "And I will also point out the tax burden of the most suitable – so I will call it – those who contribute most to raising the added value. We are uncompetitive in this area, young people are escaping us." I think we have a problem here. What did he do halfway through his term of office in this area? Young people are still going out, the most creative ones that contribute most to GDP growth are still taxed the same. You know, you've kept 50% of your taxes, which means you've introduced a new tax, you've raised your VAT by an additional 2%, you've kept your meaningless valuations, and so on. You don't listen to your minister. When he spoke about structural changes in health care, he said, "First there must be structural changes and then we will talk about financing. As soon as you throw money in a system without asking for change, nothing happens. I have some ideas on how to do this, and also the Minister of Health, and we're going to explore which variant would be the right one." And? Half term. Now you will begin to prepare for the next election. You will see what measures are popular and taken. Who's going to do the reforms? Once again, I ask you to answer yourself whether the one with the average salary for the 800 euros he gives to the country is satisfied with the level of service he receives for that amount. Answer that question and then assess whether our request and the two proposed decisions are justified or not. Then ask yourself why you rejected these conclusions. I don't understand you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u55	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr Tillen Christmas and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u56	Good afternoon. I think that today's debate is one of those that should be as many as possible in this House, and that is how to make this country more effective and how to spend the money we have by giving the greatest possible results. Without any shocks, I think we have proved today more than we have proved that compared to other countries, Slovenian wages or jobs are much more taxed than any other comparable countries with which we are competing, in particular the multiannual bloc, perhaps even north and south of us. This is a thing that we should first focus on and do something at this point. As far as the opposition is concerned, we have tried certain proposals, which have been rejected, and I will not go back to them, but I want to say the following, that it depends to a large extent on how many jobs there will be in this country. If someone simply does not see this connection, that if we overtax our salaries, then simply a huge amount of money escapes us through the state cash registers in the sense of working in black, in the sense of a minimum wage officially to an account, and everything else in the envelope in cash, if we do not see it and we do not understand it, then it is unlikely that any rapid changes in this country will be expected. Another thing is strongly linked to wage taxation, which is our pension system and the pension itself. We have a pension system that depends on how many people you have, who pay the system, and how many are currently in retirement. We are employed by those who invest in the system, so it is so important that as many employees as possible, which on the other hand is linked to taxes. When I go to different meetings in Slovenia, especially older, younger pensioners or those who are just before retirement, they ask me where my money is, which I paid for 40 years in my salary for my pension. I'm surprised that a number of other people are convinced that the money they paid for their pension or their pension fund was deposited somewhere in their pension accounts, and that when they retire, they will draw a pension out of that money. But of course it's not true, we don't have such a system, but we do have a system where we still have the same month's money that we take from our pension salaries, that for the pensioners themselves and their pensions. That is why the relationship between those who are being paid into the system and those who receive pensions from this system is extremely important. Over the next ten years, we are looking at key changes. Take a look at the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia – statistics, demography and such things are quite accurate sciences – and they will prove to you, according to the structure of the current population, that within 10 years we will see a significant increase in the proportion of older people or, if I say so domestically, in the next ten years, the number of pensioners may increase to 100,000, which is a great burden for the pension register itself. Why am I now talking about the pension fund and the taxes themselves? Because I find it undignified and unacceptable that people who have worked for 40 years get miserable pensions that make it difficult to survive. Just today, when I drove to this meeting, a pumper at one of Petrol's gas stations, when I was paying for fuel, asked me if I knew that after 40 years of working time he would get a little over €700 pension. He certainly claims that this is too little, given what he did and what he was paying for, but I couldn't answer him any more than that he was understaffed in this country. Because if the ratio was the same as it was in the 1980s or the 1990s when two or three of them were employed on one pensioner, then it's a completely different story. Now virtually this ratio is already falling below 1.5 and it makes sense that pensions are falling. Therefore, the taxation of salaries is linked to how many people we will have employees. For how many people we will have employees, however, it is important to know what pensions will be. If we do not seek to make such a tax environment to be as many employees as possible, it is clear that pensions will continue to fall. In the last ten years – and I will not say who has been in the government in all these ten years not to say that I am attacking someone – pensions have fallen by 16.5% in all these years. This is not my conclusion, but a finding from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. In all these ten years. Because it was clear that the relationship between those we were paying into the system and those who were taking from the system could be maintained that these pensions were declining. If we want to maintain a pension level at such a decent level in the future so that people can survive these pensions, then it is crucial and inevitable that this is linked to the number of jobs that this country will offer or hold for its citizens. However, this number of jobs depends, of course, on what will be the taxation of wages. I would like to be as low as possible, with more jobs and therefore decent pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Tilen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Pojbič and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u58	I'll just start where it was done – the number of jobs. The number of jobs is also raised at the expense of measures taken somehow by this government through the budget adopted by this National Assembly. Like we said before, a little more money was meant for. There is an increase in the number and labour force. So it's working on it and it's not in thousands plus a minus statistical error. That's one thing. Another issue I have to deal with over and over again is the thesis or the hypothesis that lower taxes bring more tax revenue, less tax avoidance and so on. Here is the World Bank's report and let's look at the grey economy relative to the share of taxes and GDP – Azerbaijan's grey economy over 57%, GDP taxes 18%; Georgia, 65% grey economy, 20% taxes and GDP; Kazakhstan 40% plus the grey economy, 23% taxes; Kosovo 39%, 20% taxes; Austria's grey economy 9.73%, 42.8% taxes, GDP. We can even go through. As I have once shown here with one thing, which also had a trend curve, logic is completely reversed. Not because of what someone would think at the first ball, but, as I explained last time, it is up to the extent of the share of taxes in GDP, also depending on how strong the country is, the structure of the country, the effective collection of taxes and so on. For us, for example, it has been repeatedly stressed that we have one of the lowest tax gaps in VAT, but otherwise we still have something or we have quite a gray economy, and it is also slowly decreasing at the expense of some of the measures that have been taken here. Even at the expense of accepting the tax box, even if many people do not like it. It is an additional administrative burden, but it is an effect which, on the other hand, is greater. There are more benefits to being more competitive conditions, greater transparency, better control of those who work in black and so on than before. This can now be guaranteed. Then there were other different claims. As far as the SMC's point of view is concerned, it probably flew to what was written inside, certain things that the government is already doing. The fact is that some of the certain things that concern this area, as you yourself have said, include a coalition contract, including the SMC programme of this contains something, a lot of it is in reality, we are talking about a lot of things with the government, that we should speed up something else, that they have done a lot. It makes sense that when we talk about what the government is doing, we have information. Given that we are a coalition, we somehow support this government, at least in this area we can expose it. I hope that's not a bad thing. Then there were questions in terms of what someone with an average salary was getting for 800 euros. Depending on how we look at certain health services, there is no limit up. Someone will be able to get some therapy – they have problems, they have leukemia, whatever – and it will be more than 100,000 euros. Someone like me, I don't spend anything at this time. But it could happen to me next week, something's gonna happen to me, and I'm gonna pump that money that's redistributing. This way to evaluate one system We also have in the Constitution that we are a social state, that we have some system of reciprocity and also help in that we are paying now for those who are somehow retired. [[…]] That goes with it, that's the redistribution system we picked up. I'm not saying that there's nothing to improve, there's a lot to improve, and that's why, at least as far as I'm concerned, we've come to this policy, we've come to realize that it's not exactly what it looks like when you're looking at it from the couch. So, it's nice to be in one stadium, watch football and be on the bleachers, scream down, the judge has no idea that the player has no idea that no ball can kick, but they're only paid for kicks, but in reality it's just like that. In the context of this, at least as a team, I think we're trying to do the most that can be done, that bad guys and things like that don't do things on purpose, not even mistakes. We've got some pretty interesting stuff going on here. Earlier it was also said that Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and so on were ahead of us. As I know, we're not. That's what it says here. I don't know. When I look at statistics, that's not true. It's true that they're quite dynamic, and we're trying to be dynamic again. The dynamics also show that we're moving a little faster on the scales. But it's true that when you're low, you jump up quickly. This is exactly what we were talking about here, when one session was just on the topic of the charts, when it was said that Slovenia was falling rapidly, that it was falling faster than the others. It's growing faster than the others. We are a small open economy, we have a very high degree of volatility, and like hard landings, they are also quick to take off. The only thing to do is to make sure that when they take off, that they are as fast as possible and that they last as long as possible, and that the falls are as short as possible and as shallow as possible. Although we have not been overly successful in the past. Given that we have not even reached the pre-crisis level of GDP, although we are now growing solidly, it is of little importance. But let us say that from the point of view of one country at the age of 25 we are still relatively young and obviously do not have enough abscess for what it means to have and manage a country of our own. And I hope that we have taken a step further in this regard, I think everyone, and that in the future this will also be known and maintained on a longer hand. In particular, this tax policy often proposes some rapid measures to resolve a matter. It is always necessary to take into account both the revenue and the expenditure side. Here I certainly agree that on the expenditure side it is necessary to have some indicators, some analysis that tells you whether you have achieved your objectives in accordance with what was planned. The calculation is changing in this direction, so it is guided by some targeted policies. What we are finally reporting to the European Commission has some targeted orientation, which then affects the whole structure if we look at the whole pyramid down under the budget lines. In principle, if someone now went to print a complete budget and all the items, it would probably be a little late to write down everything that went on and how it was distributed, but in principle to reach these data and also to determine whether the objectives were achieved and whether they were in line with the plan or not. In principle, the money is not thrown out of the window or tried to throw it out of the window less and less, despite certain strange things that have happened to us. After all, we currently have two committees in the National Assembly, which indicate that there have been conflicts in large systems. After all, it is probably difficult to get rid of them definitively, but it is still important to be careful that they are as small as possible and that they are at least ultimately sanctioned. Here I certainly rest my heart again – it was somehow one of our pre-election promises, namely the investigation of the bank hole – the other branches of power we have) in this country to do this work as soon as possible, because it also depends on speed, whether any of this money will ever be found in this cash register again. If I go down another direction, as far as tax restructuring is concerned, and so on. Compared to other countries, the taxes on property and capital are certainly slightly lower as regards wages, more burdened both by contributions and in some way by income. In the meantime, as you are aware, there is a rather lively debate with many stakeholders, and when there is a debate with so many at a time, things are slow. The fact is, however, that within the framework of what are public financial capabilities, what can be done is done. The priorities were mainly in stabilizing public finances and making us an internationally credible partner. On the basis of this, credit ratings are growing, and we owe more than that. As a result, our companies can be more indebted and, if companies are more in debt, more money remains with them for development, for growth. We still have a rather favourable policy, as far as the impact of one of the investments is concerned. It is said that the corporate income tax or profit tax is significantly lower for those investing in research, development, new equipment and so on. This is what is encouraged and results on a medium to long term. It's a long run. Because in my opinion, a measure is a measure to say that, suddenly, a general relief is raised there to EUR 7 000 and that we suddenly have a budget deficit of EUR 500 to 800 million, only on short lines, because we would have an exponentially increased structural deficit and probably could not be remedied within some foreseeable period of time. We can learn from the past. Here are colleagues - I think that mainly from SD and Desus - have already pointed out that there have been low rates of contribution, that the tax on paid salaries has been abolished, that the corporate income tax rates have been reduced, and on the other hand, that there has been no reform of the amount of expenditure at the state level. This is how the scissors opened. They are now closing, but the intermediate period of open scissors has been extremely long. That is why we are now discussing that we are already in debt over 80% of GDP and that this debt will be extremely hard when it begins to fall in at least a relative sense, even on the basis that we are paying over a billion euros in interest, which is about 300, 400 million euros more than it was at the time of Mrs Bratuška, who is wondering where the money is going. It's going. I hope that it will be slowly – even at the expense of the refinancing of bonds and so on – more and more for what we would like, real health care, pensions, education, police and so on. But if someone wants a comparison of what they get, if I go back to the 800 euros from earlier, let's look at someone in Nigeria. Let's say they have 12% of GDP taxes there. What does he get for it? Is he getting security? He doesn't get it. Get some fresh drinking water? He doesn't get it. You get a school? He doesn't get it. Does he have a chance defense? No, no, no. In fact, he's got the other way around, 'cause there's so many people coming to see him. Does he have any external convertible money? Does he have a pension? Does he have a field where we don't spill oil on him? Is there anything he can do if he gets oil? Can he sue someone? These are the sub-systems of this country, which, compared to those that pay substantially less for the maintenance of their country, so in terms of the share of the tax on GDP, do not provide these services, which, despite the fact that we do not at times recognise them, this country still provides them. As has already been said, it is necessary to work to increase the efficiency of the use of this money and the value of the services that citizens obtain from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Here you go, proposer, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you. I have to react. I think that certain Members, especially the modern centre's Parties, do not want to understand or understand what we want. We want to say here, in Slovenia we pay too much taxes according to what we get back. I believe that someone, if he's sick, spends more money than a respected colleague of Christmas who said he doesn't take anything out of the health department. Thank God. But that's not the point. We do not want to change this system, but it must be said that in Slovenia health care is not free. The one with the average salary pays about EUR 2 000 400 per year. And what does he get for it? Waiting kind. Here's the point. The point is that Furs or the Ministry of Finance would report correctly on the manner in which the taxes were used. You're talking about a social state. Look, Mr Christmas, there is Kindergeld in Austria - no matter what the status is, what the property status is, whether the father or the mother is a football star, whether they have six castles at home, or if someone is unemployed, you get a fixed amount of Euros per account by the age of 18. That's what we're trying to say. Why is the price of oil cheaper in Austria than in Slovenia? We say that it is an inadequate excise policy and much more. It is most unfortunate, however, that the recommendation that we have proposed is rejected by Members and Members of the Coalition on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, despite the fact that you have this in your coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Let Mr Franz Breznik prepare, and then we will move on to the final part.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to have a little laugh in this seat where I'm sitting listening to my SMC colleague who's been discussing and comparing us with Nigeria. I do not know whether Slovenia is a country that is comparable to Nigeria, whether the Slovenian state wants to be comparable to Germany, Austria and highly developed countries, i.e. the Visegraj Group and so on. With these countries taking the right path, which provide people with the right conditions for survival. We are going in a completely opposite and wrong direction in this country. That's exactly what this coalition is encouraging. I am sure that the situation in Slovenia is far from what you, Mr Christmas, say. I don't understand how many times I'm going to have to explain here in the National Assembly that you're going to go between people and ask. Every day we have greater poverty in Slovenia. Every day we have more pensioners with minimum pensions, with those who can't survive. We always have more people who are employed with minimum wage, workers. You spoke – perhaps not just you, some of your fellow Members – about reducing unemployment in Slovenia. But you didn't say that most people go up to Austria. Go take a look, Mr Christmas, I'll tell you because I can tell you this because I live in the environment because I see how things are going. Here in Ljubljana, or in this area you really don't feel. I don't know where you're from. I'm sorry. Even if you are [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, from Kopra, then it's logical that you don't know what's going on there, though, you'd be right to know as a Member. But once again, unemployment in Slovenia is being saved because people are looking for solutions beyond our borders, and not because this government would do something smart for citizens and citizens. She didn't do anything. Tell me specifically what you've done for economic growth. What have you done, your Government? One of the MPs said, "We collect as much as we produce." How can it be said that we collect as much as we produce if we have more than a billion deficits? More than a billion. So we're not getting as much as we're spending. Then you said the government was already preparing structural measures. I've been listening, very carefully. It's been two years since this government. What structural reforms have you made so far, please? How long do you plan to paint the Slovenian people? Your philosophy, leftist philosophy, I'm sorry, is to impose taxes on people. Make them poor to make them easier to deal with. The right-centre and right-hand options want to create the conditions for developing an economy, which results in new jobs and so on. This is the only one that is added value for the future development of the country and added value to people being able to live better and better in the country. What have you leftists or this structure done so far in this area? What? Tax registers. So that I don't start counting, because I feel sick when I start and listen to you here, talking like you parrots repeat after each other. I apologize for the expression, and I sincerely apologize for not wanting to be offensive. I really don't. But that's amazing. I'm listening from the first to the last time you repeat the exact same stories, the same lines. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have tried to tell you that people in the Slovenian country are not satisfied and for what they give, they are not getting enough. That's the whole philosophy. Once you understand this, you will no longer have any problems, you will really start to think that something fundamental and concrete needs to be changed in this area. These are structural reforms. But not the structural reform of the tax box. The biggest success of the Slovenian government or of this coalition is tax cash. You wrote it yourself. I'm gonna go check and get some paper to read to you. What are you writing? Or do you speak one word and write another? I don't know how you guys work. I don't know. You talk about how we're always doing better and what you've been saying in, and Mr. Tillen Christmas. What helps us if we have 2.5% of economic growth, and if all the money that this 2.5% economic growth brings is a lady for interest? We don't even have enough for interest, Mr. Christmas. We don't even have enough to pay interest on these approximately 32 billion we owe. What kind of economic growth is this if we have too little to pay interest? But where is the money that we should invest in the economy and development of this country if we give it all up for interest and headstrongly owe it to the State and public administration to live as small gods? There's no problem in finding money for them. Although I have nothing against them because we need them, but in an appropriate number and properly organised, because the real sector is the one that is creating and paying for all of this together. I'm going to confirm once again what I've been saying so far that black clouds are colliding over Slovenia. Who wrote this on June 1st? OECD. They wrote: "The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of the OECD Slovenia for this year predicts 1.5% growth in gross social product, which is 0.4 percentage points less than the forecast made last November". On the other hand, it says that we are also being rushed by a poor Greek. Thus, those that we are funding from the Slovenian budget, which we have given them credits and guarantees for how many millions, are now ahead of us. This government is proud of it and speaks here about how well it leads this country, how successful it is and so on. Come on, we Slovenians don't think we're crazy enough to keep sitting around like this. Please. The coalition and all the coalition partners sitting in here should think about it. We should imagine and say: No problem, we are not able to lead these countries, and because we are not achieving the right results, we are prepared to step aside from those who will be able to seduce this issue so that people will really get the feeling that politics is working for them. Not that politics works for the structure of those who live super in this country. I'll tell you one more comparison. I spoke to a colleague yesterday, a mayor from the Austrian side. The Austrians received 6,000 euros per hectare for the death toll that took place in Styria, Austria. What have you done for our farmers so far? Go upstairs and take a look. Up to 90% of them have people who've frozen everything. Tell me what you've done so far. Mr. Christmas, don't nod your head, you didn't do anything, that's the problem. They've already won. How, then, should our Slovenes and Slovenians compete with them? How, tell me. They're 6,000 acre straight away, or we're either dead or in one or two years, maybe something. Well, that's unacceptable, that's absurd. There's another thing. The decision took 16 million Euros of grants, development funds for Maribor and a wider region, including the municipalities of Pesnica, Kungato and so on. On the other hand, Ljubljana receives 300 million, no problem. Is that normal? Tell me if this is normal. That's what this government does, that's what you guys sitting in here doing. You put the stamps up, you give your votes and you squeeze that. Don't tell us anything crazy, but... I no longer allow you to make fun of the Slovenian people. I won't let you! Because you're wrong, because what you're doing is wrong, you're going the wrong way, and you're taking our poor people into an even bigger hole. Please do not do this because it is wrong, it is not good, it is extremely unfair and harmful for the future of our country, our children, our grandchildren, our pensioners, our workers, especially those with a minimum wage, and so on. Don't tell me you're working for the good of this country, because you haven't done anything until now, except that you've done enormous damage, that not one bandit has been shut down yet – I can't tell them otherwise, to those who allow themselves to steal thousands of millions from this country and are still at large today. You have a government, you have a minister of justice. What measures have been taken in this area to accelerate this story? They were blocking our chairman of the commission investigating this bank robbery, and because of the judge, he couldn't get the data so things wouldn't be discovered and so on. I do not know how long it took for some authorities to wake up and say that this is unacceptable, untasteful and extremely irresponsible not to open these questions. It's only logical that I get nervous to get in a bad mood when I have to listen to such nonsense, dictates that someone reads here. Get used to saying something out of your head, not just reading it all the time. Apart from Mr Tiln Christmas, I have never been able to tell you this, because you are a truly pure theorist, but I must tell you that you have no idea about practice. I'm sorry I used that term. I'm sorry. I didn't mean it like that. I assess that this proposal for today's debate is well-intentioned, in the right direction. We wanted to tell you that some things need to be looked at differently. Looking for the benefit of the Slovenian people, but perhaps not those of some of the structures in the background that really have only a common and only goal to fill their pockets, and on the other hand there are constantly more impoverished Slovenian people, as I said – pensioners, those with a minimum wage, those in the employment institution, and so on. That is why I will never and never agree with you who claim to be the ones who are taking this Slovenia forward. No, I say in front of the entire Slovenian public that you take the responsibility to take it far away, 10 steps back you have seduced her. So I'm asking you to give this place to those who know how to drive this thing better than you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u64	I was a little misunderstood in the introduction. I guess we don't understand each other. It's not about me comparing Slovenia to undeveloped countries. It's just that I wanted to illustrate what it means if a country is underdeveloped, what problems it faces, and what it is with a country that is on the way or is already a developed country. If you go to see the share of taxes in GDP – Austria 43.4%, Slovenia 37.3%. Now I don't know what part we don't understand here. As far as my theory is concerned, it's true that I have a fax made, I don't see anything wrong with it, but I probably worked in the economy before I got here. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you'd never say anything. But as for the data I've given you before, I always give you data in pairs to be verifiable. If the number of active workers goes up and if the number of unemployed is lower, it means that there are more employees, but you can turn this data around as you wish. If you need me, we can meet this afternoon, we can also do statistics, I'll take my time, and I'll explain. As far as I'm concerned, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I told you the data was in pairs. I'm not arguing with you, I'm replicating. Another thing about the time that you drove the country so exponentially forward, for those 20 billion, it raised its external debt and then sank into the rehabilitation of the banks that had to be paid from the budget because it came into the country with a spiral. I don't know. I mean, let me teach you something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u65	Mag. It's a cakemaker, a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u66	Chairman, thank you. I'll be very brief. I know you will not allow replicas of the replica, so if I do not understand my colleague Pojbič, I will try to explain again to Mr Tiln what my colleague Pojbič meant by the apparent decline in unemployment in Slovenia. This unemployment in Slovenia is not declining because it receives unemployed employment in Slovenia, but because it is seeking employment abroad. He just wanted to say. That's the point. New jobs are not opening up in Slovenia, but statistics are such because they find work in Austria, Italy or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u67	Mr. Christmas, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u68	A short replica. I said I'm giving data in pairs, and I said the number of active workers is rising. See the data in pairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. As the last discusser, Mr Franz Breznik also. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u70	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I started this session today with a 20-minute speech. I was talking about what the objectives of today's meeting are, I was talking about the international situation under this government, about an extremely favourable environment in which many structural reforms can be prepared. I think that today, too, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia have proved that this government has not undertaken any structural reforms, but has made much of a cosmetic correction, which does not produce results, as the next OECD report shows, which is worrying. Since we're talking about statistics, I'm just gonna start with statistics. My friend Christmas, I graduated twice myself, first from electrical engineering, then from the economy, where there are mostly the best economists, where you have to finish your studies from physics or electrotechnics, then you come to economics and you get the logic of the game. You seem to be missing one historical point. If you are a highly developed European country, once a medium-developed country, compared with Nigeria, my next problem is a lack of ambition, in particular as regards economic benefits. Now I am going to provide quite a few statistics, especially between us, the Multigradian Group and the European Union, so that we know where we are today, where we are on the issue of competitiveness. When you talk about Austrian taxes, you have to be aware of one more thing that we lack our own capital. All macroeconomic policies in the last 10 years — from the one introduced by the late Dr. Bajuk, the ones introduced by Dr. Križanič and those introduced by Dr. Šuštersič — have one feature, namely, less tax on businesses, on capital, precisely because we are aware of our own weaknesses, which is insufficient own capital and we want to attract foreign capital. The new investment just proves you're completely unsuccessful. Let us look at other problems that are pressing and that is also discussed in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This is what I am talking about most often about the fourth industrial revolution that awaits us, which will lead us to a new train in Slovenia, a new start-up cycle, a new investment cycle. The following information is worrying. First case, days for building permits – Slovenia 213 days, Visegrad 182 days. Effectiveness of the labour market – Slovenia 99, Visegrad 78. Other most problematic factors for the operation of one sixth in companies – inefficiency of the state administration. This is what you spoke about today, too many bureaucrats, too many systems and sub-systems that no one controls, which do not show their effectiveness, which are not a service to an economy that does not meet qualitative standards, where the concept of management is also in public or public administration. The smart taxes I'm talking about if we're going to make the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Rate of taxation on an additional Euro – Slovenia 60.4%, Visegrad 45.3%, OECD average 47.3%. Effective taxation of energy in industry and energy transformation as a percentage, which is one of the very important data for foreign investment, i.e. those who need more energy supply – Slovenia 17.4%, Visegrad 8%, OECD 9.4%. Social contributions to GDP as a percentage – Slovenia 14.8%, Visegrad 13.3%, the best 15 countries in Europe 10.9%. Continuation, respectable colleague. Smart staffing, human resources policy, government spending on active employment policy as a percentage, that is, what would actively seek employment, where people could redirect and adapt to economic needs. Slovenia gives 0.28%, Visegrad 0.37%, the European Union averages 0.45%. The employment rate of young people three years after school as a percentage of the percentages we speak of what kind of staff we put on the ground and whether the economy can consume them – Slovenia 65.2%, Visegrad 71.3%, European Union 68.6%. Percentage of technical knowledge graduates, which is what I am talking about – Slovenia 31.6%, Visegrad Group 40.2%, European Union 35%. Continuation, smart development, development policy, respectable colleague. Classification in the efficiency of innovation, which is an important information. The efficiency of innovation, i.e. innovation in products or services with which we perform and with which we can earn thousands of times in some top products – Slovenia 53%, Visegrad 39%. Sales share of new innovations – only 85% of the European Union average is achieved. With innovation capacity, we have 15 lost cities in five years, as regards the Global Competitiveness Report 2015. Smart internationalisation, promotion of industry in foreign markets. We also have three indicators here that show that we are totally behind the Visegrad Group. All indicators showing that Slovenia can join the next train are called the Fourth Industrial Revolution train, where we can start a new investment cycle when you have half the mandate of this government, a respected colleague, and where you could prepare the Slovenian business environment for the transition to the Fourth Industrial Revolution. That's what's gonna be too late in two years. This is where you've had two precious years you haven't used. Such favorable conditions, as much happiness as had been enjoyed during this period, had almost no government. And I don't want to compliment Bratušek on ours either, but when we had to borrow credits when we had to accept this infamous ZUJF, debt in foreign markets, as you know, was between 6% and 7%. This long-term Slovenian economy cannot withstand this because our added value in services and products does not reach the values of highly developed Western countries. The problem at the time was that we had to reduce public spending overnight, and I never want to do that again. Now we have time, enough time, when nothing happened. The time in which you have dealt with minor problems, with family redefinition, you have dealt with the withdrawal of your mandate, you have dealt with certain problems which are of marginal importance to Slovenian society at this time. Today, we are only talking about the present and only about the future, my respectable colleague. That's what we want to talk about today. We want to talk about lost time and your flower planting. One more thing about the stolen actions we've been taking. At that time, we also resented a number of voters and voters with our actions. All the measures that you will now take may begin after two or three years, as ours did when we took them into the other Janša government. I believe that as an economist, you're probably aware of that. At that time, we made the correct history that the biggest problem of the uncredited part of the economy was that of the export sector, so we immediately went to the rehabilitation of the banks, so we went to the Slovenian state holding company, so we set up a bad bank. You've also expelled foreign bad banks to have too much pay and so on, and today you're hiring a whole bunch of new people at a bad bank. This means that the salary weight will increase further. There's another performance for the public that won't produce any results. Today I myself may have said emotionally at the outset that 25 years ago I swore an oath to the Slovenian state, then the newly born country, then I had only a homeland, then we defended the country with weapons. Today, our weapons are our knowledge, our abilities, our competences. Even when we are politicians, we must be aware that we are deciding the fate of individuals, pensioners, young people, workers and workers, from Prekmur, Gorička, Notranjska, Posavje, Dolenjska and Gorenjska. All these people, 2 million, are waiting for our actions. Every second we don't go into structural reform, it's lost. We will be less and less competitive, less foreign capital, foreign investment in Slovenia and with our own capital we will not be able to do so. My friend Pojbič, who earlier said in a somewhat peculiar way and you laughed at him, also talked about local self-government. We all note that now would be the time for local self-government, now would be the time to establish the provinces, now would be the time to transfer a whole range of powers to the provinces. We could optimally draw on our resources so that Styria could develop normally, so that Gorenjska could develop, so that the Primors could get some primate of their own, so that they could decide on historical characteristics and so on, on the basis of this, go to some new projects. Nothing has happened in this area. We are only correcting some cosmetic corrections of a law promoting coherent regional development. We wanted to present all of this to you today, to say and encourage you to approach serious structural reforms. That was our mission today. And to present this to the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer are given the floor. The word is "ma'am mag." Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u72	Thank you again very much for your word. In the debate, one of the speakers mentioned that he wanted more such discussions as it was today. I must say that I do not share this opinion, but I want to be able to lead such debates in a way that we can hear each other saying that they would be politically professional, that they would be based on the comprehensive data to be put into context, not to be torn out of it. Let me do it again. Today, quite a few speakers have focused on yesterday's OECD forecast, which reduces the growth forecast for this year to 1.5%. We forget that for 2015 this same OECD predicted 2.1% growth and we achieved 2.9. For 2014, 0.3% growth, we achieved 3% growth. For this year, our Statistical Office – statistics are science, some of you said today – said that the actual figures for the first quarter show 2.5 percent economic growth, which is higher than what the UMAR predicted in its spring forecast. The talk was about 250 agencies operating in Slovenia to be abolished. In the meantime, I allowed myself to look for or search through the official accounts of the budgetary users and found that we have 21 agencies and 16 at the level of the municipalities. Maybe someone made a mistake and talked about agencies that weren't agencies, but talked about some other committees or working groups, because I remember that four years ago there was one very important analysis that had to eliminate a whole bunch of these working bodies, and there wasn't much going on. The discussion was about how difficult the former governments had been and how the current government could be, because the former governments had to cope with 7% of the government's profits or government debts, on government bonds, and now we have a relatively low profit. Is that the result that came from itself? It's not. This is also the result of the work of this government, which has not destroyed everything before it, but has built on what has been done before the beginning of this mandate and has implemented the legal solutions that have been prepared, adopted and not actually implemented in recent years. The beginning of SDH work and the beginning of DUTB work, if I only mention two. The stabilisation of public finances and the reduction of the public deficit below 3% of GDP allows us to have a more active policy in the area of government debt management and active action to reduce interest-based expenditure, and thus to create an additional space for the allocation of public financial expenditure for other purposes. One of these first complex transactions has been carried out over the past weeks, and I believe that it is only the first in a series of such measures, which will further help to manage the public financial situation more effectively. The talk was that we were rejecting the tax report. Not at all. We claim that this report exists. Certainly the Financial Administration, which is responsible for collecting public financial revenues and thus also reports on the volume of government revenue per type of revenue, is not the institution which is supposed to take care of expenditure or of the expenditure report. As I have tried several times to explain in my implementation, it is not possible to link individual tax revenues with precisely defined public financial expenditure. How can we exclude from this year's expenditure 9 billion 540 from 7 billion 168 as much as we collect taxes? What should be the order for it to be financed by other incomes and with some additional debt? The talk was that we do not know flat-rate taxation in Slovenia. No, we know her, but she's not effective. No one's using it. Anybody want to know why? No, we're just saying, let's take over the Austrian system. No problem. Easy. But that means more burden, actually, after you look at all the circumstances. We were talking about contributions. The contributions we pay from our salaries are part of our gross wages. They are not state-owned, but our property, which, because of the social security system that we have decided on in the past, is largely intended for intergenerational solidarity. Most Central European countries know such a system. Some of these systems have been supplemented by so-called social caps, but all of these countries that have introduced social caps have also introduced private supplementary insurance schemes that enable those who do not receive from compulsory insurance of the entire package of rights to be able to finance with insurance that additional part of the rights they need, either from pension insurance or from which they are counting, in order to be in need of health insurance in the future. When it comes to reducing unemployment, let me give you some more data from the Statistical Office, which have also been published today and in the past days. Number of persons employed. By March, the number of employees had increased by 14 thousand 29. In the last 12 months, the number of persons working – without farmers being treated separately – has increased by 15 000 765 persons. The registered unemployment decreased by 3 % in May by April and 9 % by May last year. In the first 4 months of this year, the unemployment register was cancelled by 32 thousand 57 or 10% more than in the same period last year. The whole range of statistics suggests that results have been achieved that can make us optimistic in order to further strengthen both economic growth and further strengthen competitiveness. The work is by no means completed, but a thorough analysis of the existing situation and a thorough verification of the possibility of change can be the only guarantee of success. We have also learned from our own mistakes that rapid action can in fact mean a revolt or trigger opposition that essentially undermines a good purpose. All these things need to be taken into account when we talk about whether we provide enough goods for the collected public finances. And I'm going to do it again for the end of what I said in the opening act. All that we're talking about today is more or less tools. For our debate, however, it must be essential to have what kind of public spending we want or what kind of public goods we want to be financed from public funds and to what extent. And when we talk about public goods, I mean essentially the broadest framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, representative of the proposer. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I am also convinced that today's debate is useful. I would also expect more such discussions in the National Assembly and would like more of them. You said you didn't want that. I believe you're more of a specialist when you come to the National Assembly to increase some excise duties to increase some taxes. I agree here. But I am sure that, at least in the SDS Group, we will make a further such request for an extraordinary meeting to talk about how much the country is consumer, where taxes go and try to find some kind of solution. However, the meeting in the National Assembly will be constructive and will have an effect when you, too, as a coalition, want to participate. Only then. Here, however, I partly agree that such a meeting is useless if only the opposition is involved and the coalition rejects at all costs any proposal proposed by the opposition, every view we have in the opposition. At today's meeting, we have come even so far that the coalition rejects the recommendation it has made in the coalition contract. The State Secretary has even used the term that the coalition contract is not a government document. This means the diversion and the transfer is greater from day to day from your side. We are convinced that, above all, it would be fair for citizens and citizens who pay taxes fairly to know what the Government is doing with this money. I did not object to the fact that this is not visible today, Madam Secretary of State, but it is, say, an annual report or a budget such that Members find it difficult to find each other when we are moving the accounts, where they fit. You said something was posted on the government's website, something was posted on the Ministry of Finance's website, but I think it would be fair to publish how these taxes are used. I believe that a lot of people who are employed in the economy or in the public administration when they receive the payment sheet look at that number at the end, which is also sitting on the transaction account. We would like to open up to all of you to take a full look at that payroll, to see what gross wages are, and at what ends does that gross salary indicate everything else. Only those who have S.P. actually know what their gross wages are and what they get for the account. If not the other one, he is curious about what this government is doing with its contributions. It is also fair that when we go to a gas station and pay 50 litres of oil for 55 euros, it would say where those 55 euros go. Is this possible for oil there 10 or 12 euros and the rest of the country eats? When you buy a pack of cigarettes, it could say how devouring the country is. Why is the price of oil in Austria between 10 and 15 cents cheaper, respected secretary of state? Why have you kept increasing excise duties for several years in the field of alcohol, tobacco products, petroleum derivatives, all budget cuts? We'll see what the result is this year. By your logic, it could go up. We should make a competitive economy, in particular, so that those from Austria, Italy and Croatia would actually come to us, as they used to, to buy gasoline. Anyone who comes to buy oil or gasoline will probably have some more coffee or go get something else to eat. But today it's the other way around. Today we go to Austria, fill the Austrian budget and finance their public health, public education and all. Do not sell that health care is free in Slovenia. Those who have an average salary pay EUR 2 000 400 per year of health insurance. Health services and everything else are paid monthly. Dear Secretary of State, I may have misspoke with the agencies. You like to play with words, numbers and stuff. Budget users, various funds, various things – here I am sure we can count 200. You said that we do not use comprehensive data, that some data are torn out of context. You're defending yourself, we don't have anything to report here, we already know you, but in the end we see that the same price is always paid by taxpayers. It saddens us that you have not gathered enough courage today to take part in a constructive debate that you have not gathered so much courage on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to support these two recommendations that we have proposed. You went so far as not to support the recommendation you have made on the 21st and 22nd pages of the Coalition Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. Mr. Horvath, please, your word. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I expected the Secretary of State to say more about what the government is thinking about the future of improving the business environment and better attracting foreign investors to Slovenia. I also owe some answers to incorrect allegations. Comrade Tillen Christmas, I must say that this time you have professionally disappointed me, because I appreciate you as a financial expert when you said that we were responsible for the increase in gross public debt in our 2004-2008 term. Yeah, that's exactly what you said. You also mentioned 20 billion. Just read the magnetogram. Do you think that our government would then have to adopt a law to prevent the lending of business banks? You meet Mr Gaspari for coffee, who was then governor, and he will explain to you what dynamic reservations mean and so on. A colleague of Andrej, president of the Committee on the Economy, mentioned me and apparently misunderstood me. I was saying that I'm afraid we're losing our potential. She then compared and said that this was not true and pointed to the rise of Slovenia in the competitiveness scale published by the Swiss Institute for Management Development. I repeat and argue that we are losing our potential. It pains me that young professionals are increasingly moving away from Slovenia, and that some good companies are also moving from Slovenia. I'm sorry for everyone. We are also losing our potential because some state authorities are doing the wrong thing. In particular, if I read the Court’s judgment correctly, Arso acted wrongly, it seems that there will be no investment in Lendava or Petišovci of 42 million. Everything fell into the water and, of course, also the final group of Nafta Lendava. It has been said that we have put more €30 million in the budget for social services than in the previous year. So much has been given by my assessment by a company that has been on the Slovenian market for 40 years and did not want to be rescued by a coalition yesterday. Perhaps legally not 100% correctly, but the coalition did not want to save it in the framework of the excise law. There's something else I'd like to say. When we compare with countries, of course it's good to compare numbers, but I think we need to do a slightly different comparison here. Sometimes it may be true with the rate of tax, but in my opinion, the best comparison is to see what a country has done to make it competitive, to make the business environment attractive for investors. We cannot copy these solutions into Slovenia, but we must do so in order to be attractive to us. We are not the same as Switzerland, Austria or Germany, but we see what other countries are doing. I'll give you one solution. We talk a lot about Switzerland. Today, those who have taken state money to Switzerland are asking independents where Switzerland is. Why is Switzerland cheap? Almost 8 million countries have 7 ministries. In this direction, I think we should act, and structural reforms are also in this direction. We need to change the structure of our country, because it cannot be the same structure today as it was 25 years ago. Why are we talking so much about the economy? We are not a branch of the Slovenian economy, no chamber. We want our people here to have a good environment, that they are happy here, that young people can create families. It's about families. These are the basic cells of our society. That's all this is about. It's very simple. I think 90% of the people in this country know exactly what we have to do. We do hours and hours, years and years with those 5%. Let us create good conditions for our young families so that they do not flee abroad. That was also our purpose, our contribution to today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-02-SDZ7-Izredna-32.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Joseph Horvat. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. All of you have a nice night together. Goodbye.
