ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 17.30 p.m. on, Mrs Iva Dimic from 19:00 on, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Marija Bacič, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Branko Zorman and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I also welcome the other guests. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 23 June 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends in relation to the procedures for detecting and investigating the sums of criminal acts related to the so-called banking criminality. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 25 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Today's meeting may not seem necessary to anyone, at least in a coalition, given that she has rejected all the conclusions on the committee, but it must be said that it is probably one of the biggest problems in the history of the country if you want. The 5 billion or 2 000 500 euros per citizen of the Republic of Slovenia have disappeared. For this reason, we have proposed an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with a proposal for conclusions, which I will end by saying. However, I must say that all the decisions were rejected at the committee meeting, because the coalition does not appear to have to address this issue. However, if I remind you, it is necessary to say that, as you know, in December 2013, the so-called stress tests carried out by international experts were simply followed by the Republic of Slovenia and the then government invested in the three largest banks some over 3 billion taxpayers' money. If we include DUTB and the transfer to DUTB, which is a billion 676 million, if we include the write-off of subordinate financial instruments, that is, 400 million and something, you get the fantastic EUR 5 billion that have become our big problem. On the inside, however, it is very clear that most or a large part of these so-called loans can constitute criminal offences in one way or another. Today, a few years after that, we find that in this area, in terms of prosecution of crimes, something has not happened much or almost nothing. Iceland faced a similar situation quite a while ago. Iceland is also a small country, everyone knows each other, everyone is related, as some media reported, and there was also a big problem, an extremely big problem how to investigate this bank hole. According to what First Investigators Eva Joly and our Consul Vladimir Lužnik reported, the situation in Iceland was quite different from in the Republic of Slovenia. In Iceland, of course, investigators first went to bank management. That makes sense, too. Bank management is the one that lays down the conditions for lending, which also decide in the most important matters in this area. But the investigators went, you won't believe it, not even the Prime Minister. However, the President of the Government was informed that he had not convened a government meeting on the subject in order to speed up procedures in this area. Although the President did not answer criminally, the problem was dealt with as follows. 84 investigators worked in Iceland, directed by an experienced prosecutor, one alone, started in 2009. In 2009 After a few years, in fact, criminal charges are lodged and sentenced to more than 80% of the funds that have been or have disappeared in their banks. I stress that more than 80% of people – seen through the funds of poor loans – are, according to their own words, behind bars, ladies and gentlemen. Do you understand? They're behind bars. This means that the police have done their job, that investigators have done their job, that prosecutors have done their job, and that the courts have done their job. How are things with us? I think that the public can think of the situation in the country, and even more so of the situation in the coalition, which is not ready to take decisions on the subject that we have proposed. Even at the time when I carried out the tasks of the Interior Minister, namely in the other Janša government, we have waived the Bank of Slovenia's report to the prosecutors and investigators, which, if I recall correctly, to the approximately 3 billion-dollar bank hole. So this was in 2012. In 2012, at a time when I was acting as Minister, we re-employed and re-trained 20 investigators of the National Investigation Office. Later, 20 new prosecutors from Slovenia were employed to concentrate on the specialized prosecution. Now look at the results of all these terrible stories of employment, investigation, and work, or I'd say work. Prosecutor Jože Kozina said on February 25th last year: "How many illegal assets will we be able to get, I can tell you from cases you also know. from all of this? Bavčar and Šrot – 150 million, practically nothing, Kordiš – 130 million, nothing, Zvon One Holding, Zvon Two Holding – 120 million, practically nothing. These are the words of Kozina in 2015. "We can get our first sentences in 10 or 15 years, but first they'll be exonerated, then convicted, or first convicted, then exonerated, so it's in the legal system." Let me remind you that Investigator Joly has made it very clear that if such things do not end within 6 years, the issue of infringement and decision-making is also at the level of the ECHR. Majhenič, head of the National Investigation Office, said on February 25th this year: "Criminal police recorded or detected by the end of January 16 the sums of so-called bank crimes. The total estimated damage to detected crimes amounted to 779 million. We've closed 138 cases so far, we've filed 96 criminal charges." So I can say, not because of my ex-services, that the police are blinking, a little bit. Majhenič also says: "Just case law will in fact show whether bad banking practices are in fact also criminal offences. The fact is that the suspected bankers and prosecutors measured themselves with the assistance of ten lawyers," and so on. In short, his statement points to the problem and indicates that there will be no great deal in the courts with these allegations. Mr Furlan, who is the head of the specialized prosecutor's office, said this on 27 May this year: "As far as banking crime is concerned, I would like to say that in 2015 we have submitted 8 requests for the investigation of 26 natural persons and 4 charges against 11 persons. This is an illegal asset benefit of about 130 million." One of these cases has also been completed, this is the famous case of Dimic with an exoneration judgment, and we know it. I have to tell the public – especially the public – the truth must come to the public – what we have proposed. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the situation in the area of detecting the prosecution of banking crime related to a bank hole." The coalition says no. Ladies and gentlemen, you said no. Then why are you sitting here today if you said you didn't get to know each other? "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare an analysis of the situation in the area of investigation of banking crime related to a bank hole." The National Assembly therefore proposes to the Government to analyse the situation. You said no, you said no. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the findings of the analysis referred to in point 2 of this Recommendation, draw up a plan of effective measures to accelerate the detection and investigation of banking crime related to the bank hole." It is said that the National Assembly recommends to the Government that, on the basis of the analysis of the situation, a plan be drawn up on how to get to Iceland or, according to home, how to approach at least the model of criminality investigation of the bank hole which has produced fruit in Iceland. You said no to that. We also wanted government representatives to attend the meeting. Fourth conclusion: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report to the National Assembly no later than 30.09.2016 with an analysis and a plan of measures referred to in points 2 and 3 of this Recommendation." You said no to that. I see sober heads within the coalition, and here they answer, and here they say their own. But is it reasonable for the National Assembly to say to the Government that there is no need to do any analysis and that nothing needs to be done about the investigation of the bank hole? Is that reasonable? Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes they said that those who steal money and those who hold the bag are the same, but I think that you are together, that the coalition is an integral part of a planned not to investigate or a poor investigation of the bank hole and all the criminalities on this topic. I am deeply convinced that during the period 2004-2008 a similar meeting would not have happened if the coalition at that time had said that we had not met and that we do not want to accelerate the investigation of the bank hole. Ladies and gentlemen, this is completely incomprehensible, this is completely incomprehensible. We just have to get to it. Of course, another issue arises, this is the issue of our legislation in this area. However, if I recall correctly, in 2013, when KPK was saying goodbye to Mr Klemenčič, Klemenčič wrote a fantastic letter with 13 demands. Point 2 says – I think Mr Klemenčič is here – that the investigation of the bank hole must be carried out immediately, that this must be carried out in a way that is accessible to the public from the point of view of information and that something similar must be done as Iceland has done. Now I wonder what and how. Now that Mr Klemenčič has scissors and canvas, as it is called, at least from the point of view of legislation, this coalition is not ready to even get to know, let alone make a plan at the government level to make this plan come to life, so that this plan will come to practice and that this plan will bring some results. Yeah, but now it's a little funny, once a mask like that, another time a mask. When you're at work A, you have to do this, this, this, this, this, this, very smart and good, but when you're in another job, where you could do it, none of that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my opinion that, according to our assessment and the assessment of the applicants, this is one of the most important subjects of this country. EUR 2500 per citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is a lot of money, 5 billion is a lot. All those who have committed crimes in these 5 billion still walk in Slovenia, still make decisions and still run banks, supervise banks and so on. Mr Klemenčič also wrote about transparent staffing at the time, but a little more about it later, from the bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation is 23. 6. 2016 discussed by the Justice Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposed recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! At its 23rd urgent meeting, the Justice Committee considered the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning procedures for detecting and investigating suspected offences related to so-called banking crime. According to the proposaler – on behalf of Anja Bah Žibert – they are for bad credits, which in most cases represent offences of so-called banking crime, the primary responsible management of the banks which approved such credits, and in Slovenia, unlike Iceland, no one has ever been brought to justice for these crimes, despite additional staffing reinforcements in the ranks of state prosecutors. The Minister of Justice presented the Government's written opinion, stressing his agreement that as a country we are not effective in detecting and prosecuting such crime. The Minister of the Interior added that she also agrees that we have problems, but that the police carry out their tasks seriously and responsibly, with the suspicions of such crimes being dealt with as a priority since 2012, in line with the adopted Economic Crime Control Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. The Director of the National Investigation Office estimates that the competent state prosecutors are good at directing work in predictive procedures and that cooperation with other institutions is also considered by him. The total damage to all recorded crimes is estimated at EUR 815 million and the estimated damage to the completed crimes amounts to EUR 302 million. As a result of the reasonable suspicion of criminal services in this area, 81 criminal charges have been filed by the police for a total of 104 offences. Until 31st. In this area, 82 cases remain pending with estimated damage of €288 million. The Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office further stressed that the prosecution of such economic crime is the priority of the work of the Special Prosecutor's Office and that, until now, there have been requests for an investigation against 55 persons and are currently under indictment 16. At the same time, he expressed the view that neither in the United States nor in the United Kingdom could the same results be achieved as they were achieved in Iceland due to the specifics of this country. In our opinion, it is quite a complication to prove itself because, as a rule, the service of such crimes is required directly. The Vice-Governor further warned that in Slovenia there is a problem of high or extremely high evidentiary standards within criminal law. As has already been said, the Committee has rejected the Government's recommendations, which has also resulted in the completion of the recommendations on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u6	President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues of the Government! You have received a written opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I will not fully take it or read it. I will point out some things that have also crystallized themselves in the debate on the Committee and through the presentation of the proposer. The government does not agree that the debate on the issue that you have highlighted is unnecessary, as all of the representatives of the government on the Committee have also said. We have said, however, that this debate is meaningful and well-concentrated and not intertwined. In other words, the Joint Committee on Internal Affairs and the Committee on Justice have committed all competent authorities to report to the two Committees on progress in this area six months. There is a parliamentary investigation and several pre-trial and criminal proceedings in this area. I think that rejecting these conclusions, although this is not a government matter, does not mean that, however, we do not consider this area to be a priority, on the contrary, and we have repeatedly stressed this. I reiterate what I said on the committee. As a country, we have not been successful in addressing the risks that have led to the bank hole, and we are not yet fully successful in its pursuit. However, my dears, we can change the entire Penal Code, and the amendment to the Penal Code would not change in any way how or could we prosecute crimes that occurred between 2008 and 2013, perhaps even 2014. I was not in the government at the time, and not even most of the Members I see here before me were in power. In his introductory explanation, Dr. Gorenak said that we were at the KPK – by the way, we issued the first report on so-called banking crime – also said that a similar investigation should be carried out as it was carried out in Iceland. We have also done so in 2015 and, above all, it has been very strong against the Systemic Investigations Act, which would have made it possible to do so in part. That is why the law is still in some state of hibernation today, and I believe, as the coalition Members have also announced, that we will awaken it from the dead in the autumn, in our own words. Iceland, as they say, is not me, but the prosecution's representatives on the board is not a good case. Iceland had no tycoons, Iceland had no privatisation, Iceland had no such policy as Slovenia had so far on its left and on its right, and in Iceland they did not fight for patriots and partisans every time we discuss any matter. Therefore, when their banks sank, they were willing to step in together and do what was necessary. This is also supported by this government, but for many reasons it is more difficult. Today we're only talking about criminal liability. Criminal responsibility is one of the responsibilities. The prosecution, the police, in the final phase of Banka Slovenije, we have to admit this, they are doing better than they did in 2013, for example. None of these procedures were yet. Dr. Gorenak is talking about 20 new prosecutors. That's a lie, then there were no employees20 new prosecutors, some were reassigned. I mean, it was totally over, it wasn't there. The government of Alenka Bratušek promised and provided the first funds for 30 new jobs in the prosecution, and then the government did. At the time of the government of Janez Janša and Minister Vink Gorenak – who, by the way, was the only minister to unite both the prosecution and the police — nothing happened. We have amended the Police Act, which has slightly weakened the jurisdiction and autonomy of the NPU. These are the facts. Criminal responsibility is one today and you heard on the committee that we have other people in Banka Slovenije. We have Dr. Meiro Festić, with whom we work well, with whom authorities are well involved in detection and prosecution and is in charge of this area. We have an inappropriately strengthened Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, we have an inadequately strengthened National Investigation Office. Is that enough, or is that enough? Not for me as a citizen, but for the minister, but for the government, I hope that we will never get to such a government – which could judge, sue and accuse instead of detection and prosecution bodies, we cannot have and do so. We are obliged to defend systemic, human resources and financial measures, in this area we are working hard and you also have the direct steps that have been taken, specifically mentioned in the Government's position. The Banking Act has changed significantly. What happened at the time when the regulator actually dropped the ball and, directly or indirectly, allowed what happened to happen to happen to me today, I believe or hope that it could no longer happen because the legislation in this area is much more restrictive and other people are also in positions of responsibility. Indemnity liability. In 2013, no civil action was brought against former members of administrations and supervisors who were coming, by the way, from different parties and were brought by different governments. The bank hole didn't just happen under the rule of the left province. We have to be honest here, too. But it certainly did not happen, I repeat, under a government in which in any way I or most of the people here were involved. For several billion, compensation is currently before civil courts. Judicial practice is not yet such as to be able to speak in which direction we will go and go. That's one of the reasons why I don't get to sleep if I tell you the truth, but the decisions of the courts have to be respected. Professional responsibility is closely linked to the way state property is managed. It is not an old party in the Republic of Slovenia that does not control KAD, SOD or SDH at a certain point and set up supervisory and management bodies in the Slovenian State Banks, one way or another. Have we done enough here? I don't know, this is what my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance are going to talk about, and certain steps in the right direction have certainly been taken. Finally, the finger often points to the courts. I understand that trust in their work is relatively small. I understand that they are facing exceptional challenges in relation to how the procedures will be conducted in connection with so-called banking crime, particularly banking crime in state banks. The final judgment is still premature. Why? Because the bulk of these cases are currently under investigation, the pre-trial proceedings and have not yet been subject to judicial judgements. One or two of them. In the autumn, the Ministry of Justice will pass on new amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which will attempt to address certain challenges, including in this area, before this honourable assembly. I hope that again, as we say, we will revive the debate on the law on systematic investigations. At the latest in autumn, the Government will also decide whether it is possible to optimise the functioning of specialised sections of the courts, which now exist in four key courts – in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and Koper – and where these key cases are involved, or whether we must take a step towards a single centralised specialised court in matters of economic and organised crime. We take these things carefully, so that we do not undermine with our left hand what we have done with our right hand – or vice versa, because it doesn't matter, but I am leftist in the way we write it – so that we don't take any reforms in the wrong direction and the procedures that are going on are not going any further. So much for now. We have agreed with our colleagues, the State Secretaries of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, that they will then be involved in the debate and also present specific figures from their fields. It is a fact that this is difficult to discuss if we do not have people working directly on these things, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Bank of Slovenia. I can't speak for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Minister, the Secretary of State and my colleague. Welcome also to the Members and Members! Your Honor! We rejected the recommendations in the Desus Group at the meeting of the parent working body. Although we believe that they carry some kind of message value that we agree with, in the view of the Government that we have received, and according to the explanations at the meeting, we believe that the plan of measures to investigate banking crime is good and that appropriate legislative measures have also been taken. These were quite a few. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code established higher penalties for corruption offences against the economy and against official duty. Last year, a new Banking Act was adopted which provides that the Bank must provide data protected as bank secrecy when requested in writing by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or in writing by the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police for the purpose of carrying out a pre-trial or criminal procedure. The new Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has established an obligation for persons who, with DUTB in an administrative relationship, have established a declaration of duty. These persons will have to report to the detection authorities any criminal offence they have been informed of or otherwise have committed. The possibility of abuse of the Institute of Liabilities in the context of personal bankruptcy and so on has been limited. This does not mean that we disagree with the proposer, even in the workplace, when he compares Slovenia with Iceland with regard to the resolution of the bank hole and related banking crime. It is true that in us more than 2 and a half years after more than 5 billion recapitalisation of banks, the situation is by no means similar to that of Iceland. As a country in the detection and prosecution of banking crime, we are not currently sufficiently effective. We may be too busy dealing with the situation backwards, but in this case the Konrad Adenauer River applies: Looking into the past makes sense only if it serves the future, so it is important, respected and respected, that we also include in these discussions the element of preventing these phenomena in the future. As far as the recommendations are concerned, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up an opinion from the Government, which consists of their work, from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance. This report, if we can call it that, still gives us hope that banking crime will disappear in the future and that actions from the past will be properly sanctioned. In addition, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, it seems important to us that individuals subject to the shadow of doubt, even if they have not yet been convicted legally, do not enjoy the confidence to manage our assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u9	Mr Jan Škoberne, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u10	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! At the 25th anniversary of our statehood, which we celebrate this year, of course, we also have the opportunity to look at the key events and processes that marked the fourth century of our independence. There are many good and commendable events, but there are also some that do not fall within the category of those for whom we would like to repeat ourselves or, rather, fall into the category of those for whom it would be better not to happen. Part of this is the greed of the Slovenian transitional quasi-economic establishment, due to the arrogance and shamelessness of which every Slovenian taxpayer on average had to contribute around EUR 2 000 500 for the recapitalisation of banks, the transfer of poor claims to the DUTB and the write-off of subordinated financial instruments, totalling around EUR 5 billion. In an important part, this cost is not only due to the low morals of some, but also to criminal offences that are prosecuted under official responsibility. Since these are extremely high amounts, which have also significantly hampered the stability and development potential of the Slovenian economy and, worse still, have also exerted great pressure on solidarity and social security systems, there is more than justifiable expectation of citizens and citizens, all of us, that banking crime will not remain unpunished and that looting clicks will then be subject to appropriate and appropriate sanctions. The police statistics show that by the end of May it had detected and recorded 236 crimes, of which 154 were completed, with which banks were injured. The total damage to all recorded crimes amounts to EUR 815 million and the estimated damage to 302 million. As a result of the reasonable suspicion of criminal services in this area, 81 criminal charges have been filed by the police for a total of 104 offences. Since these are extremely difficult cases and because of the specificities of our judicial system, at least according to prosecutors, it is almost as difficult in practice to reach an indictment, the time-effectiveness of prosecution is such that everyone wants it to be quicker and, above all, more visible. However, because of this fact and, once again, the extreme complexity of the prosecution of such crimes may be in spite of the hard work of police officers and prosecutors, creating an unjustified impression that things are standing and that nothing is happening. According to the information provided on the parental committee, cooperation between law enforcement authorities is good and persecution takes place within the capacity and circumstances. It is a wish – I believe that not only our parliamentary group, but probably most citizens and citizens – that the persecution that is taking place today will end in due time, by condemning all those who, because of their own greed, have fallen down on the edge of the enemy foreign takeover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The combined left does not support the proposed recommendations. Of course, the reason is not to protect criminals, but that recommendations will not contribute to more effective persecution. The only real effect of such discussions is to shed light on the real causes of the crisis of Slovenian capitalism. I will therefore define myself further to the proposals and direct alternative measures. At the outset, I must provide a political analysis of the proposal and of this debate, which is far from the first. Practically since 1991, when wild property began, we have been discussing damage to social property. Even though we know who once ran the country and the state-owned companies, together with the banks, no one ever answers. This is expected, according to our assessment. On the one hand, it is clear that the people who took advantage of the privatisations of part of the establishment and crow are simply not eyes excluded. On the other hand, most transactions are legal. Capitalism is just a system of private income and property acquisition. Transition is only the first phase, the initial distribution of wealth, and the enrichment of the minority at the expense of most is not an excess, but a law of capitalism. So it's not surprising that no one ever answers. It is surprising that the political class, with every new wave of privatisation, launches a new wave, ending once again with damage to state property and the decommissioning of citizens and again no one answers. If any coalition really wanted to eliminate the main cause of economic crime, it should stop the privatisation of the economy and the commercialisation of the country. Of course, it will not do that, because the privatisation of gold is a pit for domestic capital elites and foreign investors, i.e. for those privileged groups supported by all governments so far. However, if this harassment has a function, it is a disguise of the underlying causes of the crisis. If citizens do not know the real causes of the crisis, for the current situation, it is easier to convince them that there are no alternatives. If there are no alternatives, then the people in the elections elect the elected parties. However we turn, there are the main causes of the current state of three. First, the worst crisis of world capitalism since World War II. Second, I'll take the euro. And thirdly, the wrong economic policy of the first Janshea government. With regard to taking over the euro, that's all I'd point out. Following a decision on brexit, our leaders have just competed with each other in loyalty to the European Union. In fact, Slovenia is a typical example of a country whose accession to the European Union has not brought development and prosperity, but rather of lagging behind and a lost decade, which has been dragging forward with us since 2005. From 1993 to EU accession, Slovenia continuously reached the centre of the European Union after GDP. She did this even without being in debt abroad. As of August 2005, Slovenia was a net creditor abroad; public debt was below 30%; public deficit was below the Maastricht limits. In 2005, a significant number of people were employed than in 1993. However, the euro's takeover was followed by a lost decade. This was not only a Slovenian problem, but the same problems with the euro have proved to be true in all similarly developed countries, particularly in Greece, Portugal and Spain. I've told this story many times, but I'm going to rebuild it. In 2007, credits to companies in Slovenia increased by 30% annually as a result of the euro takeover. In 2008, the deficit in the balance of payments was 5.4% of GDP and the net external debt increased by only three years, from 2005 to 2008, by 10 billion euros. This debt was then paid to the economy in the form of loans and was the main reason for the creation of the so-called bank hole. Therefore, insistence on the euro and neoliberalism as the only true path is not only absurd but also destructive. Members of the SDS wrote, inter alia, in their explanation: "It is clear that such a large bank hole has occurred, in particular, due to the granting of so-called bad loans or the granting of loans without adequate collateral." It's clearly a hoax. In 2006, SDS Members adopted a takeover law allowing credit for acquisitions by setting up acquisition shares, which is one of the main reasons for loans without adequate collateral. At that point, maybe the loans did not look bad, but the emergence of the crisis and the wrong economic policy made bad loans on this basis. Insurance has become too low due to the collapse of the real estate and securities market. Slovenian economists have unanimously condemned this wrong economic policy of the first Janša government. They are listed in the document Causes of Capital Deficit of Banks issued by Banka Slovenije last March on the basis of a decision proposed by SDS. In those years, the government of Janša should implement countercyclical measures in agreement with Banka Slovenije, and it acted the other way around – it reduced taxes on capital, high incomes and paid wages. Although the economy has already been so overwhelmed by foreign loans, it has granted a lot of debt to Dars abroad with a state guarantee. In 2007, the government committed itself abroad to pay its obligations to domestic banks, even though they were already too liquid. The results were devastating. Between 2005 and 2008, 60,000 new jobs have been created, but all of these jobs have disappeared in the first two years of the crisis and in 2015 there are still 18 000 500 fewer jobs in Slovenia than in 2005. That's how the lost decade began. I would point out, however, that all of this was more legal and far more fateful than all banking crime. We can also confirm that with numbers. During the first Janša government, corporate indebtedness increased by EUR 13 billion. On the other hand, the estimated damage to banking crime is 15 times lower, with no percentage of which has yet been proven before the court. Even now it is clear that political responsibility, including banking crime, is borne by the first government of Janša. Companies such as Mercury, Vegrad, SCT and Mercator were not sold alone. They were sold by the Government, Kad and the Court. The government decided who would be members of the NLB and NKBM Supervisory Boards and could change administrations at any time. In short, the SDS, which gave this initiative, controlled both the supply and the demand for credit in those days. So much for the credibility of these proposals. Finally, I will identify myself until the technical aspect of these recommendations and indicate an alternative solution. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u13	Please be my guest.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u14	We cannot support the first point because the National Assembly will not be more familiar with the area of detection of banking crime than it would be without it. What we have learned from the Government is at the level of answers to parliamentary questions. We also cannot support other points because the preparation of the analysis – we did not support – would hinder work on a project that would actually be useful, and this is a law on systematic investigations. Here we stress that the aircraft shows that the government has not done what it should have done and that it will have to do more. Therefore, I repeat our request that the Government complete the Law on Systemic Investigation in a State Interest Project by September 15th, which was also supported by Members of the United Left in the first reading last July. This law would provide a real basis for investigations and I do not understand why the Government does not work on this proposal, although the first reading was confirmed and although this law is still among the normative measures taken by the Government. But there's something clear. Without exceptional legal remedies, the story of the bank hole will end the same way that other places of the century ended. Cases that have ended with a legal judgment can be counted against the fingers of one hand and illegal property will never be returned to the citizens. But under the line, we need to know clearly what the causes of the crisis are, why bad loans have been made. In the second phase, however, we call on the Government to finally draw up a law on systematic investigations, since only this can be a real basis for this story to be fully investigated and those responsible are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u16	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Under the Bank of Slovenia Banka Slovenije Act, the central institution is responsible for overseeing the banking system. In Novi Slovenije we have repeatedly stressed that in the past Banka Slovenije has failed to perform its supervisory functions, resulting in the formation of a bank hole. The existence of such a situation has also been greatly assisted by a lack of legislation regulating the status and powers of the Bank of Slovenia, in particular in view of the greater responsibility of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The fact is that neither the governor nor the vice-governors can be called to account, not because of illegal work, nor because of the serious breach or omission of their duties, or because of that reason, they cannot be relieved of their functions prematurely. We have already witnessed when members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia deceived us, Members and the public in their annual reports and oral explanations. Let us recall the claim of former Governor Mark Kranjc and also vice-governors that we have a sound and reliable banking system and that there are no grounds for concern. We Members of the Bank of Slovenia, of course, had to believe such reports, because we do not have the possibility to verify the reality of such reports due to the Institute of Banking Confidentiality. No member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia is ever and will never be responsible for such fraud to the public and Members, as there is no legal basis for it. Does the existence of such a supervisor make sense at all? Let's take a look at some facts. At a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on 26 February 2016, the Governor of Banka Slovenije explained in the debate on the situation in our banking system that, at the time of the recapitalisation of banks in 2013, the situation of poor loans was between EUR 11 and 12 billion, i.e. more than the total annual state budget. The current situation of bad credits in our mostly state banks is still nearly €6 billion, although DUTB has been set up to manage bad loans and banks have had the opportunity to clear their balance sheets and transfer all bad claims to a bad bank. The logical question follows: Why did they not do so? In view of the critical situation in banking, Banka Slovenije would be expected to take all the necessary measures available under the Banking Act, thereby preventing the emergence of a new bank hole. For these reasons, we have also supported solutions in Novi Slovenije, which will enable the Court of Auditors to review the Bank of Slovenia's efficiency and economic performance, and also to propose the discharge of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia in the event of serious violations. There is no doubt that today the area of responsibility of supervisors over the banking system is insufficiently regulated in our legislation. The political staffing of supervisors and members of administrations in state banks also requires the responsibility of those who have proposed them. We Christian Democrats are convinced that this is a typical case of systemic corruption, which is also the responsibility of the President of the Government, who has not reacted and acted so far. The case of Iceland is eloquent. If there is a genuine will and interest to solve the bank hole and the related banking crime, immediate solutions and legal proceedings shall be found. See, Iceland has managed, without special economic knowledge, to condemn and seize, within a few years, the illegally acquired assets of almost 80% of those responsible for the bank hole. For this work, their government has even allocated financial resources to a special group. What about us? Besides the opposition, no one moves, nor does the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the state of the country, detect the alarm. Or it does not want to be detected, despite the fact that we have already earmarked more than €5 billion by taxpayers to save state banks. It is a terrible fact that in Slovenia, because of so-called bad loans and a bank hole, no one has ever been convicted before at first stage. Well, we can also understand that if those responsible convince us that some bad loans have been granted on the basis of the so-called "soft criteria" and that it is not a crime. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that fast and effective judicial procedures reflect a democratic and successful society with clear decision-making patterns in all proceedings, that is, professional conduct of procedures that do not give the appearance of different treatments of the various accused with the aim of fair and reasonable swift trial and sanctioning crimes. We therefore call for the immediate incrimination of systemic corruption and all its emerging forms. Otherwise, those responsible for creating another bank hole will not be responsible for their actions and decisions. If we wait for judicial practice, as the Director of the National Investigation Office says, Mr Darko Majhenič, then we keep the status quo and leave the door open. We regret, however, that the proposed recommendations were not supported at the meeting of the Committee in the Member State of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u18	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why the debate on financial crime? Because the damage to this kind of crime is not visible. If an ordinary citizen is robbed, stolen, injured immediately, immediately knows what the damage is and what it is to do. In financial crime, we do not see direct damage, but we see indirect damage, which means it is not for schools, but people have to pay for school and in the future we will pay full education. There is no infrastructure, because we see that there is no money for the second track, and there is no money for the functioning of public services. This is a waste of this financial crime. On the one hand, the rich are getting richer and the poorer are getting poorer. At the time of financial crime, some have become well - off. We're trying to stop this. We're trying to track the financial flows that went to the tax havens, as shown by the Panamanian documents, and find that property that caused this kind of bank hole through financial crime. Now we're at that second stage, when this kind of money comes back through straw companies and the cheap ones buy it through bankruptcy procedures that have committed this kind of crime. We are trying to prevent this, and we have always tabled proposals for amendments to the laws, both with regard to SDH, banking legislation and everything else in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Unfortunately, however, most of these proposals have not been adopted. Why detection and investigation? Because it's only part of preventing financial crime. First of all, we need the political will that everyone has before the elections, and then what is really, but it's completely different. The work of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. What about the other part? In terms of financial and banking crime, this is detected, prevented, challenged and represented by financial institutions – DURS, former FURS, Anti-Money Laundering Office and all offices and agencies of the Ministry of Finance. However, the Ministry of Finance deals with completely different matters. Then where are we supposed to prevent her? Prevention cannot be praised, so it is not the government's interest to implement preventive mechanisms. Let us look at the responsibility that follows. Today we are talking mainly about criminal responsibility, for which are the leading institutions of the police and the prosecution, and in the end the court which condemns them. Where is compensation responsibility and even less that career or positional responsibility? We can see that those people who were involved in financial crime are taking on key functions. This has been pointed out in SDH’s staffing — the supervisory board, the administration and, as a result, all further staffing. This is important, what a picture and what a model we give to citizens, especially what the Government does and how it sets an example for citizens. If we look at what the government has done, the government speaks one thing and executes another. It is about not showing the results of the police and the prosecution, which was the proposal of today's debate. It does not participate actively in meetings, ministers, secretaries do not attend meetings, even less, do not support the proposals and solutions proposed at the meetings. We know what the problem was with the appointment of the Commission to investigate the bank hole when the coalition refused to approach such solutions. Moreover, if we were to monitor the developments around the police contract, we saw that overnight, suddenly, the coalition contract dropped the proposal to investigate the bank hole and then returned to the pressure of the media. There is no cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia, which has recently proposed better solutions. All of this points to the government's inactivity. What, though, is the second stage, below, if we have said that many problems arise in the investigation? What was suggested? It was suggested that an analysis should be made of the situation that gives rise to where we are and where the problems are – where the problems of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary are, in particular, financial institutions, whether they know or not to file complaints, what is missing here, how to prove all the signs of the crime, where the compensation is, what other countries have done, what is positive here, what is positive in the Icelandic case, something certainly is, something in the neighbouring state of Austria. Then we could look at everything that works abroad and what works with us, then implement it into legislation, try to see if it works, and put in an appropriate response based on feedback. These are the solutions that we have proposed, and that is why we needed today's conclusions that the coalition did not want to confirm. What causes the government to do so? This makes it possible for those who have caused a bank hole and have become rich with financial crime to expect to be able to do similar things again in the same way. In the first financial crime, the government offered such people a so-called security net, captured and covered by taxpayers this bank hole. This is expected again, since no one has been punished, no one has responded with his property and is still in possession of these positions. It is said that the state offered a safety net or safety net and no one answered. This is expected if the Government does not act. On the other hand, the government boasts that nothing needs to be done because GDP is growing. Similarly, GDP grew during the time of the biggest financial crime. If we look at other indicators, we see they're negative. Economic performance is negative, income inequality is increasing, government efficiency and competence are falling. Government through the so-called appearance of whitewash or washing, polishing and editing of data shows an entirely different state that no action is necessary. We need concrete measures to resolve the matter. We can take concrete measures based on an analysis of the situation, based on an analysis of the problems and if we recognize what more we can do with the institutions concerned. Of course, the period of restrictive measures, the privatisation of the police, the privatisation of the judiciary and the rest, which the Government advocates, leads only in the opposite direction. We must reflect the government's defence mechanisms, which try to discredit those who point out mistakes, those who report pressures, threats we have seen in the Dars case, in the case of Luke Koper and so on, and minimize warnings mainly from the opposition. Recruiting the right people to key places is the answer people are expecting. A career built on which a person takes a place that is trusted and will be able to achieve the desired goals, but lately we see that this recruitment is going in the opposite direction. It all started with the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board, which consequently meant that there was no supervision of banks and no supervision of financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u19	Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members, representatives of the ministries and all others present! The proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding procedures for detecting and investigating suspected crimes related to so-called banking crime was submitted to us for adoption. The Committee on Justice rejected him as a mother labourer, because we were members of the SMC involved. I am sure that all of us here agree that banking crime or, as we like to call it, a bank hole in Slovenia has caused Slovenian economy or all taxpayers enormous irreparable damage. Because of the complexity of these crimes and the difficulties we have in detecting, prosecuting and prosecuting suspects and the consequences of these acts, we can now reasonably conclude that this resulting financial damage is likely to never be completely eliminated. But there's something we can figure out. It is the fact that law enforcement and investigation bodies study these actions professionally, with commitment and responsibility. We were also able to hear this on the Committee on Justice when we considered the proposed conclusions. The Criminal Police, and in particular the National Investigation Office, have been very careful and planned in 2012 to investigate and detect economic crimes, and in particular criminal offences in the field of banking crime. The emphasis on the priority investigation of the suspicions of such crimes stems from both the Economic Crime Control Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia and from all other ministries. It should be borne in mind that the collection of evidence and the examination of various forms of business documentation are a major problem, and the cooperation of banks is of course essential. With this awareness, an agreement was concluded in 2014 on police cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia has also established a special inspection group, which also helps to identify irregularities in banking crime or irregularities in banking practices. In specific operational matters, cooperation with other national authorities is also taking place, in particular with the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Much has also been done in the normative area, which is in the case of amendments to existing legislation, so that matters called a bank hole will not be repeated. Let me just count a few. The Penal Code has established higher penalties for corruption crimes against the economy and against official duty, and has extended the limitation period for corruption offences from 10 to 20 years. The Banking Act laid down that the Bank must provide data protected as bank secrecy, provided that such data is required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or that they are required in writing by the Court, the State Prosecutor or the police, because of the conduct of a pre-trial or criminal procedure, unless the law expressly provides for the order of the investigating judge for the transmission of confidential data. The Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks has highlighted the legal obligation of persons who are legally bound by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims known as the DUTB. These persons must report to the detection authorities any offence they have been informed of or otherwise have been committed in connection with the bank receiving the measures. The Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, adopted in the National Assembly this June, will provide the competent authorities with effective instruments and powers to deal with the banking crisis in advance, to protect financial stability and to reduce taxpayers' exposure to losses, and will also contribute to the responsible management of banks. We have also heard the Minister of Justice, who has announced the amendment of the Penal Code, there will also be an amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which will contribute to the treatment of domestic crimes. Only the most experienced prosecutors deal with banking crimes. On the Committee on Justice, we listened to the Director of the National Investigation Office, representatives of the specialized prosecutor's office. We agree that the situation in this area is still not good, it should be better, but it should be borne in mind that the results have already been achieved this year, as some media-distorted cases have received a judicial epilogue in the form of a legal story. Yes, these were so-called tycoon stories, but it was on the Justice Committee that the Attorney General reminded us that we were pessimistic about the persecution of so-called tycoons, and yet we experienced at least some legal legal epilogues, and stated that we could expect a similar event to happen to those who committed the bank hole in the future. This, however, can give us a little more optimism. Members and Members of the SMC Group believe that the results so far show that the competent authorities have taken action to solve the problem but are not fully effective. We all agree that this is not fully effective. However, I do not believe that the conclusions proposed to all of us at the Committee on Justice for adoption cannot make a significant contribution to improving this situation and that is why we have not supported them at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. Thank you. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Anže Logar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u22	Thank you, Chairman. It saddens me that there is no Minister of Justice in these introductory presentations. A fair debate on the prosecution of banking crime is needed. Can't the Minister say that the bank hole didn't happen under the government that he was involved in anyway, I think that's what he said. If the Ministry of the Interior were to amend the Penal Code between 2008 and 2009 by June 2010, it would be only in Probank and Factor Bank for some 10 million less bank holes. If Minister Klemenčič was a minister or a minister at the time, and he was a government secretary of state, he would not vote or confirm the 100 million-dollar bond guarantee for the Bank's bond, the taxpayers' cost of repairing the bank would be 100 million euros lower. So today he cannot come here and say that he is not responsible for the history of the bank hole. When it comes to the debate on the bank hole, I think it is necessary to pour quite a clean wine on this matter. The key question is whether we want to detect and sanction the culprits or not. Two years after the start of the resolution of the banking system – that is, from September 2013 to December 2013 until the start of the government of Mir Cerar – this wish was not particularly strong. Is it today? We now have a government that is in power for two years, and we can already bill for its work. Now let's take a look at what the government has answered our request for construction. I will quote you on two issues, one by the Ministry of the Interior and one by the judiciary: "The NPU is 27. 5. 2015 organised internal training on the subject of credit accounting and weaknesses in banks. It was used for investigators involved in the investigation of banking crime." Those who are investigating the bank hole can be known from the outset that the accounting of credits and weaknesses in banks is the basis of banking transactions. So why don't you ask me my next question? 27. 5. 2015 – Training on the basis of banking for a bank hole, which took place in 2013. Do you think it's a two-year delay when you start training those who should pursue banking, active banking crime? Next, from March to December 2016, a focus series of seminars and workshops on economic crime will be carried out at the Justice Centre of the Ministry of Justice in line with the Minister's instructions. From March to December 2016 Three years after the bank hole is formed, those who pursue it should be informed of the basics of persecution. I had to read twice the tape of the debate on the Justice Committee, where Minister Györkös said: "Maybe I would just add here in view of these recommendations that have been made, that somehow I assess that there is one component missing here that is essential, perhaps we are too busy dealing with the situation behind us." €5 billion, €2,500 per person, when one of the most responsible people – the Minister of the Interior – says that we are too busy with the past, let us look to the future. Has this not made it very clear that one of the most responsible executive branches of power has forgotten what has happened and that we will do everything we can to ensure that this will not happen in the future? But you know what it's like to have these sanctions if you don't punish whoever did this, next time 10 will be those who will sin because they don't expect any sanctions. So today, indeed, the question is whether it is the sincere will of those who have scissors and linen in their hands to examine something. Today we have banks that have received state aid and have not filed any criminal charges. Not a single criminal complaint. Moreover, the employees of the Bank are expected to receive, for example, work performance allowances in a short time. Has anyone been looking into it? Who's studying this? The government in favour of rejecting our proposals quotes the Bank of Slovenia's investigative inspection team as dealing with the analysis of individual cases and predictive or criminal proceedings and the appearance of criminal suspicions and abuses in banking. Why don't you say that this same group is already wondering whether it makes sense to continue? When banks in their investigation request the authorities to express the injured person’s will, they say that they have suffered the damage, they say that no damage has been caused. Then the Special Prosecutor's Office does not press charges for this and other reasons. Does the government deal with this? Did they sit together looking for emergency solutions? If you are quoting the Bank of Slovenia, why not quote the statement from the last meeting of the Justice Committee? There the representative of Banka Slovenije Zadravec Caprirolo said: "The Bank of Slovenia would agree with the possibility if this were to be done in the same way as we have the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, where the concentrated prosecutors are with the knowledge of the assessment of harmful banking practices in order to have a specialized state court. Although we do not have a mandate and do not have the authority to decide on it, we would be pleased to have such initiatives and to form such a court, because this would probably take place more quickly." Why isn't the Minister of Justice defined by this idea? Why does it not reach into this debate and move quickly in terms of organising procedures for faster prosecution of crime? Previously, the minister said proudly that he was a leftist, both peeing and world-class, but I wonder if a leftist can work with banking crime with his left hand. Probably not, it takes both hands and it takes everyone who is in their interest and who must be in the interest that banking crime is being pursued, to do everything in their power to move this persecution forward as quickly as possible. This house has made progress. Compare the debate during the Pogačnik Commission and during this investigative commission. At the time, some were satisfied that the institutions, including the Bank of Slovenia, had refused to seize the documents and that the courts had non-chalantly acted on the request for seizure of the documents. Nor did they want to adopt a partial report before the end of the term of office of the National Assembly. Today, however, this is different. But what about the government? Has the government made this important change? Is it available to speed up procedures? If I were to conclude on the basis of two things, namely the position of the Minister – who, at the Constitutional Opinion of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, when the District Court of Inquiry in Ljubljana said that the Law on Parliamentary Investigation was unconstitutional, gave Desha Cener the same, and the fact that the Government had proposed that these decisions proposed by the SDS Group and the Group of Non-Aligned Members should be rejected or not voted down, I would say that no, that the Government did not demonstrate its sincere will after the prosecution of banking crime. However, if we ask the third branch of power, the judiciary, and I think we have a rather uniform position, both on the part of the National Assembly and on the part of the Government. But if we want to restore people's confidence in this country, the culprits will have to be sanctioned for the biggest bank hole in the history of independent Slovenia. If the government or the judiciary still does not see this as a subject, or if it seems to them to be such a minor subject, trust in the country will remain or fall on this issue. Each of the three branches of government must do its part. More than this debate in the National Assembly, more than the pressure of the National Assembly and individual parliamentary groups, and more than this debate, the climate in the country will be more easily created, where it will be clear that the culprits must answer for the bank hole. To this end, we have also prepared this material in our parliamentary group. I regret to say that the coalition has failed to make this mental leap and to support the conclusions that we have proposed, which are taken from no one, only give to the Slovenian public and to all those who are engaged in it. But I believe that there will be a great deal of this debate, and I hope that common sense will prevail in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much. However, before the Minister escapes or leaves again, I will have to take a look at the discussions of some editorials and ministers. Maybe before that. When Icelandic investigator Joly talked about how she worked, what problems they faced, how they worked, and how they led to, as it were, an investigation, if we can say, 80 percent of their bank hole and people were brought to prison, not before prison, but also to prison, she said: "We have received very rude offers from investigators. So we've been getting very rude offers from those we've been investigating." What should most likely be under scrutiny in the Slovenian space is the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank, where it is most of all. But this story was already dealt with by KPK during the time of Mr Klemenčič and Mr Praprotenik. They found that there was something very wrong in the whole matter, they did not say a name, but finally Mr Praprotnik was employed in the Ljubljana Bank. It's a typical case of a rude offer, but she didn't make it through Iceland, and she went through with us. When we discussed this in this National Assembly – I don't know if this coalition was or was the previous one, I don't know any more – I think it was this – you've clearly rejected all our recommendations on this subject, that is, the employment of this gentleman who once investigated, but now, I guess, man can't imagine anything but protecting the bank hole and those who caused it, given that he's been hired there. And that's when you rejected all the conclusions. Mr. Secretary, this is the case. You're talking about the Systemic Investigations Act and how we grunted on this side. First, you were robbed by the Legal and Legal Service, which wrote about half a page of comments on every article of the law you wrote. In the end, the text of the Legal and Legislative Service was longer than the text of your law. If you have prepared such a law, then do not report to the opposition that it is grunting, but first refer to the government, because what the Government's Legislative Service has said, we have not been able to win, but I believe that it is not such amateurs to let this matter go through. You also received countless comments in the National Assembly, so this law is probably now standing, not because of the opposition. But the Systemic Investigations Act won't solve any problems. If it were adopted in the form you suggested, it cannot solve the single problem we are talking about today. Why? Because there you are proposing some kind of commission of inquiry with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Investigative Commissions have a National Assembly, as far as I know, you are proposing to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where criminals, prosecutors, judges, financial experts and so on will be. In your marriage, you wrote five people who could lead such groups. It's interesting that there's a KPK chief among them, because he had to be, and then he could lead. What are they gonna do to you? If criminals and judges and prosecutors at the time of work, when they had all the power to investigate a bank hole, did nothing or did very little, I don't know what they would have done without authorization in such investigations as you're proposing with the Systemic Investigations Act. You said Iceland wasn't a good case. Tell me better and I'll sign right under what you say. But Icelandic investigators investigated 80% of the bank's hole and the agents are in prison. Now you're saying this isn't a good case. I hope you'll give us a better case. Mr. Klemenčič, I could have asked for three hours if I were to talk about your lies. You accused me of lying. If I talk about yours, I have three hours too little, and I invite you to read something on my website, you'll find something else there. I didn't say our government hired 20 prosecutors. When did I say that? I argued – look at the magnetogram and you will see – that at the time of our government there were about 20 new employees of the National Investigation Office, as many as there were. I said that it was later – I think I used the word later – and the 20 prosecutors employed, I think during this government. So I don't know why you're turning your words around. There's no reason for you to turn your words around. But if they were employed during this government and those investigators during the time of our government, the result is not or is a sizzling result. You said there are no prosecutors here, there are no representatives of Banka Slovenije investigators, and I don't know who else. We asked for the presence of these people in our request. I don't know why they're gone, it's a matter of government and them. At least if the ministers were sitting here — let's say financially and internally — not yet. But I think that the Rules of Procedure prevent these people from being debated in plenary, so we are not responsible. Mrs Porotatova said – you must be an artist – that they agree with the conclusions, but they reject them. It's art. How's it going together? You must really be an artist. We agreed with the conclusions, but we reject them. God help me, I really don't know how to interpret this. She went on to talk about how we are not effective enough, but Iceland is not comparable because that is what Mr Klemenčič said. Tell me who's comparable, who's better than Iceland. Of course, on behalf of Desus, Mrs Porotatov says that individuals do not enjoy the confidence to manage our assets. How nice of you to say. Then why do you vote for such solutions in Desus? What, then, does Mr. Erjavec do in the government that appoints such overseers and so forth if they do not enjoy your trust? Tell him that, tell him that, not put people like him who dug a bank hole in the top of the banking system or the bank's control system. Mr Škoberne also had, how can I say, a very nice performance, a person would applaud that the police had done something — and he listed — and so on and so forth. He finally announced the SD's wishes. Your wishes are also our desires. But we have proposed some conclusions to make these wishes come true, and you are against these conclusions. It doesn't work together. Either you're tt or you're mish, they say in Styrian, and you can't both be. You can still be a bat. But talking to Mr Mesec doesn't make any sense, I don't know if it makes any sense. Probably not, but there's something I need to tell him. He said the euro was responsible for all the problems of this country, Spain, Italy, Greece and I do not know what else. It's the euro's fault. He knows because by the time the euro preparers knew what he would look like, he was still working in the sandstone, and today he is talking nonsense about the euro. Of course, he is also talking about the disastrous economic policy of the first Janša government, and he lists 10 billion, and that what Mencinger once counted 30 billion in this period, but he has forgotten the essential story, which is that it is household loans, that it is corporate loans and so on, which the government certainly decides. Those of you who were close to the government, you know that's not for the government to decide. Then what does the government have to do with Gorenje's loan? Nothing, but it sounds good, Yang's government, but that's okay, sounds good. That is why, of course, this gentleman speaks such nonsense that he sums up according to Mr Mencinger, who once said that we would eat grass if we gained our independence, but today he is the first commentator of national television for economic advertising. You have to be the stupidest person to be the first commentator. Of course, they support the Systemic Investigations Act. Once again, I reiterate that the Systemic Investigations Act cannot solve anything because such an investigation group within the Government does not have enforceable powers. He doesn't have the authority to file a criminal complaint. He does not have the authority to bring the indictment together; he does not have the power to judge; this is what some other authorities, namely the judicial authorities, do. Then why make such a cow out of it and finally think that this marriage will save everything? This marriage won't save anything. Mrs Murgel, who is not again, said that it was a great shame that the damage would not be reimbursed, but that the authorities were working in a responsible and professional manner. Okay, the authorities are working responsibly and professionally, and there's no banker on the Visit. What are they doing there? What are they doing? When there's one "tick" of bankers on the Visit, they'll work responsibly and professionally until there's so many of them there, but they don't work responsibly and professionally. Yes, gentlemen of the SMC, as I say, don't be so full of yourself in rejecting our proposals. Last time I told you, after the next election, you'd be a fichot, and that's according to optimistic predictions. But you're acting like you've swallowed up your mind in this world, and that's how the Prime Minister behaves. Even though Mr Janša is here now, I will say so. We were the first and only one to say anything about the British exit, when he was just dreaming of something else, and now he is not even ready for someone who led the European Union to come to the meeting of the President of the country where he invites him. Now this "self-filled" self-inflicted, self-inflicted, just how else would I say, I don't know what term to use, but this is an absolutist, this is a dictator, asking why he would go to the president of the country, because there would be a leader of the opposition who once led the European Union. [[…]] Do you see a mistake? When this Mr Moon speaks of that wrong economic policy, ladies and gentlemen, wages and pensions increased by 25% between 2004 and 2008. It is true that inflation, which was also strong at the time, took an important part, but it is not normal for you to then "shimphate" to criticize the period that was actually economically successful, which was successful for people, which meant employment, which meant higher pensions, which meant wages and so on. Is that why this was a bad time? You have to be really scared to say something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Dr. László Göncz and Mr Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u26	Nicely greeted! When the Minister resigned or disbanded the KPK, you said it was possible to find the culprits within one year, following the example of Iceland. Today I listened to you and you said, "My dears, we can change the whole code, and there will be no success." I know that some of the laws have already been amended, and I know that certain properties are being sold to strengthen the functioning of the judiciary. Then I wonder why we don't actually get the right results. My only conclusion is that he's not in the right mood. So to do that, we have such spectacular investigations, and then nothing happens and there are no real results. We Members are also under pressure because of this. Many times someone asks me why we do nothing in Parliament to get this money back. I can only do something by taking certain measures here, and I think we should win here a coalition of Members that we want to do everything we can to investigate this bank hole and find the culprits. This should be a coalition in this House, not a coalition of parties, but a coalition of those honest, responsible ones who want this bank hole to be investigated and found guilty. I believe that it is not that simple, but I also think that it cannot be that complicated again or that we are not the most incompetent people. If they could have discovered this elsewhere, in some countries they also closed the presidents of governments and other different culprits, then I think they could have done so in Slovenia. That's why I say where there is will, there's a way. Mrs Popot of Desus quoted Adenauer as saying that looking back makes sense if it serves the future. In this case, I think it still serves the future. 5,000 million euros! Can we imagine how much pension that is? The country gives 1.3 billion a year to the state pension fund, so it could be able to fund a pension fund for several years. What's the point of finding out who did this? That is why I say that there must be a coalition of Members who want to. Unfortunately, we know each other well in Slovenia. Those who received credits in a way that was too easy or untransparent had certain links in banks, in politics or elsewhere. Therefore, we are running out of will or are not in the mood for real results. I regret that we are not able to make these coalitions in our National Assembly, which would strongly require the state to do everything possible for the competent institutions to do everything possible to investigate this and, of course, that the culprits must return the money if possible. We all know that if we loaned, for example, 500 euros or 1,000 euros to someone, and each of us gave 2 000 500 euros, it is clear that we want that money back, maybe without interest, but we want it back. And we say here that probably no one will get it back, and we've already thrown a rifle into the corn. We must demand that we do our utmost to get this money back to the state treasury – for better pensions, for better scholarships, for better health care, for smaller waiting types and could even list. Where there is will, there is a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u27	Thank you. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Get ready, mags. Marko Pogačnik and Dr Dušan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In view of the consequences caused by the bank hole or, as has been referred to here, banking crime, I think it is right to point out that it is still too weak to detect the greatest abuses and errors caused. Much has been said about who is experiencing all of this today in such a way or in a different way, or the consequences of these practices. There is no doubt in this respect that at the end of the day, we all have great damage, but I believe that the greatest harm is caused to the very younger populations or populations that are coming, because the instability that has been caused is such a nature that despite the ideal solutions that could possibly be, unfortunately, things cannot be fixed quickly. I do not want to talk about what has recently been stressed by the Bank of Slovenia, that there is still no lending of the economy, so that this process has stopped completely. Despite the fact that there is economic growth, there is still no lending. It has also been said that we are also not effective in European projects, as far as European funds are concerned. Thus, such systemic problems have arisen that do not move at any time from a dead point. In short, in my opinion, it is unnecessary to talk about the situation being better, it is being improved because the global situation is not at all like this, at least in my opinion not. An even bigger problem is that not only the justice system, not just the political system, but the whole social system has lost the confidence of the population or people somewhere. No one in this country has confidence anymore, and some apathy has emerged from this point of view, which is very bad. That is why at least the most pressing stories need to be brought about in some way on a day so that some epilogue can also come from such processes. I therefore considered that the proposed conclusions were appropriate. It can now be estimated that there is an opposition-positioning game here, and sometimes it is not appropriate, but in this case such conclusions have indeed been proposed that could bring added value to the entire political floor. But if that's not the case, then I'm not going to go into it, it's always a matter of the majority who decide what they decide or what they decide now. It is certainly right, however, to at least draw attention to the level that we are doing today. Although the Minister has highlighted some of the movements and some positive steps in this area, this is still too small and there is no doubt more to be done. Above all, from this point of view, I merely call on all the competent ones to do everything in our power and in their power in the area of the effectiveness of detection of banking crime, because this alone may contribute to some confidence of society in all our systems. I'm afraid we're not there today. Finally, I can also say that in some minor cases, in some cases, when it comes to purely bizarre things, some systems, including the judiciary, are working well, while in the case of the biggest abuses so far there is more or less a failure. If some others, I think of other countries in particular, have been more successful in this area, although systems cannot be compared in their entirety, we might still be able to take some positive cases into account and take them over, because we do not always need to detect, as someone has already said, warm water. But if we can't do anything else today, because here, in this building and this hall, we can't do anything but warn, then at least we expect these warnings to contribute to at least some degree to the fact that in any year or two there are only some judicial epilogues that will hopefully not only in the field of economic activity, but also to every citizen of Slovenia show at least some positive side in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In opening, I must reiterate one great sadness, given that the coalition has not once again supported the recommendations that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm sure these recommendations wouldn't hurt us to get to the bottom of banking crime. I really don't understand why the coalition didn't support these recommendations. I missed one point in this debate, namely that the rehabilitation of the banking system was always mentioned in 2013 and no one pointed out that this was already the second recovery at the expense of the taxpayer's money. The first rehabilitation of the banking system began in 1993, was successfully completed in 1997 and, as is known, for the first bank hole, no one has ever been responsible or responsible. In December 2013, the second resolution of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers amounted to more than EUR 5 billion. I'm sure this number isn't definitive. We know what is happening now with the merger of Factor Bank and Probank, we know that there is still a lot of money in play here regarding the Constitutional Court's decision to delete subordinate bonds. With this bank hole of more than €5 billion, it would probably be irresponsible to say that these 5 billion are only the result of criminal acts. However, we probably cannot sign that we would say that more than 5 billion holes are the result of the economic crisis alone. We need to get to the bottom of this. If irregularities or criminal acts have been committed, someone must be responsible. I am convinced that this 5 billionth hole could be significantly smaller if the Borut Pahor government reacted in time in 2010 and 2011. I am convinced that this bank hole could be at least one or even two billion euros. However, the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor himself admitted that the banking problem had been underestimated. At that time, we witnessed other matters, namely that policy at the time of the Pahor government directly prevented certain bankers from lending to certain companies further, even though all the conditions for extending credit were met. This has also created economic difficulties. As a result of this, a number of companies went bankrupt, this probably would not be necessary, some also lost their jobs, or some smaller supplier probably had to go bankrupt. The fact is that banking matters in Slovenia are not actually resolved or resolved very slowly. I would point out only the case of the bankruptcy of the Commercial Bank of Triglav in 2000, and this bankruptcy is not over today after sixteen years. But no one's dealing with it. I am sure that there is a very high risk that we will have to repair the banking system in Slovenia for the third time. The fact is that all Slovenian banks remain 100 % of the country's ownership to deal with privatisation, so that privatisation steps do not take place properly. In 1997, when the first resolution of the banking system was completed, the plan or projects were designed to privatise both NLB and NKBM. And if these banks were to privatise, I am sure that in 2013 taxpayers would not recapitalise these two banks at such an amount. Today, Iceland has been exposed many times. Iceland is certainly a fine example — how to get to the bottom, find those responsible, and let those responsible get some deserved punishment. But I would also like to point out a case in a neighbouring country, Hypo Austria. The matter ended relatively quickly. In fact, they found political responsibility there as well as the operational responsibility of the individuals who ran the bank or supervised the bank. Why am I still sure this isn't said to be the last one to be rehabilitated? Dear Secretary of State, DUTB has been set up to repay the taxpayer's money. Dutb is still without continuous leadership today, he still has the know-how. More than a year. DUTB does not yet have a revised annual report in June. If DUTB sells a claim like that – the case of selling the ACH Merrill Lynch claim, and then two months later we read a very short note so short that these claims were sold to Merrill Lynch for more than EUR 20 million in a relatively short time to a Russian financial company. I'm sure the way this government did it doesn't work out. A major role will have to be played here by the Minister of Justice, so that they will probably work more effectively to the bottom, so that someone in Slovenia will finally take responsibility for the bank hole.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the debate on the investigation of banking-related crime, I would like to point out that it is important to maintain a sufficiently broad focus in investigating or identifying liability. It is true that a number of people who today are considered a suspect in this or that crime would be declared a successful entrepreneur or financier if the financial and economic crisis did not occur. Human greed is just one of the constants that has been monitoring all civilizations since ancient times. As long as it lives within certain limits of regulations and acceptable standards, it can be a development movement, which is also built into the principle of the society in which we live, because it is largely based on entrepreneurship and free initiative. But what can quickly be turned into criminal acts with devastating consequences for society, its systems, its subsystems, and also cause woe to a wide range of citizens. Of course, it is possible to agree that the policy impact in the investigation of a bank hole is very important, and it is also true that policy has actually influenced developments in the emergence of a bank hole, particularly when we are talking about institutions that are in the domain or own state. Policy could, of course, also have an impact on the emergence of this bank hole by adopting legislation, by adopting systemic measures in the field of finance and economy, by employing supervisory boards of state banks or supervisory authorities in charge of monitoring the proper functioning of the banking system of the economy and so on. Therefore, Mr Ange Logar is wrong when he says that the bank hole was created in 2013, this claim is rather cynical. In 2013, this bank hole was established and it was created substantially earlier. Whether the scope of this bank hole was properly established in 2013 is, of course, another issue. The fact is that the most irresponsible work of the Slovenian governments on this topic from 2005 to 2009, when banking literally fell with growth and return on capital. It was then that systemic procyclicality was introduced in lieu of anticyclical policy. From this time on, political involvement in various business ventures is also well known, if we can say so, meetings in August 2005 in the office of the President of the Government with Mr Bavčar, Šrot, Gantar, Mrs Starina Kosem and so on when it came to buying companies Mercator, Pivovarna Laško, Istrabenz, Work and so on. These are all sorts of activities that helped to dig this bank hole. Now, on certain pages, it behaves as if it were not, and a bank hole is being built in 2013. Of course, there is an interesting feature with regard to the Slovenian Banking Hole also to Slovenia's response to the crisis, which appeared in 2007 and continued in 2008, 2009 and beyond. We are Slovenians in the years 2007 to 2011, this is said to be the key years of the crisis, allocated €94 per capita to bank resolution, and the Germans spent €491 per capita in the same period. This just shows how we left the banks completely irresponsiblely in the crucial years, even though we had an example in Germany, Austria and elsewhere. Since 2008 and 2013, the irresponsible behaviour of Slovenian governments has also shown itself to be inactive in the area of the resolution of certain economic activities. For example, from November 2008 to January 2009, the Germans earmarked 3.3 gross social product of fiscal incentives for infrastructure investments and other public investments. Similarly, in other countries in the old capitalist countries, they went into economic intervention in such a way as to trigger the economic growth that they were walking at the time. In this area, too, the country has not responded in a timely manner. At this time, we have very negative growth rates of construction activity, for example minus 3% in 2009 and over 10% and over 12% minus in 2010 and 2011. In addition to identifying the responsibility and finding the culprits, it can be found that there is also no timely action that would, of course, reduce this scope of this bank hole. With regard to the investigation of the bank hole in Slovenia, it would probably be necessary to assess the size of this hole first, since the figures calculated by various government advisors, Banka Slovenije and also foreign advisers in December 2014 seem unrealistic. They are probably more of a reflection of the hardships of the state of Slovenia, which occurred during this period in the liquidity crisis, or before the threat of bankruptcy, the collapse of the budget, and the threat of the introduction of a kind of coercive administration in the form of a so-called troika. In recent times, the business of DUTB shows that discounts may have been markedly exaggerated when transferring claims that had to be covered by Slovenian taxpayers. I believe that if we systematically went to bank hole research in Slovenia, we would come up with some similar conclusions as in Iceland, of course with a significantly smaller relative bank hole, such as Iceland. In Slovenia, for example, we would quickly find that rapid growth was the most important reason, for example. Evidence is easy to find in the annual reports of the largest two or three banks. The annual NLB reports, which are published publicly, show how the growth of the NLB balance sheet was the fastest in the period when the return on capital was also the highest. This period refers, as I said, to the period between 2005 and 2008. In the reports of the NLB Supervisory Board, it is to be seen for these years that the Supervisory Board has been very grateful for the rapid growth and high profitability. Citation from the 2007 report of the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board: "The Supervisory Board adopted the 2007 Annual Report and as a very successful evaluation of the work of the administration and the business results achieved, in particular in view of the continued dynamic growth in the volume of operations in all areas, profitability, cost-effectiveness and development of the NLB Group." In comparison, the NLB Supervisory Board focused on the quality of the business and the prudent management of risks by 2005. As it monitored profitability in terms of the risk of adjusted profitability over these years, the resulting capital return was significantly lower than the years thereafter and was between 10 and 12 %. These reports show how NLB systematically managed these risks by 2005 and, apparently, later started the race for as much profitability and growth as possible. Why such rapid growth was needed from 2005 to 2009, of course, is another issue. Since, despite the introduction of new international accounting standards, it has not insisted on an anti-cyclical risk system, the next question may be. Why did we not respond to the crisis in time between 2008 and 2011, despite the very clear and public warnings of some already in autumn 2008? Why did we have to find a bank hole in 2013 in such a strange way? Here are all the questions that need to be answered, both because of the comprehensive search for the causes or responsibility for the emergence of a bank hole and related crime, as well as in order to learn the fundamental lesson of how to act in the future. I believe that the essential part of this doctrine is that it does not repeat old mistakes and that it is no longer pro-cyclical, but is guided by counter-cyclical financial economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare to be Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, mag. It's an ant.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, a very nice greeting! First of all, let me begin by saying that I welcome this debate that is being held today. I also took a close look at the work-body magnetogram that was, and I believe that all of us here today want the country to do as much as possible and to be effective in solving banking crime. The investigation into the suspicions of the crime service is taking place too slowly in my opinion. The results are negligible. In view of the economic damage found estimated at around €815 million, the damage done [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u35	Dear colleague, please, I have to interrupt for a minute. Well, check it out so you don't run out of time. In our midst, I am pleased to welcome the delegation of the Polish-Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the Fair of the Republic of Poland, which is on a government visit to Slovenia, because during parliamentary contacts it has contributed significantly to the deepening and development of good relations and to strengthening the trust of respect and friendship between the two countries. In the National Assembly, the delegation has already held a meeting today with the joint delegation of the Friendship Group with Poland and the Committee on Foreign Policy; tomorrow it has meetings with the President of the National Assembly, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space and the Committee on the Economy. He also has a meeting tomorrow at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She's going to visit Ptuj on the last day. I wish the delegation fruitful conversations and a pleasant stay in our country. / applause/ Mag. Bojana Mursich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Also in my name a nice greeting to the delegation. I wish them a successful job in Slovenia and to learn as much of our beauty as possible. Let me get on with it. This economic damage, which has been found, amounts to EUR 815 million, is in fact very large, but is still too small, given that the damage to the completed crimes amounts to EUR 302 million. I am concerned about the long procedures, as the Minister has mentioned, and these procedures take four or more years, because many things can happen in these four years. Nor am I past the fact that we have already adopted a number of normative changes in this mandate, and operational measures are also planned to investigate a bank hole or bank crime. The Penal Code, which we have also adopted in this mandate, lays down higher penalties for corruption against the economy and also against official duties, but I believe that there is a substantial lack of detected criminal acts. What are the reasons? Perhaps they could be attributed to the internal influence of the banks. Bank officials, with the help of their superiors, carry out banking crime. Banks do not report such offences or expose themselves to the media or the public. Why? Because they do not really want negative consequences in public, they also do not want to damage the reputation of their committees. It is considered that the most abuse occurred in the area of credit transactions. While small advanced companies may pose a large credit risk, bank officials must be so well qualified to be able to exclude in time the borrower who cannot repay or will never repay the loan. Of course you'll ask me how to do that. Of course, it is possible — with a certain probability, credit losses can be anticipated, so it is necessary for the bank to cover and take into account the expected loss before the loan is granted — the standard risk costs are calculated. This requires professional training and also responsible staff. The credit rating should also be verified during the course of the loan in order to avoid possible defaults. It should also be pointed out that we also have high-risk loans, but it is not necessarily necessary that such loans remain unresolved. Of course, it's up to the borrowers. The frauds that occur can be prevented by timely suspicion, detection, action and the eventual elimination of consequences. It should be re-emphasized that the main decision makers in banks must be professionally qualified to do so. I don't think there's enough of them in the banks. The largest bank hole was created between 2006 and 2013, as also mentioned in the figures. Thus, for ten years after the suspicion of criminal service, there is a substantial lack of judicial epilogues. Citizens and citizens have paid this dearly, because we have invested quite a large sum of money, approximately €5 billion, in the rehabilitation of the banks, and the latest indications show that this is still not the end. Unfortunately, in this place, I have to touch what my colleague Pogačnik said is that all Slovenian banks are 100% owned by the country, but that is not the case. The new KBM was sold. We must be aware that we have invested €800 million in the Novo KBM by taxpayers and sold EUR 250 million for fighting. Who's injured? All citizens and citizens. The investigation of these crimes has been carried out by criminals from the National Investigation Office, who have recently begun to work closely with the Bank of Slovenia. Results are coming. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u37	Did I turn you off? No, no, no. Again, please. All I did was push mine. He likes to go to third.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u38	Comrade Gorenak, I don't think this one of yours was in place. I'm not talking nonsense. I'm sorry. These are the facts. I'm done with the results slowly coming. I've been interrupted a few times today, but nothing about it, I'll say the rest of what I have to say. I would like to see more solutions in this debate that will help both the Ministry, the Government and the State to prevent such behaviours from happening, and I hope that the frauds that are taking place will no longer take place. I'm afraid the main decision makers are protecting each other. They are still circulating through important functions in the banking system, which I also object to. What can we do? I believe that this can be prevented by early detection of fraud, by investigating and immediate action against the perpetrators. Of course, internal control, both internal and external audit and unannounced controls, must also be strengthened. Finally, I believe that the government and, as a result, the country must devote much more to banking crime than we have done so far, because with every mistake that has been made, it suffers the entire economy at the expense of our tax money. So, even better cooperation with the bank, assistance in business and security measures is needed to prevent as many of these abuses as possible. Of course, compensation responsibility must also be defined. However, success and promotion depend largely on the management and representation of banks. Returning to stability will be long and difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Jernej Vrtovec and Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the distinguished Minister who has returned to the hall to listen to this debate! In this country, we have already fixed the banking system twice, and colleagues who are experts in this area in our parliamentary group have said earlier that they will not be surprised if the third resolution of the banking system occurs. Today the situation is that we have a billion-dollar bank hole, 5 billion is deep. It was created by the granting of bad loans or bad loans and banks or those who signed these bad loans to businesses and individuals, and these companies and those individuals were then unable or even unwilling to repay these bad loans. In this way, every citizen has spent about EUR 2 000 500 to save the banks. What can we get out of this? The banks' boards acted unlawfully in their operations in the first place, acted irresponsiblely and acted unlawfully. In this case, however, the supervisory authorities, which should supervise the administrations of these banks and their work, are in fact monitoring such behaviours, have no longer done so in the way that they were entrusted. Here we can ask ourselves if these supervisors who were put there to identify such frauds, irregularities and even banking crime have actually found why they did not point to these irregularities. Secondly, if they did not know about it, it is clear that they did not do their control as they should. Today, with this bank hole, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are inevitable consequences that are seen in particular in the collapse of businesses, in the great social pressures, in unemployment and also in the lower standard of living. One day, it will be necessary to make order in this country in order to know that sanctions are followed by illegal behaviour. If no one is ever responsible for anything, then, respected citizens and citizens, especially if it is a billions-dollar bank hole, we cannot expect anything to improve in all other social areas. Of course, these credits, which we have already rightly pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party, have often been granted on the basis of political-friendly links, which we characterise as corruption and clientism. Ms Eva Joly, mentioned earlier, was the main investigator of the bank hole in Iceland and, among other things, said that the following was happening: "Investors get an unseemly offer, such as a good job in a bank they are investigating." I know that colleague Gorenak mentioned this quote as a proposal earlier, but it seems essential and crucial to me. Why? Because we did what Mrs Joly said we did in this country. At the time, the anti-corruption commission led by Minister Goran Klemenčič, who is today the Minister of Justice, was investigating or investigating the so-called bank hole, but did not come any further than the talks. Then, Mr Klemenčič stepped down from his post, as before as Secretary of State, we will see when he will decide to resign as Minister, but it was interesting that his deputy, Mr Praprotnik, was at that time also one of the main investigators of this bank hole on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, but then he received exactly what Mrs Joly was talking about for the prize – he received a job at the New Ljubljana Bank. So, sir, who was investigating banking crime and who should have been the first to point out that corruption had occurred, that unacceptable criminal matters had occurred, then he had received a job at Nova Ljubljanska Bank for the award, and he had investigated this bank before. That's first-class corruption. But the current President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has also failed to do anything about this matter. For the crimes of banking crime so far, respectable colleagues and colleagues, no one has ever been held responsible. Even more, you will remember that when the commission of inquiry in the previous mandate, which was also related to these issues, led by colleague Pogačnik, did not receive any documentation from Banka Slovenije. Banka Slovenije simply decided not to give the documentation, although we all knew that it was illegal conduct and that colleague Pogačnik should receive the documentation. Then the same thing happened to my colleague Logar, who is now an excellent leader of the investigative committee on the bank hole. Judge Desha Cener decided that the NLB would not provide documents. Then the higher court intervened and decided that the NLB must provide documentation to the investigative commission. It was only then that the investigative commission could obtain this documentation. But what happened in the middle, and no one knows. What was going on with this paperwork? Why was it delayed by procedures that the Commission of Inquiry could not carry out its work in a comprehensive and even more qualitative manner by then? The police, as we see today, have filed a cassation complaint, if we can say so, totalling around €800 million, but it appears to be stopping at this stage in the prosecution. The D.A. is apparently protecting individuals, protecting those who were working in the then bank administrations. That's more than obvious, and we don't have to move. Otherwise things would have been processed, but they didn't. Ladies and gentlemen, here's your responsibility. Things are not processed. They're not moving. Apparently, the police are working, while all those things that belong to your department seem to be falling apart somewhere. Why? I don't know. The only case that happened and came to court is the Dimic case, but there were all the bankers fired. I claim that the prosecution, under the leadership of Mr Zvonk Fischer, deliberately delays and does not want to process certain procedures relating to banking crime to the actions that have taken place. That means the prosecution protects these people. Quite different from Iceland, for example, as we have already seen, where people were condemned very quickly. 84 individuals participated in this group to be convicted by bankers and some others. I mentioned earlier an investigative committee run by a mag. Ange Logar. This is actually the only body at this point, or the only body in the country that actually works in this area and is doing everything in order to expose those responsible for the bank hole. If it wasn't for this commission, I'm sure you wouldn't have heard about the bank hole. No one would ever do that again. But now that they know that people know that some are dealing with it, other institutions need to give something away. But faster, Mr. Secretary-General. What's interesting about this investigative committee? I look at these interrogations more than once. It simply shows that witnesses who are interrogated there simply lose their memory, in part or in whole, do not know what kind of companies they have, which companies they have, do not know how many shares they have, where they have them. For example, Mr Boris Pesjak said that he did not have any shares when he was questioned. Then Mr Logar told him that this would not hold up, and he said he might have one or two. Then we came to the point that Mr. has thousands of these shares, but he doesn't remember that. He doesn't know that. That's why we have a problem in this country, and we're still blinding ourselves that this is going to work itself out. It won't, Mr. Secretary. I think it's high time you did something in this area. It's about time you did something. These gentlemen don't even know what they've signed up for. Don't make fun of people. Then why were they running these banks? Then anyone in this country could have treated them so irresponsibly to all of us. We do not know who signed or why they signed certain contracts. Even those who should monitor it have no idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Muršičeva has gone out. That call I made was a joke because today's performance, if I didn't know her by the voice, I'd think I was listening to the opposition MP. There's only one problem. Then why doesn't he support the conclusions? She's got everything she said. But it doesn't support conclusions, and it doesn't. We'll go over the conclusions one more time. A little while ago, I forgot who was talking about how the law was passed in 2006, under which you could get a loan and set up shares of the company you were about to buy. But someone forgot to say that the law was amended in 2008. Otherwise, it is necessary to know that this is possible in Europe. If you cross the border, you can get that credit. Thus, there is nothing special about this provision in our legislation, even though we deleted it in 2008, at least in my memory. But I don't know if anything's quite successful, because it's the same way that credit can be obtained from a foreign bank. Of course, one thing has to be acknowledged is that every non-refundable loan is not yet a criminal offence. That's what he's holding. However, it is not possible to agree that after so many years since the prosecution's organisation – today you are responsible, Mr Klemenčič, but I was responsible for Mr Virant's wishes only 11 months and nothing more, that we are clearly, not at our own request, but at the wishes of Mr Virant – have processed some more than 130 million. Police 850 and so many millions, prosecutors 130, which means that the prosecution is now a narrow throat, however we look at this case. And I don't praise the police, because I also imagined that there would be more, at least in 2012, I imagined there would be more, but I have to say that 800 million have been searched, and the prosecutors are still waiting with those hundred and several million of them, and there's nothing in the courts. Now, once again, a very clear story needs to be told. If the taxpayers recapitalised the banking system in 1994, these small recapitalisations were several hundred million, in fact, huge all along. If you round these numbers and turn them into today's euro, we probably won't be wrong if we say we've spent 10 billion on our banking system. What does that mean? That we have invested practically more than a one-year state budget of this country. Under the line, there's nothing on Pavšet. There are prisons on Pavseta. There's no one there yet. Not the one from 1994 or anyone from then on to today. If we compare this with the country to which we compared the case, then the situation is relatively clear. Our state-of-the-art law enforcement system, if you call it that, is not successful. Who is more or less successful within this is the second question, but there is no one on Paul’s side. That is why, in the Group of Members, together with the Non-Aligned Members or, as I have suggested, I would like to stress again for the sake of the public, the time allows me to do so, and the very kind, reasonable and human conclusions. For the first time, that we are familiar with the situation in this area, secondly that the government should draw up a plan in this area to investigate the prosecution, a plan to speed up developments in this area that would lead to the arrests, and thirdly to present this plan to Parliament, of course. These are such reasonable conclusions, so I don't understand those you didn't support. I don't understand those you didn't support. Otherwise, I return to the second point of the famous report of the former KPK or of the public letters responsible for the KPK. There you said that the establishment of a public and transparent investigation of the bank hole was essential. You said: "A hole in the Slovenian banking system will be the cost of taxpayers – in other words – the losses of banks have been socialised." You also said that, for this reason, the cost of rehabilitation of banks would be covered by the taxpayer's money, and then, according to the size and consequences of the bank hole, you proposed the establishment of a public investigation following Iceland's example. You've been a minister for two years now, and nothing yet. You've been a minister for two years. I was only 11 months old, and nothing. That's what you signed. Another time. "The investigation from the preceding indents shall have all the necessary data-collection instruments, regardless of the level of confidentiality and the conduct of interviews with persons, and shall also be subject to appropriate high criminal penalties for non-response to the requirements for the issuance of documentation, the inoperability of responsible persons and the transmission of data." Nice, but nothing. Nothing, nothing, nothing yet. "When the objectives of the public investigation are determined: to determine why this has happened, who are the key players, against whom it is possible to act" and so on. "The deadline within which the investigation must be completed shall be 12 months and the findings shall be public and the whole file shall be public upon completion of the investigation of information of a public nature." What can I say to end the question? When will that be? Given that he has scissors and linen today, since you are now a government minister for two years — because it will be two years — nothing. If you answer that this is a matter of the Systemic Investigations Act, I'll answer no. You wrote in such a way that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly completely rejected him, not the opposition. The adoption of the law is not dependent on the opposition, but on the coalition, and formally the law was not digestible because you brought something that could not be digested in the National Assembly, of course in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'll answer you very briefly. The Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Office of the Government of RD, drafted this law. This law is controversial, it's a law that introduces exactly what you're talking about Iceland and what's signed in that document you quoted. I have been monitoring what is happening in Iceland in 2013, we have also been monitoring the KPK for a long time, we have had to convince here that someone has looked there, which is not known today or is consciously closing their eyes before this. I've told you before why the Icelandic case isn't the best in criminal terms. And that's not my opinion, that's what was on the committee where you weren't, said Prosecutor Kozina and Prosecutor Furlan. Jolyeva also stated that there were two parallel investigations in Iceland, one was a public investigation, as we proposed in the Systemic Investigations Act, the other was a criminal investigation, where in a relatively limited circle of banks that were first bankrupted, then in fact they threw in everything they could and also achieved results. What do the Slovenian prosecutors think about this, you've heard about it on the committee, so I'm not going to say it again. Another good example, because you told us to give you good cases, is an example that is half good and half bad, such as the case of Ireland. Unfortunately, Ireland has not achieved great success in the area of prosecution, but it is precisely known or publicly disclosed which people in the supervisory councils and administrations have participated in causing an Irish bank hole, and they have done so through a public investigation of this type, as proposed in this law. Next example, Austria. In Austria, the bank hole was huge and some convictions for Hypo are already under way and some procedures are still under way. That's exactly where the procedures are going for a very long time. They're less than in Slovenia, but they're dragging. However, in the case of Hyp, a systematic investigation was also carried out on the basis of a government decision, since this is prescribed by their government law and has revealed in some part bad practices and highlighted certain people. This report, which can also be found today on the Internet, which was done before criminal proceedings were completed, highlighted that we could have done much more if we had a legal basis. It is necessary to be aware of what I said earlier to Mrs Ludmila Novak, who said that I had written down that she would be in one year. Here. I still believe today that if we adopt this law, and if we appoint such a commission, there could be a report within one year that would give some additional answers. However, it is not possible in any system in one year to process these people in a criminal and legal sense. They can't be. We should change the whole CAP. And we know that it doesn't go through the night, that it's not possible to go back and forth. I'll tell you one absurd thing. In 2008, at the end of the Janša government, the Penal Code was amended, where you partly decriminalized the abuse of confidence in the management of economic activity. I am sure – how many times do we usually fight here – that you did not do this to make it harder to prosecute banking crime, but it did. The Faculty of Law wrote a doctorate on this subject – I can send it to you – what problems the prosecution had because they had to stop procedures against brokers and middle management in banks, even though big things, because only the main leadership was criminalized. What I'm trying to say is, through criminal law, we can do some of these things. The government is actually trying to strengthen the detection and prosecution authorities, but these things cannot be done with today to tomorrow. I'm frustrated that these procedures have been going on for a long time. I think the police have been investigating for too long, and I think the prosecution has been deciding for too long, but we've only just started in the courts. But this may be my feeling, which is not necessarily justified in any way. These people are trying, but they're starting from scratch. This is as far as organs are concerned – and I hope we agree on this – as if the beginners of the Fusballers were sent to play in the first league. Not because they're beginners, but because they haven't met this kind of crime before. On the committee, Kozina, whom you like to quote, told you that when he got his first cases on the table, he had to go back to school and study revisions, banking regulations and so on. That's the problem. Even though we occasionally interfere with various things, I hope and welcome the debate when it is decent, because it is an additional pressure on these authorities to do even better and even faster. But not to speak, please, in general about this, which is why you are responsible, Minister. Because that's what you're saying, and I'm not gonna let that happen. Why? As it is said, we can inject more resources into this system; we, more people, we think reasonably about what institutional measures would still be important. Earlier, your colleague, Mr Logar, asked why I do not speak as a minister about the establishment of a specialised court, as also proposed by the Bank of Slovenia. On the stage, I was just talking about that, that we have specialized departments in four courts, that we have examined seriously, along with the prosecution, the Supreme Court, all the presidents of the District Courts, where these specialized departments exist and the ministries, whether this system can be improved or we will have to move forward with the establishment of a specialised court, which, of course, also entails a possible certain backlog at work. By the way, tomorrow or tomorrow we are the first time the working group is just abroad visiting such a court. So far, so short from my side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much. That we are clear on a few matters – you think that this law on systematic investigations will solve all things, I think we have every opportunity today to investigate these matters in the way you imagined, but in Parliament. That's why we have parliamentary investigative commissions because I'm a little afraid of such commissions in the government, because then it turns out they're commissions for discreditation, not something else. But we both need to know one thing, that such commissions will not accelerate anything in terms of police and judicial proceedings. The police-judicial proceedings will continue to run separately and if we do not accelerate them, then we have done nothing and then such an investigation does not actually mean anything. Of course, when we talk about Iceland, we are not only talking about the Joly Commission and its investigations, but we are talking about what the Icelandic justice system has sent to prisons. That's one thing. But there is one thing to know. Joly also made it very clear that if this goes on for more than six years, we won't make it through Strasbourg. This means that if the proceedings last more than six years, the European Court of Human Rights will have a problem. How many times has it been since 1994? It's been six years. I never said it was your fault, because I understand what a justice minister can do to the prosecution and to the judiciary, I never said it, you added it, or you want to be guilty of mine, and I didn't say it. That's one thing. But we need to know that we must all speed up these procedures together. But it's very interesting what you said in the end. That's almost history. There's a lot to history. I was sitting here somewhere when Mr Saiovic called me to resign because I said something critical through the Constitutional Court. When the Justice Minister says - and I agree with you, I agree - that such a debate is a kind of pressure in this direction, which means that we can press the court and the prosecution. At least with that kind of discussion. Like you said, she presented some kind of pressure, but I thought you thought it was positive, and I think it was positive. It is therefore necessary to discuss this, and some conclusions need to be adopted, which are unfortunately not available today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Get ready, mags. Branko Grimes and mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is certainly no left, there is no right, but this debate is a matter of normality, because we are talking about the origin itself or the identification of the culprits of the bank hole, it is in fact a goal which this national assembly must logically have, namely, that the culprits or those responsible for the bank hole are brought to justice or that they answer, because it is also a matter of character. Moreover, I would expect this House to have monthly such talks or to listen to the prosecution's reports monthly as to what it is doing, because it is going on, I stress, for it looks like it. Today, unfortunately, we must also talk about the fact that if we look at the names and surnames, those people who in the past participated in the formation of the bank hole, which was, forgive me, also during the 2004-2008 period when the right government was – because I say that it is not a left and right thing – under this government called responsible positions. In SDH, which essentially controls the bank – my colleagues in Desus are laughing at me now because they know I'm right, dear SMC – we're setting these people up. This is really nothing to be ashamed of. These people were once in positions of responsibility in banks, in the largest bank, and today they control this bank. Unsecured loans or under-secured loans were granted during this period. This is not a good example for our actions forward. Precedence – we have a bank hole and the culprits are nowhere. It's like having someone get shot, fell down, but we don't have a culprit, or they'd tell me no one's responsible for it. If you listen to these gentlemen on an investigative committee today, everyone loses their memory, they lose their memory, like it never happened. As if they had just flown into that hall, they fell out of the air and were never responsible at the Factor Bank, in Probank, and we reach the New Ljubljana Bank when they have to answer any more. But there's one interesting thing. The Governor of Banka Slovenije, at one of the Public Finance Supervisory Commissions, said that Banka Slovenije has been speedily suing the prosecution, and the prosecution has systematically rejected this. Now I'm wondering what our prosecution is doing. Not the police. I'm sorry, but criminals can't even get their credit cards under bank secrecy legislation. It's a precedent. They can't get to the credit card. We need to start changing legislation here. But if Banka Slovenije is suing, suspecting crimes and so on, everything is rejected in a row – Mr Minister, you are probably aware of this too – but there is something very wrong here. Mr. Kozina, the prosecutor, is so high. I don't sing anything. He also promised that these investigations would be completed by the end of 2014, then by the end of 2015. Keep singing it, I really won't. Some of the cases went down, too, with Bavčar and so on. About the seriousness of work and what rumors are sometimes, but the prosecution's role despite the "intoxication" of individual prosecutors does not perform. Bank secrecy, credit cards. The credit maps show exactly who gave the credit, who was the banker, and how this loan was given. There must be a day when those bankers who have succumbed to pressure, such as Kordesh, who called only on the phone and received the loan, will be called anywhere. But who was this banker? It's in the credit card. It's sad to say that the police, the criminals don't have access to this credit card, but they actually have the authority. The case of the New Ljubljana Bank is signed, and then these people can get to the credit card. This is the direction the government should be changing legislation. On the basis of these facts, it seems somehow that there is no real interest in this country, there is no real interest in examining the bank hole, why it was created and who are responsible before the time of justice. To say that we can't fix cases backwards is a pointless debate, no, this is a multibillion-euro debate. Unsecured loans are still in banks today, new ones are emerging, new problems are emerging. Because no one in the past has responded, or even more, because these same people have been reappointed to positions of responsibility. With regard to the Icelandic model, I am pleased that the President of the Government, Mr Cerar, has appointed Mr Klemenčič as Justice Minister. Only on 3 December 2013, when this letter came with these points, what policy must do to improve the situation. Among other things, the Icelandic model, or the resolution of the Icelandic bank hole, was mentioned. But Mr. Secretary, today you are, if I'm not mistaken, a 650-day minister. What legislative initiatives could indeed be proposed during this period in order to at least get closer to the Icelandic model, or we could say that we could be better than the Icelandics and bring something into this national assembly. If nothing else, because of the pear effect, we could do something. But nothing really changes in this area. I believe we can't say that in one year we'll do something, but in three years we'll change. But let's say legislative initiatives to organise a group of prosecutors who will be tasked solely with identifying banking crime, and such initiatives would be in place. I say, if you do not have support – perhaps you do not have it in any ruling parties or in the party that proposed you as minister – believe that at least in New Slovenia, the opposition party, we will go against such legislative initiatives. For in this case it is not, as I say, the left and the right, but it is a matter of normality. It would be normal for those who have cheated us for several billion euros to be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, prepare the mags. Andrej Shircelj and Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u50	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! About 8 billion, or some calculations, are increasing the estimates of the so-called bank hole. How nice that sounds, someone's been sneezing something, in their own words, and now it's a bank hole. You'll say these are bad loans. Already, but look, some very well-known policy not particularly large physical format, of course it is a very left-wing policy, he once bragged on television that sometimes he turned the phone and the bank immediately directed millions and millions of euros of credit to the one he wanted. If that is the case, then it will be very difficult for me to be convinced that this is a normal credit policy that characterises a market mechanism. But if that is not the case, then it is a very common place, if someone makes an account for all this political use of our dear leftists, who are made for money in Slovenia, which is a global paradox, they declare as something that people have to settle out of their pockets. The coalition has introduced here a new political concept in banking, for which I must congratulate you very much, because the originality in this case is something that is extremely good in terms of values, substance and ultimately also of actual goals and purposes, which are often hidden behind highly eloquent words in politics. This political principle was paradoxically brought and acted as a Slovenian national speciality in banking through your vote when you decided not to make any recommendations to the government. With this as a left coalition you have introduced into banking a new concept of three Buddha monkeys – nothing to hear, nothing to see, nothing to say. It's the only principle you have. Because, of course, your colleagues would be hurt if this investigation was actually ongoing, but you might even see where and how someone financed someone on the left in Slovenia. From the central media forward. See why exactly one of them always gets ads and why someone you just named in the world of RTV can even let someone else get ads that the first one doesn't like, that the left one doesn't like, say they'll arrange it, because he can't get an ad. And you won't believe it, send some text and it actually happens right away. Isn't it? These colleagues would have been harmed by you, and this would have affected the strength you stand on. So you're standing at the end of taxpayers' money, because the bank account is always paying off the poor Slovenian taxpayers, and many people even naively think that's why they're here. They are not, ladies and gentlemen, we do not even have a banking system that is worthy of this name if we compare it with the modern banking systems of some of the most successful European countries. We have a system set up politically, it was an integral part of the Udba mechanism – so, of course, without the knowledge and understanding of the Udba mechanism, we cannot really talk about it – and through it money was divided politically. More money, however, has been channeled politically abroad. It was that famous money that then ended up in companies there somewhere from Sahti forward in the time before Slovenian independence and in the form of bad loans and grants, again in the hands of one and the same, those that Mr. Stane Dolanc used to say to them so nicely "n'š kwovk". This is the whole story of Slovenia, its economy and its banking system. But of course, crows don't turn their eyes off, but we do know that we have judges and prosecutors who serve under the red star, not all of them, but those who have the most words at this moment, for sure. Then, of course, things don't move anywhere and everyone pretends that the state works to investigate justice, but no one hides their hair on their head, free after that old joke, which also flew on one left policy, namely, that it is important to sit on the train and that everyone is evenly swinging in the same direction, that then the observers have a footprint that the train travels on. The bank system investigation train has been standing for too long, and the bill for this work is being paid to taxpayers. What did the mother of the current prime minister say? That not every big piece of shit is a crime. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is also a crime, and you know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Our banking system can be said to have two characteristics. The first feature is, of course, that this banking system was predominantly state-owned. Until recently, all the largest banks were state-owned – recently sold to NKBM, and the largest bank still remains state-owned – and until recently, state banks covered between 75 and 80 % of the market, meaning, in other words, that if the state owned it, of course, it had to take care of these banks. The other feature is that these banks, if I've only been looking at the last 25 years, I won't look back because there's not enough time for that to be recapitalized all the time. The fact is, they've been recapitalized all the time. Here we can talk about more than €10 billion that the country has put in these banks with tax money. On the other hand, regarding the very operation of these banks, it has never examined or even put on a scale whether these banks operate well or not. Of course, there has been political recruitment since the beginning and, in fact, these banks have actually grown further. This is how we talk about the largest bank recovery in 1994, 1992 and then now in 2013. I agree here that not all credits were created in 2013. These loans have been accumulated, these loans have been from a long period and these loans have been given in different ways. Of course, it was never legal, even in terms of banking crime, especially those loans, whether they were given in accordance with the law or not. Of course, here is the biggest problem we have today. If we look at today, then, of course, the responsibility is sharpened, the responsibility of the public, the responsibility of the National Assembly, in general, the responsibility is sharpened, we have investigative commissions and so on. But something still doesn't really happen much in this area, given that we have also been involved in the last period of the Bank of Slovenia. I am concerned that when I listen to the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, they are talking about actually saying 17 or 15 ways or methods of how these loans were actually misused. That's what the vice governor is talking about, but the epilogue isn't. There's no epilogue. The Governor of Banka Slovenije tells us that Banka Slovenije has sent more than 100 complaints and then the epilogue does not actually exist. Of course, there can be different things here now why there is no such thing. Looking at the last 25 or 50 years is another feature of banking secrecy. Bank secrecy was until recently the institution that simply allowed bankers not to operate transparently. In no way did they operate transparently and this is now accumulated. What worries me, apart from the fact that there are no court epilogues, is whether this banking crisis is actually over. Various numbers are mentioned, but I will mention Banka Slovenije. There are 12 billion bad claims – 6 billion which are the result of business in Slovenia and 6 billion which are the result of business in other countries of the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Maribor Credit Bank, in short, in other countries. In other words, this actually means that this crisis is not over, but there is actually no responsibility. As a result, I was very disappointed by the coalition in this case, because it is so simple to conclude that an analysis of the state of play in this area, to draw up a plan of action and to inform the National Assembly, is indeed a minimum standard in parliamentary democracy, which is necessary in order to do something in the area of banking crime. However, the Coalition also rejects the fact that data can be found together to determine where the problems are and that this is reported to the National Assembly, which is the minimum standard that should be achieved for me, but unfortunately it is not here. Because it is not, many questions arise, why it is not and why it is actually in the interest of whom.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues and all those accompanying this meeting, if you are still following her! Of course, I would also like to look at the bank hole in the final case. Don't laugh at me, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, I haven't been in any government when I might have acted, and I've never had anything to do with anything that would have contributed to the formation of a bank hole. However, I had the opportunity in some procedures to see what amounts were granted as loans, what loans or what debts some companies or certain funds had in banks that were then persecuted as creditors. It's normal for me to want things to get to the bottom. Any normal person who serves his daily bread and who will never see such amounts in his life in surgery wants these matters to come to a bottom. But what is proposed in these recommendations will not speed up the proceedings. He won't. Why? Because it is imposed in these recommendations that the Government do something that the prosecution and the courts are already doing, and the Government cannot impose on them to do it because it does not have those powers. Some measures have been taken by the Government, and I have already listed in the position of the Group of Members the laws it has adopted and some will be adopted. The Minister has announced a change to the Penal Code and we will support the Systemic Investigations Act. We're gonna need some changes, a supplement, but we're gonna have to make a difference, but don't worry, we're gonna support it. When you so praise this Icelandic model, you will have the opportunity to support this law and adopt it because it is quite similar to this model or we will see how the exact solution will be adopted. So we have specialized prosecutors. This was said to be a specialised court. Again, the question is how much of the establishment of one such court would be justified, whether it would actually speed up the proceedings and what it is. I don't know. This is where the profession has to answer that question. The important thing is that specialized departments in the courts work fine. Worried or something to think about are situations in which prosecutors, for example, work. What's going to happen? The whole of Slovenia deals with one case, say the tycoons, we all think about it, then the prosecutor or the judge gets the case on the table and has to decide on millions or I don't know what amounts, and his salary is negligiblely small compared to that. It may be necessary to consider better motivation for prosecutors to work or to increase their number. When I listen to these discussions today, you're all talking about banking crime. I know you know that there is no criminal offence in the Penal Code, but if we want to prosecute crimes, first the police and then the prosecutor meet with a question that is not easy, that the crime that we all believe to be a crime is a crime, is brought under the law that is in the Penal Code. That it was, for example, an abuse of position or trust in economic activity. I don't know, probably that. It seems to us quite often that this is self-evident, but in this case, the Prosecutor is ahead of the task of proving that all the signs of the crime have been fulfilled, which is not a very simple task, and of providing evidence that this is the case. We have such evidentiary standards as we have in the Penal Code and in the Criminal Procedure Act, and that is what needs to be done. We won't have to change anything again, because we won't, because the validity of the laws is outlawed. The question is, were all these crimes committed even a crime? It can be that very many of these acts do not fall under any of the crimes. They could have been legal when they were made. I remember talking about the takeovers with colleagues from abroad who asked me if we adopted such a law in Slovenia, that it is that the director takes over the shares of his company and takes over the company, okay with us. Yeah. I just want to say that it's not that simple. If you once decided on a particular procedure, it is a very demanding procedure to prove in certain matters that there is evidence that one crime has actually been committed. That's all. Prosecutors have a difficult job in this case, because these things are not so simple and so easy to prove, even though they may seem self-sufficient and simple, but when you face a concrete procedure, it is not always so. It's not like that many times. We listened to the Justice Committee of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, which I specifically asked her whether she thought criminal legislation should be amended and said no. She believes that criminal legislation is sufficient to prosecute crimes, and I will also use the term "bank crimes". But this is the opinion of someone who is a member of the Bank of Slovenia. Whether there are some offences under the applicable Penal Code at the end of the day is decided by the court and there are only rules – whether there is sufficient evidence or not. It's over. It also happens that judgments fall for procedural reasons, that is true, but it is extremely difficult things that might not be so generalized. Therefore, it is necessary to wait for judicial practice, even in these cases arising from the past, because no change in criminal law will help us in doing so. I do not support, not praise or anything to Prosecutor Kozino, but he was on the Justice Committee, and he said that we also thought that no one would be convicted of the tycoons, and there were some cases of convictions of so-called tycoons, so also in the case of these crimes involving banks and bank holes, there would be a judicial epilogue, a judicial verdict. The government itself cannot order the court or the prosecution to work in specific cases. I know you're not even suggesting this in these conclusions. Even if these recommendations were accepted, I don't think we'd make any significant changes. However, we will see later in September when we consider amendments to the Penal Code and the Systemic Investigations Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u55	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Allow me to begin by saying that I am genuinely sad that there is no longer a representative of the Ministry of Justice in the Chamber. There is no one from the judiciary, but we are talking about economic crime in the banking sector. It's sad and it's also meaningful. Allow me to begin by telling you about the presentation of the proposaler – then on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party on my own – said the Minister; "... with 90% of what the proposer has said can also be agreed with me. As a country, we are not effective at detecting and prosecuting this crime." Those were his words. What did the Minister of the Interior say? "I also agree with what Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, honourable Member, said." Everyone agrees, but when it comes to voting, they do not accept the recommendations. Now tell me, who's making a fool out of who? The result we have in the area we are talking about today is zero. Pure zero is right now. You are saying that the recommendations are not necessary, that nothing is really necessary, but that we should let the competent work. Of course, the competent ones should work, but also in Iceland, which is often given as an example today, this work was difficult, it was difficult, the judges faced crime that was significantly higher than their salaries but had results. We don't have them. I do not believe that the recommendation to look at why they are not there would not help to take any measures that might speed up these matters. I may be a little flattened, but I still believe that in this short period of time, there has been an investigative commission led by a fellow mag. Anže Logar, have conducted more hearings than during the same period those responsible in the country as the authority. I think that's more than meaningful. The minister also said that he also had personal frustration about the duration of the proceedings. Yeah, well, then it's time to move. Of course, there is one fundamental problem in our country, about which colleague Eva Irgl has already talked about, that those who are supposed to investigate are then transferred to these banks that have been investigated. She mentioned the former co-worker, the current Minister of Justice, they were close co-workers, but it is also worth reminding the former KPK president, Mr Drag Kos, who earns one salary in two hours. In a bank that is part of a system for which every citizen in the Republic of Slovenia has already had to deduct EUR 2 000 500 and we do not have one in court. And then I heard on the board from the prosecutor of Kozina, who said we shouldn't be so pessimistic, because it's going. But this same prosecutor said that if we come up with some kind of process to the end, it will take 10 to 15 years, and then you can count on the possibility that the matter will probably fall in the first degree or so, and that will be another 5 years. Is that why you're optimistic? We have no reason to be optimistic. If all of us in this National Assembly were to come to the end of this matter, we would at least support the recommendations and show that the National Assembly is united in wanting to end this matter and bring those responsible not only to the courts but also, as has already been said, to the Council elsewhere. There are only two more data that will tell you more than that people are still walking on our streets, and that is why they have not yet taken any responsibility. One thing is the Factor Bank, which is connected to the DUTB. Two months before the forced settlement, Merkur granted EUR 8 million of loans to Merkur. The EUR 8 million, while the credit rating opinion they received at the time, had already highlighted Mercury's alarming situation. And the judge decided that the bankers weren't guilty because they believed that Mercury would make things right. Is that supposed to give you hope? Similarly, the then president of the NLB administration said that 98 % of the loans had been granted outside the tariffs. If this is normal and then if such a process falls before the court, then, Your Honor, today you only give one call to citizens and citizens to all go to NLB for the same credit, under the same interest rates and under the same conditions, and we demand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u57	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Marjan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear and venerable all present! I will also begin with the same as I have seen before that it is true that, as a country, we are not successful and effective enough to detect and prosecute crimes related to this banking crime. In Slovenia, we deal too often only with the criminal responsibility of individuals, but we forget their compensation and professional responsibility. We have not discovered enough and have managed to bring proceedings to a judgment. I want things to come to the bottom as soon as possible to expose the crimes that have led to the 5 billion-dollar bank hole, and, of course, as I have already said, to bring the perpetrators to justice and to reach the verdicts. It is also unacceptable that there are four years of criminal proceedings and more than four years of filing an appeal, and that this liability is forgotten. I think it's hard to collect the evidence itself and then even with them to succeed at the examination itself. I would also like to say that the Government and the Justice Ministry have taken certain steps and measures to accelerate these procedures in order to make detection more effective and so on. And I'm going to give you a few examples of the adoption of these laws and the content. First, the Act amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which lays down higher penalties for corruption offences against the economy and against official duty. The delinquency of crimes, which is the next problem, has also increased. It is a fourfold increase in the age of age for criminal and civil offences or cases. The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which has been in force since 27. 1. 2016, for persons with a legal relationship with the DUTB, set up this notifying duty, which is a novelty. It is a public obligation to detect offences, as all those employed in banks or other institutions will have to disclose all the offences that will be notified or otherwise known, which are related to the bank receiving the measures. This builds on Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides that public authorities and organisations with public powers are obliged to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility if committed. So this was already in force, but it is now specifically prescribed. I'd like to mention the reinforcements. I think it is very important that 30 new state prosecutors and prosecutors have been employed in the prosecution, and that additional financial resources have also been allocated to the prosecutions' work. All this and other measures will, I am sure, contribute to the effective detection of banking crime. I would also touch myself and say something about the case of Iceland, which has been mentioned so many times today. I believe that Slovenia is not comparable to solving banking crime in Iceland. First of all, we have to say that the Slovenians are already divided as a nation and we are not ready to step together, we are not ready to work in a uniform way to explore things, as the Icelanders did immediately. The President of the Government was asked to take responsibility for it, and 84 investigators were also hired, who were very successful and soon put away a number of bank officials responsible for this bank hole. In addition, I must say that the difference is that the Icelandic banks were private banks and we had financial holes in state banks. So we can learn a lot from the Icelandics, and if we were willing to work together together in the future, we could do much differently. Ms Anja Žibert said before me that we would have done enough to support the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding procedures for detecting and investigating suspected crimes relating to banking crime, which the SDS had submitted to the National Assembly. I believe that only these measures would not lead to a solution, but that, as I have said, it is necessary, on the basis of these legislative changes and of course, the Government's actions, to ensure that we are more successful in investigating crimes and that we will prevent similar crimes in the future, which is also very important. It is not insignificant that it would also suggest that we work to get as much money back as possible. Mrs Novak said today how much pensions could be paid and so on. Of course, that's what I want, and I expect us to be at least a little successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u59	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u60	I have said that these recommendations would certainly give an important message to citizens and citizens that we are serious. This is exactly the answer to what you've been saying all along, Mrs Porotat, to show that we're capable of cooperating. But unfortunately, it's the coalition that makes this impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u61	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u62	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In view of the fact that the applicant has clearly identified the requirement for a call for an extraordinary meeting on the procedures for detecting and investigating suspected offences related to banking crime, if I can also summarise it, where it is evident that the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Bank of Maribor and Abank in the amount of good 3 billion, the good 1.6 billion bad claims has been transferred to a bad bank and the removal of subordinated bonds has been 441 million, this brings us almost to EUR 5.2 billion. However, the reason for the bank hole is not clearly defined, since the applicant’s material indicates that this hole was caused by the granting of so-called bad loans or loans without adequate collateral. That only holds in one piece. I'm sure we need to split this bank hole into several parts. One is that period until 2004. After that, the period of rapid debt without adequate insurance 2004-2008, when banks actually recruited companies to take credit and, of course, did not require any specific insurance. At that time, the annual debt was even 33%, which is completely abnormal. Of course, then the sobering up, the economic financial crisis and the rehabilitation of banks. But it is precisely this rehabilitation of the banks that, apart from lending, is extremely controversial. One is to grant a bad loan and the other is to make a poor, inaccurate calculation of the necessary funds for the recapitalisation of banks. If all of these procedures are to be stopped, all of them must be regarded as possible suspicions of crimes. If I add to this only this information that, during this period, the management of state property through a bad bank, through the Slovenian State holding company, the Blue Insurance Company and when it costs as much as EUR 34.4 million, then all the amounts I mention, 5.2 billion, must also be added to the high costs that we have in managing this property and exceed all reasonable limits. It is therefore necessary to take a look not only at the granting of bad loans, where I think there is no difference between Slovenia and Iceland, we must do so as soon as possible, because we have not done so far, and some things within the banking system, namely, bad claims, are happening to us in a new way, without reservation that anyone can say, but here you are doing wrong. This was also the reason for me to file my own application as a suspect of a crime, both to the police and to the Anti-Corruption Commission, and also to the Court of Auditors, because this is also the moment when proceedings that point to the suspicion of a crime are being made, the bad claims of the New Ljubljana Bank are being sold with 80% discount, and it is also suspected that everything is being pre-arranged and that those who will sell it will make a very great deal of money. So since we didn't stop things at the beginning, we're getting new things going. It is therefore very important that Members of Parliament, because we are the only ones who can influence this whole process, play an active role for Members, whether we come from the left or from the right, because the financial hole is roughly the same as the left and the right. In fact, we are just Parliament and Members who can cut these things off. Finally, we have a responsibility for this. If we add to this the sale of 15 companies and the procedure which is, of course, untransparent, where we find that even the company is sold for less than the advisory contracts paid for this sale, then of course this is also one of the procedures that shows that these procedures need to be reacted very clearly and effectively. But if I stay on these stress tests because not only bad loans, but also tests of how much money has to be invested in our recapitalisation banks have proven to be made on completely wrong and wrong assumptions. The drop in gross domestic product was expected to be 3.1% in 2013, in fact falling only 1%. Then, for 2014, GDP was projected to fall by 3.8%, in fact, gross domestic product growth by 3%. However, in 2015 gross domestic product was projected to fall by 2.9%; in fact, the growth was 2.7%. These are huge differences. These are huge differences and today we have problems with debt and high interest. This is again one of the categories that happened to us and we haven't touched it yet. However, it would not be easier to admit that these data were wrong, because in practice they are also proven to be wrong, to return this money to the state budget, to reduce the payment of interest, to reduce their obligations then from the state budget and, of course, to get the country into some normal running situation. But no, it continues to persist in this, and one of the tasks of our commission to investigate the bank hole is to try, of course, to choose this data as accurately as possible and also to present it to the National Assembly, and I believe that this will also be one of the actual concrete opportunities for the National Assembly to decide how to act in the event of the resolution of the banking system. If we add further information to this, we will also pay enormous amounts for this missing information that I have been citing. The Institute, which assessed this, namely Oliver Wyman, received EUR 1.2 million from Bank of Slovenia for the assessment of the bank hole, which is completely missing, plus EUR 10 million from New Ljubljana Bank, New Credit Bank Maribor and Banka. 22 million for making the score completely wrong. These are certainly things that require the revision of all these procedures, and on the basis of this revision all these issues that we are discussing today must be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u63	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare for Mr Franz Breznik and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. First of all, I must say that this debate today, as I have already said many times in this national assembly, is, according to my personal assessment and also at the assessment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, an absolutely crucial topic at this time. Not just at this point, for a while. Key because this was the historic biggest theft that could have happened, the theft of money to the Slovenian people. This is the biggest mess of all pigs that could have happened to any nation that operates independently as a country. Let's see pensioners, those with the lowest pensions, pensioners there with 400, 500 euros of pension, then those on the minimum wage, and then those on the poverty line, not to mention the unemployed, who are still over 100,000. If these groups of people I'm talking about now stole one box of matches or one sandwich from the store, they'd be closed for a month immediately, at that moment, I don't know how many days the judgment would be legally binding. But when it comes to a huge, criminal society that manipulates Slovenian politics in one way or another, which is connected between us from time to time, it is because of this that nothing happens to them because the sacred cows are in this society. In the vast majority, this criminal society is linked mainly to the left-wing group, a political group, including the SD, a very important party, including Desus, one of which is the most democratic party of the SMC. If you look at the people who are in key positions and the SMC client who is currently recruiting, look at the people he employs in key positions. Then it's clear to everyone why nothing happens in this society. This left-wing authority employs the highest positions of the prosecution, to the highest positions where key things are taken. Then it makes sense that if everyone is connected, nothing can happen and nothing will happen. For a little man in this society, nothing. It is the Slovenian Democratic Party who wants and who, if once those people who live on the brink of survival – I am talking about Styria, Pomurje, Prekmurje, I am talking about Koroška and so on, even all those who are not connected to the centres – that will come together, go to the elections and vote for the Slovenian Democratic Party, that will be cut. The entire left-wing elite, all the privileged Slovenian society, are doing everything they can to prevent us from coming into power because they're afraid to cut it off. This is a mess of all the centuries-old pigs that could have happened 25 years old, young people, our precious homelands of Slovenia at the beginning of their lives. What I've been saying, I'm going to back it up with arguments. First, at the 13th urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government on 25th 2. In 2015, the State's mag prosecutor spoke about the investigation of the bank hole and related banking crime. Joza Kozina. He said: "How many illegal assets will we be able to get, I can tell you from the examples you also know – Shrot, 150 million, practically nothing, Kordez, 130 million, virtually nothing, Holding Zvon 1, Holding Zvon 2, 120 million, virtually nothing and so on. On the 25th. 2. 2016 Director of the National Investigation Office Darko Majhenič said: "Criminal police recorded or detected 228 sums of so-called bank crimes by the end of January 2016. The total estimated damage to detected crimes amounts to EUR 779 million." It's almost a billion. "So far we have completed 138 suspicions of crimes, for 96 we have filed criminal charges for a well-founded service of various crimes, and for 42 cases we have filed reports because we have not found the basis for a criminal complaint." Mr Darko Majhenič says something very important, as his next statement is even more worrying. "Just case law will in fact show whether bad banking practice is actually also a crime." If someone in key positions thinks so, can you imagine what he said? [[…]] Only judicial practice will in fact show whether bad banking practices are in fact also criminal offences. They apologize in advance that they do nothing, that everything is like that, that they can steal ahead, that everyone knows in advance that they will not be responsible for anything, which is logical, if these key people we have set up think that way. He continues: "It is not necessary, therefore, that those who have dug a bank hole will ever be condemned for their conduct at all." This is the Director of the National Investigation Office Darko Majhenič speaking. My dears, you must be sick. Then imagine that we will solve this problem. What did Klemenčič say? Klemenčič says: "As a country, we are not effective in detecting and prosecuting banking crime." Today he speaks calmly about how almost everything is okay. This was spoken on 23 June 2016 on the Committee. Then here Minister of the Interior Vesna Györkös Žnidar estimated that we were too busy dealing with the situation behind us. So he apologizes in advance, God forbid that we deal with what this combined left-wing story has stolen. It is also important to include elements of convincing these phenomena into the future. It argued that the focus should be on the enforcement of supervisory mechanisms and better quality selection procedures for supervisory authorities. So she said in advance that they wouldn't do anything. That we should not deal with those 10 billion that have been stolen from our pockets, from ours, that is from those people I spoke of before, those who have 500 euros in pensions and so on. Then Mr. Furlan, who said it was hard to prove direct slander. So, my dears, now you know what I've been talking about. Now you're all clear. With these statements, I am very clear that these key people in these positions are only saying how they will not be able to do anything. That's what they say, if you understand correctly and if you're listening. Read it, let's do an analysis and you'll see I'm right. It's not a problem with the opposition, it's not a problem for those who really want to cut this shit off, but it's a problem for those people who are listed here through their statements to hold a "stango". Who's holding the slang? Coalition: SD, Desus, SMC. Mrs Porotat of Desus said, inter alia, when she was reading that position of the Group of Members and then in her discussion, that they had rejected those recommendations on the Committee. Among other things, she said that appropriate measures had been taken to really tackle these issues properly in our society. Now, Mrs Porotat, I ask what of what you said was adopted during your government's time, had a positive effect that these problems would have resolved that one of those bandits who did this would have been in prison and that the entire property would have been returned so that the smallest pensioners could actually have 50, 60 or 100 euros more. What was made of this, tell me. What are the effects of what you said? But you don't write something to say to yourself if there's no effect if none of it's closed yet. Not one and not a single cent has returned. Smokey's was forgiven. Those who dealt with Simone Dimic’s case, who gave some credit, were forgiven, no one was to blame. Don't make fun of me. You can't make a fool out of this poor Slovenian nation anymore. How much longer are you going to do this? And so on and so on, because I don't have much time left, I'm going to end it. As long as the coalition with its team holds "stango" to such people who have made statements that nothing can be done in this society, in these bodies responsible for this story, the situation in this society will be that in this country. I suggest to the Slovenian people that at the next elections, we give our voice to the right centre and cut this left-wing link once. So that people can figure out the difference between those who are holding the "stang" of this mafia group and those of us who want to cut this stall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u65	A replica or a procedural one? Replica, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Just one brief replica to Mr. Pojbich. First, I would like to tell you that I have read the position of the Group of Members, and secondly that I am not responsible for what I think. I told you, and you, too, discuss the problems and your view of the matter and do not criticize Desus, SMC, the third coalition. This is not appropriate for this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u67	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Get ready for the government and then the mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would still return to the draft agenda entitled Proposal for a Recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding procedures for detecting and investigating suspected crimes related to so-called banking crime. Kolga Pojbič comes from a similar environment to me, this is from central Slovenian mountains. I would quote here today Adenauer and Mrs Porotatova, who said that there must be a view of the past when we see that we can do something good for the future. In Lenart and in Slovenian Gorica we are most likely to have the most experience with one of the first largest banking affairs. Remember the Satex case, I think it raises 913 bank loans. Let's remember the court epilogue. Let us recall all the visible bankers of the then Maribor bank whose procedures have been completed, all analysts, all the presidents of the credit committees. Let's remember that the then leader, we can say, a representative of the middle management who ran the bank in Lenart at the time, ended up in an unusual car accident. Remember, the matter is out of date, that people who get credit laugh and drive luxury cars. All other bankers continued their careers outside the bank, in NLB or later in Montenegrobank and so on. It was a practice. Why did this happen? Because no one has ever been sanctioned, because this crime is worth it, this crime is paid for in Slovenia because no one ever answers. I will point out a few more chronological matters to see that banking crime is like other crime – the banking most – because it indirectly affects all of us through higher taxes, through the worse lives of many citizens and citizens – like the film Marathons run the honorary circle of Mr. Shijan in 1982, where the same baptisms are always sold, the mud is cleansed and polished. Now you will see these main players, these Serbian players from this film somehow follow in this banking circle. Let us recall the second Janša government, which, immediately after the term of office, somehow made a history that something was wrong with the banking system. 2010 and 2011 we already had information that both the biggest Slovenian system banks no longer finance those serious projects for which the relevant insurance representatives have all the standards and that something is happening. Then, after the performance of the second Janša government as Members, we sat here in a closed session with Governor Kranjec, who explained to us before the Slovenian public that there was nothing wrong with Slovenian banks and that everything was fine. I hope I don't have to explain everything that followed to you, because I'm going to be too long, and I've got some time. Let us remember where Mr Kranjec today, in which procedures this man, who lied to the Slovenian public, lied to the Slovenian Government and lied to the members of the National Assembly. Where is this man today, I want to know. What does he do, what procedures he's in? What procedures are the people who were at the Bank of Slovenia at the time and who were accompanying the Slovenian banks? Today, the same people are speaking and philosophizing about what was wrong, and for many years already most of them have been employed by the main regulator of the Slovenian banking system. Where are NLB and New KBM analysts today, Banks, Celje Banks and so on, who were sitting on these banks and providing their intellectual services for a well-paid service? Where are the internal investigators, where are the then internal auditors of the banks that have to carry out this task? What were they doing, where are they today? What is the difference between the crisis management of these banks after the opening of the bank hole and the Hypo Bank in Ljubljana, if we remember? Immediately, remember that they came even with foreign security services, which was questionable for some, immediately confiscated their notebooks, immediately made a forensic investigation and immediately removed a whole range of people. Even those suspected were immediately suspended. If we translate from legal to domestic language, they have been removed at least for a certain period of time from the workplace in order to identify and cross this chain. In the Slovenian banking system, except for rare individuals from small and medium management, everyone else switched jobs and went to better paid and more responsible jobs or stayed in banks. This is the sequel to the film Marathons running an honorary grave, which today can be called the Slovenian bank hole and continues. Dear colleagues, as soon as the Slovenian government of Janez Janša told us what the essential measures would be when we even said that we would establish SDH, when we said that we would rehabilitate Slovenia's banking system, when the two referendums, which the Constitutional Court rejected, had already been a panic in the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called Slovenian capitalism, which had stolen Slovenian banks all the time. What happened? I have an interesting document in front of me, like, 20. NLB Shareholders' Assembly of 14 December 2012. One of the proposals for a decision is: "The Assembly shall give an untrust to the members of the Management Board of the NLB d.d. David Benedek and Mark Jazbec due to the poor business performance of the bank and the deteriorating projections of the bank's operations." What did the then government, or Minister Šuštersič, do? Forensics review. Proposal for a Decision: "In NLB subsidiaries d.d. LHB International Tradesband AG and NLB InterFinanz AG should immediately carry out a forensic audit carried out by forensic auditors in particular in accordance with MMS 4400 (international standards of related services) by the end of 2013 at the latest." They shall then indicate how this audit should proceed and so on. Then what happened when John Janša’s second government seriously set out to cut the bank hole and find the culprits? What exactly did this minister who isn't here right now, Mr. Klemenčič? Remember what he did as chairman of the KPK Commission when Comrade Gorenak was Minister in 2013, right after the first days of the new year 2013, when we thought we were going into serious reforms? He wrote their so-called state of affairs report to the head of political parties, everything else is history. So everything that fell then broke serious work and a hard hand to find a bank hole. This man is sitting here today, moralizing and being one of the main players of the movie, the Marathonians are running an honorary circle. I don't know what name I'd give him, but one of the main players. Never guilty of anything, with an ever-increasing function. Now I'm talking about politics. Where is Marko Jazbec, mentioned specifically by this congregation and speaking about him? Colleagues, you told him that he was even looking at the NLB today. Marko Jazbec, with new affairs. David Benedict, from the so-called Earthling Circle, went in the middle of a little bit to the state insurance company and, according to some information, NLB is probably already coming back. It's you. What do you mean? I'm telling you now about the Marathonians running an honorary circle in the banking system. All these people are back. Not to explain who intervened in the NLB. Mr Kos with the price of €213 per hour, with five retired criminals, of which there are two former members of the SDV, mostly from high school, and they are now selecting and looking at these credit maps. Following these forensic investigations, which should have been carried out by the top institutions and have been carried out, five retired criminals are arriving without any excellent knowledge in this area. A colleague from the Minister of Justice, Mr Praprotnik, a journalist, not a diplomat economist, not a lawyer, not a specialist in finance, not a specialist in economic law, banking and so on, is sitting in NLB today. So someone who should be investigated through KPK is sitting in the NLB. This is the story of this movie, the Marathonians are running an honorary circle, currently with Slovenian directors. Dear colleagues, when this continues, you are the directors, you raise your hands, you have set up the government and all those who sit in the government as ministers, not only is it not possible that this is not their area, but they are members of the government, which indirectly also affects the President of the Government. You're all guilty of nothing happening right now. Because it should happen not only in justice, where nothing happens, but also in these institutions. A whole number of people, hundreds of people should at least be suspended, so they should be removed from their jobs and should not be doing this system at this point, because this matter will recur. In a few years, we will stand and wonder again who was right, who was defending something, and who was not defending it. These are not preventive measures that could be taken. That's what I'm talking about today. Finally – because I have a limited time, I would explain a lot – I can only say as in the movie the Marathons run an honorable circle: "When he knew you, hell will not be hard for him". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u69	The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefic, has the floor. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u70	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to point out, in the introduction, what has been pointed out several times today, whether there is a will on the Government's part to investigate these suspicions of crime that we are talking about today. I must make it very clear that this will is, and every day we prove it with concrete activities and actions, as far as the Government is concerned with the Ministry of the Interior or the Slovenian Police. We have very clearly defined priorities already set in the 2012 strategy. This strategy shall apply until 2016. It is also true that the Ministers of the Interior, including in the final term, place in particular the tasks of prosecuting the suspicion of crimes in this area as an absolute priority in the annual guidelines. This is also the first priority identified in the Ministry's work programme. Therefore, it would be difficult to say that we do not know what we are doing or that we do not have a strategy, a programme, a priority and a clear picture. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that in 2013, when we talk about the criminal police and the National Investigation Office, we had a very poor situation in all respects – human resources, training, education, equipment and so on. That is why the current government, according to the previous government, has granted additional employment and has granted additional resources to improve the situation. That this has also been reflected in the work itself, also shows the number of activities carried out, the number of complaints that have grown and, of course, other operational activities. So, of course, appropriate investment in this system also yields results. Of course, we continued with this in 2015 and 2016, which is why the results are now visible. I have to say that we're talking about investigating the suspicion of difficult crimes. It's usually very extensive investigations. We must not forget that it is also here that detection and, of course, prosecution authorities must also receive data from abroad, where we had to make every effort to obtain those key data so that the investigations could take place. It is also a matter of professional difficulty and, last but not least, as the Member mentioned, it is ultimately necessary to prove that there are all the signs of a crime and, of course, this is not always so simple. Finally, I must say that since 2012 – these are data from a few days ago – we have practically detected 236 crimes. The damage assessment is just over €815 million. So far, we have completed 158 cases, of which 105 are closed with criminal charges. In doing so, I must point out that, of course, all these activities of the criminal police of the National Investigation Office are directed and also gives mandatory instructions to the State Prosecutor's Office, so I cannot say that this is just a piece of paper that sometimes wishes to be presented that the Prosecutor's Office has to deal with it again, but it is the joint work of the police and the prosecution. Of these 158, 53 cases were completed by the report. At this point, 78 counts of crimes are under consideration. I must also say that most of these crimes are being dealt with today, those detected in 2014 and 2015, as well as in 2016. There are only 8 such cases that go back to 2012 or 2013. I must also say that the police have actually detected or dealt with crimes practically in all banks. Therefore, no bank is more or less under scrutiny, but the activities actually take place in all these institutions. It was also mentioned that it was late or too late for something to be done in 2015. Some recent data are presented in response to the Government. Otherwise, this training is taking place all the time, but it is true, and I must repeat that over the past few years we have had great difficulties, including with regard to the provision of adequate resources, including with regard to funding for training at the international level. All of this has now been assured and, of course, all of those about 50 police officers or criminals, investigators of the National Investigation Office, has been working intensively on these cases all the time. Of course, they also have the right results. I think I need to respond to some of the statements concerning the statement made by the Minister of the Interior. It is simply that what we now find behind us is possible crimes, of course our priority. She pointed out, however, that, on the basis of these experiences and those findings that we are making in pre-command and criminal proceedings, this should also be incorporated into the system in order not to be repeated in the future. Of course, her statement is not in the direction that what happened was and that we should just keep looking. I think it's imperative to point that out. It is certainly clear, however, that the involvement of all institutions is crucial in the examination of such difficult matters as I have mentioned. I must say that the participation of the National Investigation Office and the Criminal Police in full with all these institutions – the Financial Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Bank of Slovenia, with which we have an agreement – is going well. Part of the credit for the good results we have in the investigation is, of course, also on this account. It is, however, a fact, as I said, that the accusations, the proofs and, of course, the final achievement of the legal judgments is a process that is likely to take some time and experience the epilogue in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u71	The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. A little while ago, the representatives of Poland were here, and we applauded them. Mrs Muršič also said that she wished them a successful visit. But I will therefore wish successful talks to our government and other representatives. It would be nice to ask them how to deal with migrants and how to treat secret services, especially why the Poles live better today than we do and in 1991 they lived worse than we do. We have right governments there, they don't know what the political left is. They don't come to Parliament. Okay. What do the citizens think about today's session? Mrs Murgel used to say how difficult this is, how terribly difficult it is to prove how impossible it is to prove certain things, so I'm talking about banking crime. And yet I have received one message, although it is a familiar person who gives an excellent answer to Mrs Murgel. It says, however, that if an indictment is acceptable for some prosecutors, which is referred to as "an unknown day in an unknown place in an unknown communication way, an unknown promise of a prize" – that is sufficient for an indictment, that is sufficient for a conviction at 1st degree, that the conviction at 2nd stage, that is also sufficient in the Supreme Court, and only in the Constitutional Court – then the same should be sufficient for the signatories of these bank credits that signed that day because the date is on the credit card. Therefore, the signatories are known, the number of credits they have approved is known, so everything is known. Then that should do it. Perhaps you would give Mrs Klanjskov these cases, then it will be successful, she will condemn everything, everyone on the Visit. This is the duality that I would also like to point out to Mrs Murgel. Of course, she talks about beautiful desires and so on, she also has beautiful desires, as she said earlier, to search this bank hole to bring those responsible before the hand of justice and not least to prison. But when it has to be signed under this, it reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has become aware of the state of investigation of the bank hole. The National Assembly recommends that the Government prepare a special plan to speed things up," but no, this is the end. Mrs. Murgel would have solved it, amazingly, with higher wages. I'd be more motivated by judges and prosecutors. Logically, if I went to college tomorrow to work, then I'd take on higher salaries for teachers, but it's a little immoral to stand up for higher salaries for judges and prosecutors because you know you'll be their component tomorrow. It's a little ugly, it's not right, it's not right and it's not fair. We're gonna have to wait for court practice. That's what the minister and she said. Yeah, of course we'll have to wait for court practice, but we've been waiting since 1994, then it was the first bank hole. It was the same question back then. Has anyone been convicted of a bank hole since 1994? No, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is no. So we're just gonna wait for all this court practice that we're obviously not going to be waiting for. That is what the head of the National Investigation Office suggests in his replies, such are the words of the first prosecutor, Mr Kozina, if you would like. So we're going to wait for 2030 when we say: Okay, in 2013 it went 5 billion in the "louft", it's gone, and nobody's to blame. That's the purpose of today's session. If you're all for chasing the people who caused this bank hole, then give me something else to do. We've done our part. We have done our part by proposing conclusions, but we cannot do more than the opposition, but this coalition rejects them. Mrs. Murgel also talked about tycoons. Aren't those some thieves, or what would a man call it? But did the word tycoon even exist in Slovenian journalistic, political or other languages in 2007? Was it real? Those of you who have been Members of Parliament for a long time, do you think it existed? She didn't exist. I must say that in November 2007 there was an extraordinary meeting of the then composition of the National Assembly, at which the opposition just before the Presidency of Slovenia in the European Union shouted how everything was wrong and that the Janša government must fall. But to take responsibility and form the government, no, it was just blah blah blah. At that time, for the first time by Janez Janša, some kind of enhanced criminal and prosecutorial struggle against the tycoons was announced for this booth. I have to say that I was sitting there in that office back there, and I went to look at the dictionary quickly, what the tycoon means. The next day, he was attacked by all the newspapers that this man was talking about, what he was saying, what he was saying. Today we all talk and write about tycoons. Isn't that interesting? But there's more to be done in the fight against them. What is essential today is, therefore, the fact that 5 billion have disappeared, that 2 000 500 euros per Slovenian citizen has disappeared. Not all of these amounts are crimes, but most of them are likely to be. If Icelanders were able to send 80% of such credits to prison in less than 4 years, today the fundamental question is all Slovenian policies, why there is not one in Slovenia, why we do not have one in Slovenia. What I'm saying about this whole thing is that -- that's what I said earlier, Secretary of State, at first, I hope you've heard -- that the police should not be allowed to report some major inactions. Because in all this time, in these three or how many years since they've been doing this, there are still so many and so many criminal charges and about 800 million euros. I don't have any special problems, or I'd like it to be 3 billion, but okay, it's at least 800 million. But you said the D.A. was directing. I wouldn't praise them too much. It is true that they are directing, but if they are guided in the right way, in accordance with the legislation, then they have a full review of the situation in this area. When they get a criminal complaint, as you yourself said, a criminal charge is not a bunch of papers that the prosecutor wouldn't be aware of. In principle, the Prosecutor is aware of the information contained in the criminal complaint. Here comes a narrow throat like in an hour from the sand, if you want, a narrow throat, where things no longer go forward. However, in all three years, 20 new prosecutors continued the investigation phase of 133 million. That this would be in front of a judge, but we're done. So here's the problem. We have a problem here. First in the prosecution, and then in justice in a narrow sense of the word, so in the judicial system as one who should have gone through it, he's obviously not going to overdo it. It is our responsibility to accelerate this in accordance with what we can do to the politicians, with legislative changes and with what else, which the judiciary must do. This is the wrong message from today's session. When we leave the meeting, the President of the National Assembly will say that he is closing the meeting and that we will see each other again, instead of voting on some of the decisions we have proposed, the Committee has rejected them. Why have two faces? One for viewers, a mask up and speak nicely against banking crime, how to process them and so on. And then the mask down and the new mask up, and then I'm against it. I don't know why. I don't understand. I don't understand. Why do you say that first because people are looking at us, and then I'm against it when we vote? Let's break it. However, it seems to me that it is only in my mind that such conclusions, which are extremely harmless and which are extremely beneficial for citizens as a whole, should be supported. Because after all, gentlemen, let's be clear, the data released days ago is a disaster. In 1991, according to the gross social product of the entire socialist bloc, we were the most developed country. Even today I remember my trip to Hungary around 1993, where I saw there behind the road, that it was a gas station, and in fact one barrel on one table was set up. Ladies and gentlemen, where is Hungary today? Not because of Mr. Grimes who's here. Hungarians, Poles, Slovaks, Czechs, it's all gone. And we're down there against Romania and Bulgaria. Also due to the 5 billion-dollar bank hole, which represents more than half of the state budget. But if we look at this as a second time, this is one whole state budget. That is also why Slovenians today have smaller salaries and smaller pensions than they could have. Because these people from the countries I counted earlier, they weren't dealing with things like us. They've done their part in these countries. First of all, they've made privatisation as appropriate, not theft of state property as we have. Secondly, they have broken with the past, and we are introducing the past into the present, and we are setting up monuments for those who once killed. We've got another big difference. Before the Hungarian Parliament in 1993, I saw all the monuments of socialism, 2010 and 2011, when I was there for the second time, nothing more. Nothing more from this history. When I asked where it was, they said: 20 kilometers from Budapest, here's a ticket, 15 euros, and go watch those monuments, those Stalins and Lenins. This is the second difference between these countries. There are many more of these differences. That's why they live better today than we do. By pressing the "against" button at a board meeting that has prevented today's vote on these conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, you are pressing a key that says "wanting an even worse life". If that's what you want for the people, if that's what you want for the people, I don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u73	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u74	Good afternoon. Colleagues and colleagues, how many times? How many times have we talked about these banking matters in this house? In my short political career, several times. Why? Because of the obvious lack of concrete results, those responsible for the bank hole would be in prison. In 2013, it will now be 3 years from now, the second time we have repaired our banking system. This second resolution of the banking system cost us €5 billion, which is more than half of the state budget. We're talking about missing health care, missing pensions, better roads, better infrastructure, second track. With those 5 billion, they'd do all one, two, three. Let's say we fight for the military for 46 million euros, we sweat and we try and we can't find them. Here's 5 billion euros, so "woof". To make it more plastic – every Slovenian citizen is deprived of EUR 2 000 500, a few minimum wages. As a result, no one is still in prison today, since we had the first recovery that it was the second. I'm sure that what destroys our country is what provokes some anger in people, that after these 25 years of independence to the extreme, they're dissatisfied, because they feel that if you drive over a village 15 kilometers an hour too much, you'll pay 100 euros, they'll get you immediately, and someone who's responsible for a billion-dollar hole is nothing. Whatever things we do, once these things start happening, people don't respect the institutions of the state anymore, it's all the same, it's all the same, it's all the same. Once that happens, of course, there is no respect for any institution, and the country is rotting in our living body. What's the problem? I think Banka Slovenije invited all the parliamentary groups to an interview where they presented their work to us, their efforts and so on. I was shocked when I found out the next thing. You know the story of the Factor Bank and Probank. There was an administration that approved a multimillion-dollar loan, even though the credit committee said no. After these two banks were rehabilitated, and when this administration that did this was resolved, those who came to rehabilitate the case were just attacked. What happened? They have been forgiven by the Court if it is a normal business practice in Slovenia. You can't believe this is possible, but it's obvious. To be absolute, this same administration, which was accused of doing something because there was no agreement by the credit board, was incriminating those who "snatched" them. That's amazing. Let me just say again that this is what's killing someone's hope for a better Slovenia. That is why, if this house, all of us sitting together in these chairs, will not see to it that we do it in a few years or sooner. The only problem is that I feel frustrated that in the opposition we can bark, we try, we work, we propose, and even though the coalition sees all these things, it doesn't do anything. But at the end of the day, when the mandate is over, people will say if you're all in this house. But then it comes down to all of us, even though we try to make things better. So what is the problem, and how do we solve the matter? Apparently, according to Banka Slovenije, both Banka Slovenije and the police have made a strong commitment that the charges have gone forward, but it all comes to light with the prosecution, because the prosecution is obviously not adequately qualified to process and provide appropriate legal explanations or adequate evidence standards to convict and imprison these criminals in the courts. It can be no different if the Secretary of State has reported how many things he has taken from the police to the prosecutor’s office and from there to 2013 — so far it has been three years — nothing. I think that banking crime could be pursued in Slovenia in the same way that the Italians were dealing with the Mafia. They set up a special department of prosecutors, gave them 24 hours protection, and paid them well. And there were some results. Unfortunately for us, even the prosecutors at the initiative of Banka Slovenije are not too interested in further implementation. This is the only way I can see the solution for things to move around. To set up a special group of state prosecutors who will deal only with banking crime. I hope that a step forward will be taken then.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u75	Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, President. When we talk today about this banking crime or the bank hole, and when my colleague Vinko first asked what citizens think about today's meeting, I think we'd understand a lot better if we told our citizens that we were talking about a bank hole that's going up to 2 000 euros for each Slovenian or, if you want, every five-pensioned pensioner, respected colleagues from Desus, or every employee in the amount of three of his guaranteed salaries. Dear fellows, we must not keep our eyes closed. Let's face it, someone else is somehow responsible for this bank hole. But everything that's been done so far has been a few investigations, charges, and judgments nowhere in sight, and I don't think there's gonna be anything soon. In our party, as has been said today, already in 2013, we have made the first request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject, according to the subject of the responsibility to reveal those responsible for this bank hole. At that time we made seven recommendations, but of course the coalition did not accept any of these recommendations. We have heard that this has also been pointed out in 2013 by the Anti-Corruption Commission, which was led by the current Minister of Justice, but also by this Commission has not been successful. However, I must say that I am deeply concerned about the statement made by State Prosecutor Jožet Kozina, who said at one of the meetings of the Committee on Internal Affairs last year: "We no longer control and control the banking sector." I must say, I was probably not the only one who was deeply concerned about this. Otherwise, we also listen to similar statements by the Secretary of State of Dragonje, and I think that this was on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, which says that it is about public finances for the fight of three institutions – banks, governments and SDH. This is very worrying for our country and our citizens. Today, we have heard that we could certainly use Iceland as an example. In two years, Gore was convicted of all those involved in this banking crime and also seized unlawfully acquired property. But here I would like to point out that effective prosecution and, finally, some judgment ultimately still depends on the functioning of the judicial system, which we cannot at all say works well, let alone transparent. We are also witnessing a wide variety of experiences. The case is our investigative commission, led by colleague Anže, where all witnesses have one common disease, the real disease of memory loss. I'm afraid, Angie, that you'll find this disease, too, but I don't believe so. In these cases, if someone who once held a position at the top of an institution’s supervisory board, today, after a few years or even months, does not remember what was happening in the near past, such a person was not for such a job or, I will say otherwise, if he is lying, it is probably an even more worrying fact. We are faced with cases where a piece is snorkeling through the Ljubljana bank for a greasy payment to find or better to hide or hide certain data of those who caused this bank hole. I am also asked here why Judge Desha Cener has for seven months somehow stalled the procedure itself, so that this investigative commission has not obtained any important data on which to proceed. We are faced with cases of people sitting in the boards of banks and supervisory boards today who in the past have been lending credits and have now been appointed to the very top of these institutions for the prize. Here I would like to point out to my fellow Members that this is all the fault of the country. I have to say, I'm terribly afraid that one day, maybe this will happen soon enough, but we'll find out that we have a third recapitalisation ahead of us. Unfortunately, this is how this system of ours works. The poor will be even poorer, but the rich will be even richer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u77	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get ready, mags. Dušan Verbich and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues who continue in the hall, including representatives of the government! The debate that we are hearing and leading here today is of course important in my personal opinion, although the presence of Members in Parliament or in this Chamber does not exactly indicate that they would be interested in this debate. However, in general, I am saddened that there is virtually no debate in the National Assembly – even this debate on crime in banking is no exception – when it does not engage in dialogue with each other's accusations, ideological charges and division to the left and right. And probably for all the frauds that have been recorded in the past, we can't exactly divide everything into the left and right. I find it difficult to take responsibility both for myself and for the client Desus, but in some ways we're a beacon. It has been said – I believe that my esteemed colleague Pojbich has been charged – that Desus, not only Desus, the entire left provine, i.e. the left party, is part of the criminal association, that we are somehow connected. Let someone explain to me how we're connected. It's really absurd what some debaters have here. The fact is, we're not effective. There's probably a thousand and one reason we're not effective, but we could be. Let me read a few things. It begins, of course, with appropriate legislation. I think we have a whole bunch of laws. We have also accepted many in this mandate or modified them through some novelties, complemented them. It will be difficult to find an argument here why we are not effective. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code has, inter alia, established higher penalties for corruption or corruption crimes against the economy and against official duty. Finally, the limitation period from 10 to 20 years is extended. Furthermore, the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest provides a legal basis for systematic investigations of irregularities in major investment projects that we or we will pay, of course, by taxpayers. Further, ZBan-2, or Banking Act, has arranged for access to data protected as bank secrecy. It defines that the bank must provide data protected as bank secrecy if these data are required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption, and so on. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation. This Regulation limits the possibility of misuse of the Institute of Liabilities in the context of personal bankruptcy. The Act amending and supplementing the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks defines the notification of any offence notified or otherwise carried out by persons having direct or indirect links to a bad bank. The Bank Resolution and Forced Cessation Act, which will give the competent authorities effective instruments and powers to deal with the banking crisis in advance and to protect financial stability and reduce exposure to tax losses. The Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. I do not know how this law is actually applied, but these are all mechanisms of de jure, laws, legal remedies that enable effective action. I believe there are still many of these laws, but I am not too much in this area, so that I can now list all these laws, which have improved, which allow for effective action. And it's not just laws, but if we go any further, there's other measures. Lately, 30 new state prosecutors and state prosecutors have been employed. For all restrictions, all restrictions on employment in the public administration or public sector in the broadest sense of the word. The legal basis is established for the establishment of a special department for procedures relating to the confiscation of assets of illicit origin in the Specialized State Prosecutor's Office. A whole bunch of educations were on this topic. A special inspection group has been established and so on. If anything is necessary in the budget for limited financial resources, in terms of additional employment, from the point of view of information technology, logistics, what else do I know, it is necessary for the relevant institutions, the competent ministries to come up with these proposals, to properly incorporate the matter, to calculate into the budget for the next period and we will be happy to support these matters if I speak to them. The objective must be clear, however, that we should step on the fingers of those who have sinned in the past in this area. It's probably not the only area. It is likely that there will be another talk in this national assembly about an arms affair and that there will be more. We've recapitalized the state bank twice. Twice. I'd be clearly disappointed, and I'm sure the third war, the third recapitalisation can't come. The measures and money thrown into the rehabilitation of the banking system were enough. At the same time, I express clearly not only my desire, but my desire that no new bottomless well will appear. And I don't want to be any negative prophet, but there's enough comfort, enough banks one, rehabilitation banks two, rehabilitations and so on. I think we've exhausted all the "quiscots" on this subject, if I may say a little metaphorically. I think all these laws that I have cited could probably be the key to the CAP. We all know that well enough. A healthy farmer's mind, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I'm not the one who'd want a witch hunt in this place and all on the average to accuse someone if it's from this click, it's from this provenance, but if I give one example, the official car, the record exists, someone is using it. Someone parks it wrong, throws it away and doesn't have to trace it. Of course he can come. Exactly who was using the car at the time, where the car was parked, who was responsible for it at the time. The same is true in the system of banks that have been recapitalised. We know who was sitting in the boards, who was sitting in the boards, who knew who was taking or should have made decisions. I don't think there should be any trouble here. Of course, the matter needs to be handled properly so that things do not fall down like mature pears from trees. I find you really difficult – the opposition and the coalition up or down – as a coalition MP, I imagine that I see on television a great hunt, police sirens, and they bring this one, the one, a little sit down, and eventually they let it go. I believe that since the initial phase, from the very start of police prosecution, Banka Slovenije has previously been working, which I think has been doing its job quite correctly lately, cannot be stopped by the prosecution. It's just hard for me to imagine these things. I think it has been enough time, I think that this debate, as I said in the beginning, is not over, but very useful. After all, it is likely that pressure or public opinion may work in some way, especially on those who need to do something about it. I don't think it's anything negative or anything bad. I only hope that this kind of debate and such conclusions, one or the other, will fall behind and that something will of course change. I believe that we have learned from past, mildly speaking, irregularities, past'shampari' things, that such and similar things will never happen again, and this is, of course, all in the interest of all those who have sent us to the National Assembly or sent us, and rightly and justly expect a better life, higher pensions, less social exclusion, better tomorrow. I don't want it to be my naivety, I don't have two faces, I don't have masks, I don't mean anything. It may not be wrong to take any conclusions either, but I think that this is an opinion that is being created, which we are also helping or, above all, Members to co-form, that it will have some influence and that we, too, will come to an end in Iceland not only in football but also in searching for banking irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u79	The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Get ready, mags. Dušan Verbich and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Prikl, I have a question for you that will not [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you've got plenty of time. It's going to be very simple, super-scientific and very collegiate. You have listed a number of measures that have been taken. You listed the laws, you listed the education, you listed the training, you listed the new prosecutors, which, by the way, is 20 and not 30, but fine. Let's add 20 "my" investigators to the NPU. You may have forgotten that. Now for the question. Why isn't there a bank crime arrest on Povjet, and in Iceland, three and eight months is the majority? If you can answer that, I'll be very happy. Because I actually have to sign for your performance. Did you say something wrong? No way. It's all right, it's all right, it's all right. But what's disturbing is two things for me. One is from the past when you haven't been to Desus or been to Desus, but at least you haven't been a Member, say in 2006. When we in the first Janša government discussed the models of privatisation of the Ljubljana Bank or the banking system, banks, if you like, worked hard at that time, proposals that were on the table were good, and 25 shares and so on, but your client chief was already saying: Bye, I'm leaving, God doesn't give privatisation. Bye, I'm leaving, he said. That's what they say the story's gonna fall apart. I remember, for example, Mr Žnidaršič, who was also your then Member. When he came to Mr Tank for coalition negotiations, he had nails and hammers in his bag every time and said he was going to kill a nail in a coalition coffin. As soon as we had a theme like this. Also the topic of the privatisation of the banking system. If that happened then and there was a privatisation, I think we could take her. But the reason was the coalition partners, and I'm thinking mostly about your client, and then it didn't happen. That's the first problem we've had. Of course we have this problem. If banks were owned by others and not by the Republic of Slovenia, it would probably be the same as elsewhere, there would not be such a bank hole and probably those owners would recapitalise, not the citizens, or the citizens would give only a quarter of what we have given today. Here's the problem. We also have to agree at this point that it would be really good to sell everything, and in 2013 it would be good to sell everything. And another euro next to it, just that someone wants to have it when you have a five billion-dollar bank hole. That's the problem. But the other problem I have is conclusions. As innocent conclusions as they are, and here is the party prestige, if the opposition has suggested it, we will not support it. After all, your client has also shown some principle in interpolation, as it is called, and you have even voted in favour of interpolation. Then you'll have to decide. New from SMC because they're new, but Desus is just one client who's been on the political scene for a long time. What would be wrong if we voted in favour? I don't think anything would be wrong, even if these new people in Parliament, if I may say so, all of us open our eyes and ears together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u81	Thank you, Dr. Gorenak. The next debater is mag. Dušan Verbich, Mr. Jože Tanko must be prepared for him. Replica, I'm sorry. Lord Prikl, here you are. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much. If I knew, Mr. Vinko, that you were going to ask me something, I'd give you a little more time. I believe that if we were to go into action, we would bring them to Povjetovo, to all inclusive variants and for a long time. But this is a question of the million dollar question, as it's called. As far as privatisation is concerned. You know very well that both Desus and I are very sensitive. Privatisation just like that, sells just like that or sells it just like that – no matter what. However, I am sure that the analysis and the plan itself, what has not been confirmed on the Committee, are not the right and effective measures to bring this to the bottom. But I don't have any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u83	Mag. Verbich, your word. And after you, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, Ambassadors, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! I don't think I'm going to do anything wrong if I'm going to give a piece of the answer to a respected colleague in my debate, but it was through the debate that I was going to touch it, and I don't want any other thinking. I am going to start my debate in the first place in the last year in this National Assembly and in the Home Committees, and I am going to start it today. The responsibility for the 5 billion-dollar bank hole is on the part of members of the boards of supervisory boards of state-owned banks, in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia and supervisory institutes, according to the audit houses, because, we know, before each annual report, the annual report received by shareholders has been revised. It's a responsibility story for me. On the other hand, we can talk about how we can now bring into this responsibility what we all want and what has also been exposed many times in the debate today, this is a comparison with Iceland. I'll touch that right away. The proposal by the proposer, I must admit, is very interesting and I welcome it, but I will allow myself to comment on it in two parts or two. One is the comparison of Iceland and Slovenia, and the other is the statement made by the state prosecutor mag. Goats. If I touch the comparison of Iceland and Slovenia. I must admit that, to some extent, I cannot agree with this debate, which is constantly comparing Iceland and Slovenia. It simply cannot be compared, since Iceland, at the time of the financial crisis, the three largest banks that threatened the financial system of the country, simply pushed or initiated bankruptcy proceedings and resolved bankruptcy. They proved that this was an excellent move, and those of us who follow a little while ago could even detect information that, due to the successful resolution of state banks through this process, a short time ago, they had directed a few hundred euros to all citizens. It was like some kind of satisfaction for the time when the state was a bad owner. In Slovenia, however, we had a completely different approach. This is why it is difficult to talk about why Icelanders already have a number of bankers who are closed if I can say so, but at the same time it must be acknowledged that they are not only imprisoned, literally in their system they have succeeded in bringing against certain groups of bankers or individuals and in completing legal and redress actions, so is the judgment. That's part of it. Part two. Why were they so successful? The fact is that the Icelandic legal system had already had certain guardians in a number of laws, which they had foreseen in the case of such abuses that we are now talking about, that is, suspected of abuse or banking crime, and therefore the law enforcement authorities, together with Mrs Joly, could be so effective and could act quickly. The point is that both conditions were cumulatively met in their case. All I can say is, it's easy to congratulate them. What about us? Before the recapitalisation, it was interesting that even the conclusion of the current government, whatever it was, which I will also touch a little later in the debate, was the backstopping of two private banks. More than that, not just Factor and Probank, even Abank and so on. The first measure before the recapitalisation was, therefore, the maintenance of private banks. This was followed by the recapitalisation of taxpayers’ money. Because of this, it is not at all a comparison that we can say, somehow equivalent, that we can take some models from, say, a country that is somewhat similar to our size. The third thing is what I think we're all concerned about here, at least the ones we're still here, the ones that aren't, maybe they're looking more at these things and not so seriously. It must be acknowledged that a great deal of activity in these segments of the authorities is persecuting, particularly with the NPU, and, if I am very specific, probably also by individual prosecutors. Hundreds of indictments, but unfortunately here I fully agree with the proponents and all those who have practically participated in these proceedings on this material, what it means to us. How many charges are legal? It is said that the so-called pursuit machinery works, but without effect. What is worrying is that if an indictment happens to be legally binding, in a court of law, it happens in a court of law that there are exonerations. And that's what has to worry about everything. To educate and train, I think that each of us certainly has a separate opinion, because training for such things to talk today, and these events have been happening almost 10 years ago, is another story. Fourth thing. Nevertheless, I think, at least as far as I am concerned, I am optimistic that, despite the fact that there were a few words today about the complication of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, those who were at least a little active in this matter know what this was all about. More or less. But the important thing is that this parliamentary banking committee is doing great. Clearly, I must admit here that I am joining all those who are somehow giving full support to the President of this Commission, because it is clear that much effort is being made mainly by the fact that some data and conclusions are actually being reached through this parliamentary commission of inquiry. It is frightening that people who simply lose their memory have been selected to manage state property. I allowed myself on one of the committees to ask myself what their job skills were. But these are things that will happen in one way or another through debates – that is why I join any such debate, because it is also a tool on our part, that we may nevertheless help to do this – move more intensely. This means that if I conclude this part, in favour of my colleague from Desus, the fact is that our policy or government has decided to take a completely different approach, but unfortunately we can find out what I have mentioned, that almost none of the hundreds of indictments filed are legally binding. That's the reality. The second part concerning the statement, which has been mentioned many times in the debate of the Attorney General of Magi. Goats. I must admit that I resent the proposaler a little bit, because all that was said is absolutely true when he frankly said that in 12 to 15 years there might be convictions. He also said that we can think of what the payment of that money would be. I'm surprised there was talk about some amounts, but that's really a question. We would be happy to have the amounts he listed. But what is crucial and which I have not seen in the debate today, nor by the proposer, is the following. The well-respected state prosecutor has given special importance with great weight and substance. What did he say – precisely stated in the debate – in February 2015? "The main evil for the ineffective prosecution of bankers has been done in the National Assembly, by enacting a cumbersome legislation." If we are realistic and objective, I think it is also our duty in this House that procedural reasons are likely to limit the effective work of law enforcement authorities. I agree, however, that certain such matters are not the reason for the inefficiency of the whole system, and that is definitely the case. There's only so much for that introductory part. As I believe that today's political debate on the subject, which has been given by the proposer, I must admit that I personally believe that, despite the shortcomings, despite the inconsistencies and even in spite of the individual legal emptiness of the laws – the Law on Banking, the Law of Economic Companies, the Penal Code and the ECJ – I am convinced that in individual cases, I could not speak of plurality, but of individual cases, within a reasonable period, not within 13 years, but within a reasonable period of time, also in the process of detection and prosecution of convictions of individuals. In this case, I am tying up the basic thesis that I will always defend until there is any concrete argument that they are members of the boards and members of the supervisory boards of the state-owned banks. However, I believe that, in order to produce what Mr Kozina has made very clear to all of us, especially the reason for this, or, if I say otherwise, the likelihood that policy has been actively involved in all the years following the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and allowed for a party, if I may say so, from good banking practice, through the ownership role played by the State. But we know who runs the property of the state, and this is the executive branch of the government, the government and in this case individual ministers. Even with the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was adopted a few years ago, nothing changes significantly in this process. Only some procedures are slightly different, and it is also right that they are so arranged. The fact is that today and even in the future, as we speak, the content revolves around these so many state-owned banks. NLB, NKBM, where it is also right that some other matter is said about it, despite the fact that property has already changed, the Bank and, now, we and we will be quite busy in the coming weeks and months, Probank and Factor Bank. The fact is, in this process, the role of the owner or manager of the state property has been placed by persons who, in addition to that fundamental function, have probably abused that position, whether it is for the personal interest or interest of the interest groups, which is usually increasingly said. But I'd like to put a special emphasis on one piece. I am sorry that, on the part of the signatories, in this case of the Non-Aligned Members, there is no presence, because I would expect you to be so present here that the one who signs is also active in some way. The 2013 decision of the government, whose president is today a respected Member, has led to the private bank's backing. What for? But what's a little bit strange in some direction is the state of the banks that were already known to be in the so-called collapse of banks. Later, the policy, together with the Bank of Slovenia, decided on the so-called controlled liquidation. Why it is controlled, only the one who has taken this decision knows. Speaking in the public interest of a single bank, if I say so, representing only 2% of the balance sheet sum in the Republic of Slovenia, I do not think that this is exactly the case with some of the most professional opinions, but it is a reference to public interest, while protecting the interests of individuals and perhaps those who have caused such a situation, sometimes also worth a conversation or discussion about it. Here I agree with the comparison with Iceland that if Iceland has decided to send truly such large banks with a balance sheet amount into bankruptcy and this has not been a threat to the financial stability of the country, because in this case they have taken other mechanisms in parallel, it is difficult to understand that banks with a two percent balance sheet total are threatening the financial stability of the Republic of Slovenia. Why do I think that politics has also affected the formation of a 5 billion-dollar bank hole? In what way? My personal position is that over influence. The first impact is certainly through the legislative branch of power. Here I have already mentioned that two decades in the National Assembly have been passed laws that have proved to have legal empties. Here I immediately add my opinion that I do not blame if I can use this word to ensure that it is not abused, Members. Because the fact is, the National Assembly is a political body. This is a responsibility on the part of the executive branch, the government, the departmental ministry that prepares individual laws, and – which has not yet been discussed in the National Assembly – I think now is the time – even the external advisors of governments who have been preparing certain materials or who are preparing legislative changes. If governments have been misled, responsibilities are not burdened. They adopted legislation in the National Assembly. And I firmly believe that it was not just a politically friendly statement of mags. The fur that laws are lax therefore prevents the effective prosecution of individuals who have used abuse of state-owned bank management. The second impact is certainly through the executive branch of power, as I have already mentioned. The fact is that, or through the executive branch, individuals were appointed as members of the supervisory board, and they were then appointed by members of the administration. The fact is that these persons were confirmed at a meeting of shareholders, and at that meeting of shareholders was a representative of the Government. It is said that we cannot talk about the fact that politics has not been active in such personnel. I myself may be too strict in these thoughts, but I just think that in the delegation of such activities, even today, when we talk about SDH, the government cannot avoid being responsible for such activities. She is the one who is obliged to manage and to be, as I have mentioned several times, the responsible owner. Third thing. Policy impact through the Ministry of Finance. I must admit that I am grateful when I have been monitoring the last hearing on the investigative committee, because this just confirms what I am about to say. Through the Ministry of Finance, deposits were made to state banks at a time when more radical measures were needed against these banks. I speak on behalf of the owner, the state or any of them. The fact is that, in this case, the policy, I hope that we understand each other correctly, has preserved the liquidity of these banks through the Minister of Finance. What does that mean today? This put pressure on the way to burden taxpayers. I would be happy to be wrong, but I just think that all the circumstances and facts in this regard point in this direction. However, I will not go into another subject, namely, the issue of guarantees, which I am almost sure have been renewed. So much for the impact of politics in such processes. If I go a little bit more to the so-called professional banking area, because I am glad that there are quite a number of good acquaintances in this National Assembly. This means that there is less and less possibility in the executive branch of power that they may try to introduce any banking voids or marriage gaps further, even though you can never be so aware or sure that they fail, but I think that when there are many of us, there are fewer possibilities. So the members of the state-owned banks' boards knew whether or not they should know. In order to know, they are very clearly bound by the company law, as well as by the conclusions of the Bank of Slovenia, which specifically speak or define what the bank manager must carry out. They are obliged to know that the granting of a loan without adequate collateral in the presence of circumstances – here is another important fact of the rating, because for each borrower, even if the amount is slightly higher, a credit assessment must be made – once it is established in the previous phase that the amount cannot be recovered can be a sign of a criminal offence. In addition to this, something else needs to be made very clear in this context. Disobservance of banking rules in itself is also a sign of crime. Whoever's checking this out wouldn't have let it go in that context. What I think the law enforcement authorities may be slightly ignoring in these proceedings, but it is right, but I believe that this situation is also taken into account, is that the members of the administrations have been aware and are also aware today that in the existing regulation governing the banking area, there are simply certain definitions which would very clearly and precisely define what a criminal offence is. Here I am now referring to those legal voids on the basis of which law enforcement authorities are certainly having major difficulties in defining the signs of crime. We can only add good links to those who have worked well in the past. I can only say that this is an excellent formula for exploiting the country and ultimately recapitalisation of EUR 5 billion. If I go back to the D.A.'s office. When I was present and very attentive on February 5, 2015, his statements were also as follows: "It is very likely that many of the great players in the Slovenian transition and, of course, who else had state banks for ATMs for their own benefit, and many of them obviously succeeded in doing so." What was possible in some direction, at least for me, is the following. According to him, some have succeeded, something has already been mentioned today, after the transition for their work to expose the taxpayers' account. If one looks at such procedures and processes – I believe that the parliamentary commission is very substantive about this – certain transactions or credit relations have come closer in some direction, at least I think, if I say in a transferable sense, irreparable means [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u85	Thanks, mag. Verbich. The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The audience is probably confused today. Once again, we listened to a speech that could almost be signed. They probably don't know what it's about. But let's go in order. Mr. Prikl first. At the end of his performance, he said that privatisation was not that they were careful there, and that it would not just be that way when I talked about how in 2006 in that government we talked about privatisation models of banks and Desus was, of course, against. But let's see the story now. At that time, for that bank – because we never really sold it, because of the threat of withdrawal from the coalition, not as I said before – we could get one billion by the finger. We'd still get that. What do we do now? Now we put 800 in it to get 200 or 250 back. Net loss, $1 billion 600, net loss. Roughly, let's leave a few million up or down. But Desus still says it isn't, and privatisation isn't. Logically, if you have an ATM in there for a reason, I don't know who everyone is. You see this madness and stupidity? They've privatized this abroad, the end, the point of amen, and that's why they don't have any problems. Mr Verbic, you were just talking about the bankruptcy of Factor Bank and Probank, which means two private banks that were supposed to go bankrupt didn't go. At the time we also had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly or at least of the Committee, I no longer know what was going on, at least the Financial Committee was safe if there was not even a plenary meeting of the National Assembly. What did we say? They need to be put into bankruptcy because these are two private banks, and what else, where a few million dividends pointed into their own pockets just before they said what a hole they had in them. But we have to add which government was then, because otherwise it stays in the air because it's all Janša's fault, and maybe they'll pin this on him. The then government was the government of Positive Slovenia. They made a decision not to take them, not to go into bankruptcy, but to say, "You have 500 million here." We gave them 500 million, but not us, not our government. This is where you draw the line. Otherwise, in this performance of yours, everything counts from responsibility to responsibility. I don't have a problem with your performance, but the question is, why is there no one in Pavšet's prison, but we've lost 5 billion. There's nothing about this shithole legislation, and I don't know what it's all about. The simple man is interested in whether I gave or took from my pocket 2 000 500 euros, from each of us who have been acquired by someone with a crime, because Paul has not yet had one. As you have just determined, no trial is yet under way. But this is the purpose of today's session to speed these things up, and you're against the conclusion. I don't understand that. Let's just leave it, and it's a good thing it's not the vote on the diaper, but whatever. You were talking about the holed legislation as a consequence of what Mr Kozina said, but this holed legislation is only for some. If we take, for example, the ones we're talking about right now in banking crime, which is bank holes and so on, it's obviously holed up in such a way that these big fish go through. But what's interesting is that this net catches every little fish. I recall that in 2012 one of the courts decided that a person's apartment house would go for sale because his husband owed 250 euros. He owed 250 euros, didn't pay the bills, the house went for sale, he was forcibly evicted. Even the police were injured, offering assistance there. Isn't that interesting? For 250 euros, we are able to sell the house of a small man, the one who took a billion or took a hundred million, and that's where the cracking legislation is. You won't convince me. But if the hole is legislation, then we have to pour two deciliters even more pure. If we take the Demos government that created this country and what much with these laws other than the self-serving ones, then everything is clear in Slovenia. We, the Slovenian political right, have been in power for five years. But all the rest are the nuances of the Slovenian political lefts, who really once stood there, then stood here, and here are usually the new plus representatives of minorities. But here are usually new ones that change every four years, but they're left-handed, we don't have anything. Then we must also divide this cumbersome legislation. The Slovenian political left created it to a large extent. Even with the responsibility you discussed further, it is true that we have nothing, but look at the details. Where are all those guys from Factor Bank and Probank who were dividends, I think there were nine million in their pocket, if you can imagine? We should be in jail on Pavšeta, but today your government, including your government, puts them in high places. Mr. Dragonja is good at it. I guess by order or what it looks like, I don't know. But why aren't they in jail? Why your government puts them in the most responsible positions in this country, in the banking system. Even in the banking system. That's a big problem. You'll be gone tomorrow, and someone will tell you how bad they were. Neither will I, because I already said I was leaving. But tomorrow, when there's another composition of the National Assembly, there's going to be some other people sitting in the middle of it, they're going to tell us how bad that government has been recruiting, and those bankers from Factor Bank and Probank have been putting even higher positions in the banking system. But that's what you did. Only then you won't be here. Problem. So this is the essential problem that we have. Iceland is not a member of the Union, but I do not believe that there is a specific justice system and some specific legislation. I don't know if that's the basic reason they're as effective as they are. I swear to God, they've made up their minds and done it. But if this pebble of yours is that you put those who should be in prison on the Visit, in positions of responsibility, then it is a contribution to the Good, how much you agree or how much you disagree on a personal level, it is a completely different question. [[…]] I can see that there are people who think and tell their own stories in the middle of some kind of mess, like down there in Primorska, and there are MPs who say that. But the Gross is a problem, and the Gross is a problem, and this is a big problem. What was our purpose today? The fact that we make it very clear to the public that the government will speed up one strong acceleration in the search for crime is 5 billion. That was our purpose. Now I see you agree with us and you vote against us. That's problematic. You voted against the committee and there will be no vote tonight. However, if the Committee supported this issue, the National Assembly would vote on these decisions today. But that's how it's gonna work out, and the wagon's moving on. But that's bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u87	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Let's get the mags ready for him. Ange Logar. These are the last two debaters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Whoever is accompanying this meeting of the National Assembly sees that on both the government’s side and the coalition’s side there is a great deal of deception, deception, involvement and so on. No one in the government or coalition has any serious intention of moving anything in this area. Just for instance. When the banking crisis occurred, Obama’s government in America released a bank that went into crisis, suspended management, rehabilitated it, and sold it three months later with profits. Then she returned the dividends to the people who lost in this work. You're talking about Iceland. The question is whether she already had one or two banking crises. What I remember was probably the first banking crisis, and in three or four years, they cleaned up more or less everything that was problematic in this banking system. We had two major recapitalisations, one in the 1990s and one now, which is only half, and in the meantime there was a whole bunch of recapitalisations that they didn't even see. None of the recapitalisations and rehabilitations of the banking system have been carried out. The people who received the deposits in the banks stayed at the banks, they switched a little between the banks and the supervisor, namely Banka Slovenije, and back again, maybe someone had become the minister of finance in the meantime and this circle was spinning. Mr Dragonja knows exactly how this system works. He was a more active politician when he was saving his brother in one of the failed banks. And now you're teaching us that we've got a hell of a law. Not a single piece of legislation is a shithole. It's because someone who should investigate and work doesn't want to do it for any reason or other. It can be an agreed part, it is said that this will not be investigated, because it is quite likely, given how things work in this justice system and, after all, in the investigative system. The excuse that it is a loophole is actually the way out to tolerate such things. Those who are attached to the gold diggers of state ownership have always had enough excuses to take things in the right direction and bring behind them a bunch of decision makers. Today is a typical example of how our system works and how this system should not work. I have asked Mr Draganjo once before about these political-level decision-makers who decide to rehabilitate the banking system and are related. Today the case is exactly the same, nothing has changed. In the previous and in this government is the same Secretary of State, who participated in the decision on bankruptcy, but the programmed liquidation of two small banks. The day before the decision on the programmed liquidation was taken, liquid assets were deposited in the state-owned bank accounts. This is therefore not a matter of stalemate legislation, but it is a completely inconsistent, unethical attitude of those who decide what will happen in these procedures. Mr Klemenčič is next of those who decide today and talk about the fact that something is wrong with the legislation. He didn't do anything for the first time. When the chairman of the anti-corruption committee refused to deliver the documentation to the National Assembly and the Commission of Inquiry, he refused to give it when he heard, he did not want to know or say anything, and now he is the one who is talking about how things should be done. It is not for free that his successor found himself walking in shoes infected with the fungi of lawlessness. What Mr Štefanec said recently on the Commission's mandate, he said for a reason. These are facts, obviously no one has denied it, not Mr Klemenčič or any other of that Senate. Now, the people who are being led by the Anti-Corruption Commission are telling us that they are walking in shoes infected with the fungi of illegality, they are saying, and they are wise to us here, how and what is right to do. No positive and encouraging action can be expected from such a person. Everything they do is focused only on how these things will be hidden and carried on through the same or similar channels. If not for one elite powered by the banking system or state property, but for another, they are all in the same pool, in the same circle or, as Mr Möderndorfer recently said, that they are all in the same value system. Can't be expected, gentlemen, nothing of this at all. The transfiguration we witness at this time is typical of these things and for this time. Everything we have proposed, Mr Verbič and the others, you have rejected, and you have not accepted a single proposal for a decision. Has the Government proposed any obligation to the judicial system to shorten the investigation deadlines for investigative actions or to shorten judicial proceedings? Nothing. Everything is done in such a way that things through these actions will linger beyond all reasonable limits and there will be an obsolescence and no one will be to blame. No one will be to blame because things will get old, the procedures will not fail, they will not be processed, and then we will get back with the new government, in fact, the same person who once participates in decisions by the Government on programmed liquidation, deciding whether the bank will be recapitalised or not, and then sells us pumpkins about what kind of legislation we have. Those same people. What is being done in this government in this area has all the signs of systemic corruption. The same people are involved in all procedures, blocking all matters, through anonymous investigations against other people who have absolutely nothing to do with it, and they do so consciously. This is systemic corruption, because conditions are being created to obtain special benefits at the expense of this, because procedures are not being initiated because legislation is not being remedied because nothing is done, absolutely nothing. You won't do anything either, because it's more than obvious. This is more than obvious and more than evident from today's session and from all of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u89	Mag. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u90	Thank you. I agree with Mr Verbic's implementation. I hope that in time there will be more implementations of this kind, that some of these voices of reason will also be in the government. If you'll allow me to devote some time to today's subject as much time as I can. We also conducted interviews with the Special Prosecutor's Office in the commission of inquiry through our expert group. When the Justice Minister, who is unfortunately no longer here with us, was talking about the government being unable to do anything, I will point out two areas where the Government could do something, but nothing has been done, which the Special Prosecutor's Office has also pointed out. The first case is the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, in which the police could conduct a hearing of witnesses in such a way that their confessions before the police could also be brought before a court. What is happening today? I quote the Special Prosecutor's Office's response: "But the official notes, although they are official notes, have no weight in proving before the court. So she can testify in court that she did not tell the police what was written in the official note that the act had happened in a completely different way, that the officer had invented or misunderstood her statement." In this respect, the Ministry of Justice has done absolutely nothing yet. Next: "Witnesses who know something about bank crimes come from the bank as a rule," attention, "which also employs a suspect. As a rule, they are witnesses in lower positions and subordinated to the suspect, and the latter is influential, not only in the specific bank, but also in the wider Slovenian banking area." Then you wonder why no one is convicted. In a system that requires a direct conviction, the main or very important argument is whether or not the conviction will occur. So why didn't you do anything about it? Why haven't you done something in this area where we could take one major step forward in the effectiveness of the judiciary for the current cases. Amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act concerning the conclusion of an agreement on the recognition of guilt. Again, I quote the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office: "The accused shall conclude an agreement with the Prosecutor's Office on the admission of guilt, but the Prosecutor's Office shall not provide any additional information which would be useful for further investigation or proof of the guilt of other perpetrators. However, even if I were to charge others with a declaration, these performances shall not be used in criminal proceedings unless the defendant repeats them again before the court after receiving a legal instruction for the witness." Essentially: "The law should allow the accused to declare legally binding confessions at the time of the conclusion of the agreement and that this confession would be applicable in further criminal proceedings against other persons." What have you done in this area? In other words, if we wanted to convict the culprits for the bank hole, these procedural changes, which are not otherwise applicable to the back, would have been useful for banking crime from the day you entered the government, which is, as of September 2014, probably today, one of them would have been sitting. Therefore, the Minister of Justice here cannot say that there is absolutely nothing responsible and that in all systems or all governments where he participated there were no conditions to improve the prosecution of banking crime. Here we have some free parachutes talking about Janša's government being responsible for all banking crime, that the bank hole was created in the time of Janša's government. Now I really don't understand you. The bank hole was thus created in the time of the Janša government, the left has power and does not use this option. So if banking crime was created in the time of the Janša government, if you throw it out of the National Assembly, why don't you go through every day of his government, when a bank hole arose, find the main criminals and convict them. Well, if this is what happened at the time of the Yangtze government, it's gotta be Yanshe's fault, isn't it? But you are well aware that the story is slightly different, that if banking crime occurred between 2004 and 2008 and then until 2013, you will be in those who have dug a bank hole, maybe find some SDS member and it is right to answer, but you will find thousands of Forum 21 members — well, Forum 21 does not have thousands of members — or many Forum 21 members, many sworn members of the left and many who may not even imagine being in this society. I have to close, I'm sorry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u91	Thanks, mag. Ange Logar. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. A government representative has the floor. May I give a word to either of you? The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'll be extremely brief. I listened very carefully to this part of the debate. I think that the only thing that is my assessment at the end is that, in this sense, there may be a missed opportunity to discuss precisely specific matters, what to make a concrete change or what might help all law enforcement authorities and, of course, also the judiciary. Unfortunately, the proposed conclusions were more evaluation or analysis, and I think we are very well aware of the situation, which has also been demonstrated by today's debate, so concrete proposals could be drawn up and would also be helpful to the Government. No matter what I said, the government knows what to do, the government is doing it. Finally, we also have the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code will change, and I am sure that all of us who cooperate in this matter will, of course, take these suggestions and proposals into account in this design. I also expect the support of the entire National Assembly, when we consider, for example, the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, where we propose a different regime, so that the National Investigation Office and, of course, the police as a whole will still be effective. These are those measures, and this is what I hope in the debates and in this National Assembly we will also adequately support and thereby increase the efficiency of our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u93	The text is by a representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u94	But I was only hoping that Mr Dragonja would say something about how to frame criminals. Excuse me. A little earlier, Ange Logar, a colleague, spoke about amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. The Law on Criminal Procedure at the Ministry of Justice has been written in 70 to 75 % for seven years. By the end of 2008, all these articles, including those referred to by Mr Logar, had already been written, the law was there. But how long has it been and the law isn't in Parliament? Let's get him out of here, because the story is that whatever you tell a criminal, you can think about it at any time, and it doesn't apply in court. It's not valid. However, this bill removes the so-called judicial investigation, which no one knows in Europe anymore, and we still have it and at the same time gives evidence to the official labels and other documents that the suspect gives to the criminalist. Let's go to the essence of today's session. Today we can figure out two or three things. Firstly, that a 5 billion-dollar bank hole has been created, that 5 billion have disappeared, that a large part of this amount is most likely to constitute crimes or at least serious suspicions of crimes that should be investigated by judicial authorities. We have further found that Iceland was in a similar situation before us, and that is exactly what we have been able to find out what Mr Verbic had previously said that they had put in bankruptcy. Makes sense. What are you gonna do about it? What are you gonna do about it? Of course, we have chosen taxpayers for EUR 2 000 500 and put them in these banks, including private banks – I am talking about Factor and Abank. That is why our intention today was to encourage those who, on a relationship from the police through the prosecution and the judiciary, decide the fate of these people to the Icelandic model. The Icelandic model is clear, in less than four years they searched their own bank hole. But not as much as we do. They have already sent 80 % of those who approved poor loans to prison. Not with us after all these years. In 2012, at least the prosecution and the NPU received a list of around EUR 3 billion in damages or loans that had not been repaid by the borrowers at the time and could start working. The year 2013 passed, 2014 passed, 2015 passed and we are in the middle of 2016. This is the time the Icelanders sent them to prison. We don't have a single trial to open up this moment,+ in terms of the trial, not one, except for the case of Dimic, where gentlemen's bankers were forgiven. That is why we can probably all agree — and also agree in today's debates — that this is a major problem in the country of Slovenia. But what are our differences, then, the differences between us? We suggested that we get to know this situation and you said no. You said no. Is that reasonable? It's not reasonable for me. We have further suggested that the Government should prepare an analysis of why such a situation in the investigation of banking financial crime. That's what we suggested, and you said no. Why is that? Why did you say no? We also said that the government should make a plan to improve the situation in this area, and you said no. The last thing we said was that he should rule until 30. 9. this plan presents us in the National Assembly, and you said no. Who understands you? I certainly don't. Mr. Prikl is back. Before you leave, you have sworn to state ownership or non-privatisation and you may have an opportunity to respond now that the time is shared. In 2006, when Mr. Erjavec, your boss, threatened to withdraw from the coalition, NKBM Maribor could be sold for about a billion dollars. Now we've put 800 million there to get 250 out, which means we have a billion 600 minus. Give this billion 600 to distribute among pensioners, and ask yourself what would be better – to sell or not to sell. You imagine that, don't you? There'll probably be more than two or three euros and those "ficks" you're sending to the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u95	Thank you, Dr. Gorenak. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Because I can see that, before you report in, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation from Dr Vinko Gorenak and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has a few minutes to discuss. The first is Mr. Uroš Prikl. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Not that I'm buying that colleague Gorenak is asking me to answer, but. I didn't say I was against privatisation. I have never mentioned that this is a prohibited term, but of course I am very careful about selling or selling out state property, because I am of the opinion that the state as an institution cannot be to blame for certain wrong actions. Last but not least today is not the topic of privatisation. Nor can the state be blamed for these irregularities that took place in the so-called bank hole. On behalf of the State, there were individuals who carried out supervision, who still manage and control state assets today. These are individuals, people with names and surnames. The state is difficult to answer for, but of course someone in position must bear responsibility for all his moves, as well as Members we bear responsibility for our political actions and we get the bill issued every four years if they are not early elections. I'm not here as the lawyer of Erjavc, president of my party. I also don't remember squeezing with an indicator to get out of the coalition, but some things he was forced to point out in such a way or other. I think it is correct that, in such important matters and such crucial matters, it should be noted in some way that one political option does not want to be involved in this or that which is not in line with the policy or the belief of a particular political option, in this particular case of Desus. I'm going to repeat what I said at the conclusion, and maybe because time is chasing me, I wasn't that exact. I believe that we have learned from these past wrongs or wrongs, and that something like this will never happen again. They can have long-term consequences. I'm aware of what these five billion could do with. I'm aware. Pensions for all eternal cups, not thousands, thousands of EUR 500, no problems, transfers from the state budget to the pension fund, the waiting types are thus eliminated [[Finger-toed clap]] . I know, Mr Gorenak, that you can count all these funds into lunches in our cafeteria. You can count it in children's allowances. This is a very plastic comparison, but it is simply a question of what would happen to the New Maribor Credit Bank. You seem to know me very well now, and you know where my weak spots are. There are my weak points in social life when I see socially disadvantaged, socially excluded individuals and groups of people. You know, I'm very sensitive to pensions and Maribor and Styria's end when you're left behind when you're, let's say, another violin or worse. Of course, if they knew what could happen then they would have spent a billion, they wouldn't have had to invest anything, but simply "what would have happened if it had been." If a man were a witch, he wouldn't be a poor man. This story is over, I just hope and sincerely wish that Nova Credit Bank Maribor will not be the subject of any reselling, but that it will actually play its role over the decades at least at this end of Slovenia, if not wider, of course it will. And given the fact that credits were once just over the thumb, after some friendly or whatever relationships, I hope that now there will be no other extreme that will last forever, as if the snake had stinged you, you are afraid of twisted ropes, and now we will not give credit to the real sector, not to individuals. I sincerely hope this doesn't happen. I'm out of time again, and there's something else I'd like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u97	Thank you, too. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. After him, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u98	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. Half the mandate is passed and people, our citizens, have trusted you, i.e. the coalition, and you have written in your coalition agreement, otherwise only five lines need to explore the bank holes and define responsibility. "In order to ensure the restoration of confidence in the financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the legal institution, responsibility for the resulting bank hole must be identified and the compensation and material liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks required." You didn't write that you'd do it. To date, we can say that this is mainly the part of the opposition that warns and exerts pressure. When we talk about a bank hole in a village or in a rural area, people find it difficult to live. When we talk about it, believe me, it's just a step towards mental depression, and people tell us – at least to me – to take those who took it away from them. In June 2013, the Anti-Corruption Commission, under the command of Mr Klemenčič, sent an assessment of the situation to the National Assembly, I recommend reading. On the basis of this assessment of the situation, in the previous mandate, we invited Mr Klemenčič to the Pogačnik Commission at the time and heard him. He said a lot of things, and I thought we had a thief in our hands. Among other things, he said that the boys there on the vampires in Tržaška had agreed to approve the loan. But no names, no action then. In fact, this document shows that Mr Klemenčič knew much, and I had some hope, because I was naive to be confused as a justice minister with bank criminals. Colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, if you do not close at least one from each recapitalised state bank by the end of your term of office, you will lose the election. On page 51 – I know this – is an assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in terms of systemic corruption. I'm just going to write the subtitles because it actually says everything that's been going on. They reviewed 40 transactions of an average value of €40 million after business and identified the following: "The informal delegation of business, the non-transparent implementation of investment approval procedures, the exposure of bank managers and managers to risks of abuse of position, conflicts of interest, mobile implementation, and the making of illegal and unethical demands to persons in subordinate positions, the exposure of bank managers and managers to the risk of granting investment on the basis of personal, business and political connections." It was a matter of systemic corruption, and no one has been harmed, no one has taken the slightest action, and it should be on official duty. Next, "non-transparent system for managing records of credit boards and bank administrations, the existence of informal power centres within sectors and policies within the bank and influential individuals outside the bank". Next: "Members of the administrations and supervisory boards of banks are consciously violating the laws and provisions of the ethical codes adopted." And no one got hurt. "Members of the management boards and supervisory boards of banks shall not take into account the irregularities identified by the audit reports and shall not take appropriate measures to determine compensation and criminal liability and to recall/resolve membership in the administration." And no one got hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u99	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, followed by mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State, especially Hello Mr Dragonja! When we talk about the bank hole even in the afternoon, I think that many of those Members who are in the National Assembly have also spoken positively. I'm surprised, Madam Secretary of State, at least tell us what your mission is today. Are you just going to listen or are you going to tell us something? I am sure that if any of us in the National Assembly were to run out of wallets — probably 50 euros or less — security guards would go look at the cameras and find out or find out where that wallet is. But when we talk about a bank hole of 5 billion – I'm afraid it's more – we're pushing it against ourselves, as if it's none of our business. We make these recommendations in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I was also personally disappointed on the committee when we were over-voted. When a person thinks about this vote, he can't even believe it's possible. Our goal, I stand by myself when we come to the end of this, will be an easier and more promising future for the Slovenes and the Slovenians. What, though, is the goal of those who caused this bank hole? As long as I have someone in power to cover them. They are already thinking intensively about how they will lead the campaign of the new authorities. Because that's the only thing that can save them from being exposed. Today we also made many excuses to some laws that did not follow. But respected colleagues and colleagues, if it is the will of this national council to have most of them convicted, these rascals are brighter than they were in two years. But you're not in love. Those who have enough capital work systemically and have already received a few elections. They, not you. Colleagues and colleagues on my right, none of you are to blame. Of course, I resent the fact that the President of the Government, whom I cannot understand in this segment, hold the "stango". It's been two years, a little vacation and winter, and it's probably the end of the term. But those who weaken citizens and citizens to make their lives worse think about how they will pay the media, jumbo posters, radios, ads to get new power. To keep them quiet in this big hole. I think that's irresponsible. Above all, it is irresponsible that we are in such a small number in this room today. It is even more irresponsible that there will be no vote. Dear Secretary, Mr. Dragonja, I would still like you to tell us [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, followed by Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u102	Thank you, Chairman. It's a hole. I can assure you that. I sincerely regret that the Minister of Justice is not here today. I think that he should be here and that it is extremely irresponsible that he has left this Chamber and left this important debate to parliamentarians, i.e. the executive branch of the government or the key minister of these communications does not listen. I also have to agree here with my colleague Irgle that if there were no parliamentary investigative committee in fact, I doubt that the NPU and the Special Prosecutor's Office would be quick to inform us how they are progressing with the prosecution of banking crime. But now we've come into some absurd situation when we're told every three months or four months then the NPU and SDT report about such data that it was up to 31. 5. 2016 recorded 236 crimes and 154 crimes totalling €815 million. These are the numbers. These numbers don't help anyone. You know what would be the right decision? To find one water-holding business in every bank for each banker, and not to deal with 236 crimes, but to have 6 banks with 6 jobs. To ensure that those 19 criminals are not divided into 236 businesses, but into 6 jobs and each of these 6 deals are convicted, prepared an appropriate proposal and processed in a court of law. That each of these banks should come to Povšetovo, go to the floor and while heating up that floor, deal with the other 230 crimes. This is what taxpayers expect from you, the distinguished Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the distinguished silent Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. That's what they expect from you, the well-respected late Minister of Justice. That's what they expect from you. Now let me tell you what absurdity this story has led to in pursuit of organised crime in the field of banking. I agree with my colleague Verbic's statement, which said that audit houses are indirectly responsible, but I will now read to you what the audit house Deloitte, with the signature of Prime Minister Yuri Sidorovic, replied, attention, attention, to the decision of the higher court. As you know, Desha Cener refused to seize the documents, said that we had not convinced her, put the case before the higher court, and the higher court gave the investigating committee the right to order the seizure of the documents. Deloitte’s appointment to review all the documentation requested by the Commission of Inquiry, but with the signature of the President of the Management Board, this company replied that they fully agree with the investigative judge’s doubts, i.e. Dece Cener. They then explain why they agree to this and say that, on the basis of what they have written, they find that the order of the higher court is illegal. The audit firm therefore states that, on the basis of the information provided, it finds that the order of the higher court is illegal. For the grand finale in conclusion, the last sentence is: "On the basis of the written record, we respectfully reject the execution of the order of the higher court and thank you for your understanding." Your Honor, look where you've brought this country, so that one of the big four audit houses does not comply with the higher court's decision. These are the concrete results of the policy "we don't know anything, we do well, everything is fine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u103	Thanks, mag. Logar. Mr. Tanko, your word is behind you, mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u104	Thank you very much. One more case. You may recall a press conference where three of the most responsible or most well-known for the investigation of banking crime — Mr. Majhenič, Mr. Furlan and Mr. Kozina — were sitting at the same table when they said that security guards had rejected them at the door of the New Ljubljana Bank and prevented them from accessing the documentation at the Ljubljana Bank, which you probably remember. That was last year. Now I'm just asking, what was the response, say, to the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, what was the action of the supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank, what was the response, say, to the owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, SDH. Have you noticed any action, any positive approach to press on the management of the New Ljubljana Bank, supervisors to let investigators into their home? There these persons complained that the agency or Draga Kosa had unlimited access to bank records, the most responsible ones, and those who were legally designated for the investigation of organised crime, including banking, were prevented. I continue to ask what the Government's response was, which is also responsible for SDH and also for DUTB. How was he? Can anyone, the Secretary of State, because there is no Minister's answer, what action has the Government taken against, say, SDH? Has the Prime Minister of the Cerar made a point, suggested a decision, proposed a replacement or a settlement? What did Mr. Klemenčič do as justice minister? What did Mr Dragonja do as Secretary of State for this area? Can someone answer that? State secretaries who are on duty here and sacrificed can answer questions that are unlikely to be answered. What was the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the blockade that took place when Mr. Majhenič, Mr. Furlan, said that they could not reach the documentation in the New Ljubljana Bank to prevent them? You're talking about what will be the fight against the bank hole and crime, the crime in the banking system. Nothing. Even at such a strong warning to the public that he cannot reach the bank records, the government has done absolutely nothing. But she found 5 billion for half-salary, and she'll probably have five more for the other half that's left, and for those recoverys that happened before. The Government of Mira Cerar, with this ministerial team and coalition in the National Assembly, does not demonstrate any necessary and sufficient activities to solve and determine the responsibility of those who caused the bank hole, criminal acts. No activity. Even well-intentioned conclusions, which would move the matter forward for a few millimeters, which we have proposed, have been rejected. Not for the first time, even in all previous discussions on the bank hole, the same has happened. In all changes to the laws related to the banking system, the same has happened. What can be expected of people who exercise authority in the executive branch and do nothing about such obvious matters and blockades that have arisen? They don't replace anyone. They're not proposing to replace anyone and they're telling us here how they're fighting for a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u105	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, followed by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Initially, I must admit, given that I do not have the time to fully disagree with the respectable man who was just before me, because otherwise I will say or pawn. Your Honor! It is only in the last year that we are discussing in the individual Parliamentary Committee of the National Assembly how the German and Austrian legislation – I am talking about banking – provides in its basic law what are the signs of a crime with a definition and precisely in such cases are the law of persecution, namely Mr Majhenič and Mr Furlan, that there are many difficulties in defining the crime. I ask you as long-standing Members and members of the National Assembly. Why isn't this stuff settled in the banking law? Let me finish this part. When we discussed the adoption of the new banking law six months ago, both your parliamentary group and our many laws had the biggest problem of licensing members of the supervisory boards. This is said to be more than just one way to see that certain matters are not settled because the government is not working anyway. Here are the circumstances that go beyond. For this reason, I have also said in my presentation earlier that I am pleased that, on the basis of today's debate, there are so many experts of the banking system in this House that we will indeed allow any closure or opening of these legal voids, which have now proved to be the largest bar for persecution. I owe you one more thing. When I was talking about what's called "hole legislation," you were a little bit stingy. Legal voids. This debate was based on Mr Kozina's statements, which I believe or consider to be an excellent expert on banking crime. I think that Dr. Gorenak recalls that in February 2015, all the representatives of these law enforcement bodies that we have already appointed asked for – because they had already said that the problem of procedural nature for faster efficiency of the work of law enforcement authorities – that they should deliver initiatives and proposals to the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible to amend both material and procedural laws. When we met again on the Justice Committee a good week ago, I think we were critical of what happened in 1 year with the representatives of the biggest opposition party. This is also said to be the case with law enforcement authorities, those who know the most about what is necessary. And what am I supposed to do as an MP or as a member of the largest positioning party? The fact is that it is called for, and because of the introductory words, I have said that I am pleased with this kind of debate, because obviously this is also the way that we will be able to move the matter forward with some common strength. One more thing, because it was said what the Mira Cerar government did and similarly did, I am now talking about banking crime. Someone used to refer to Mr. Kozina in the debate. I'm just saying – I didn't say anything about any government, it's just my principled opinion – that within 23 years of independence, there was legislation like that, so I don't think it's right to expect half the revolutionary change and elimination of all legal voids in a good year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u107	The closing statement, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u108	I'm guessing the government hasn't checked in again. I don't know why we have secretary of state here. To listen or something? Otherwise, I am very pleased to see Mrs Kustec, whom I very rarely see, probably has more difficult tasks, more staffing. But I wanted to say that the vast majority of the coalition agrees with what we wrote, and agrees that simply in the area of the bank hole is insufficiently done. I didn't have one of my performances today that would go in the direction of disputing the individual performers, is true for most of the coalition. Okay, Joint Left, but you're not answering the stupidity, that's true. But it is problematic to see who is ordering your Members not to support their conclusions. Isn't that interesting? They agree with everything, but they vote against it. Numbers, Mr. Prickl. A billion 600 million, rounded up at the NIS Maribor, the difference between what we'd get then and what we'd now gotten and put in. If we sold this bank in 2006, Mr Erjavec could say that every "retirementist" would get 2 000 666 euros. Every "retirementist." Now he boasts that he's made every "retirementist" of 2 euros. And those pensioners believe he's working for them. Good manpower. However, if we privatized the entire banking sector, all state-owned banks, which was a lot of talk in that government, we always had Mr Erjavac's red card, and any "retirementist" could get EUR 8 000 333. Isn't that interesting? 8 000 333 euros. But if we say they have one big pension and one small pension, then the poorest "retirementist" with 400 Euros could buy one medium-class car because he'd get 16 Euros if we round it up. I have to say it. I know it bothers you, I know it hurts you, I know you have a bad heart, because right now you're buying votes with 2 euros. However, I must tell you that with the policy pursued by your President, it is bad, because "retirementists" could have much more if they did not listen to him. But what's the point? The point is, we all agree together. I don't know if I'm going to propose to my Group that we repeat this meeting. What's this all about? It is that we all agree in order and the coalition votes against the decisions. So in 40 seconds this session will be over, the chairman will say "Good night, I welcome you" and we will not vote on anything. Why? Due to the fact that the coalition was on the parent working body against proposals of conclusions that are of a reasonable nature – the government first analyses the situation, the government should prepare a plan to be a little bit like Iceland, where 80% of those, Mrs Kustečeva, who made the bank hole, are already in prison. We don't have another court hearing. That was our goal, and you stopped it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-29-SDZ7-Izredna-34.ana.u109	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I'm closing this agenda item. Before concluding the meeting, I invite you to attend the 16th All-Slovenian meeting with the title Celebrate with the Slovenian homeland, which will be tomorrow, Thursday, 30th. 6. 2016, at 9 a.m. in the Great Hall. I would also like you to clean up any material and other items after the adjournment of the sitting. I hereby conclude the 34th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform the members and members of the Committee on the Economy that the first continuation of the 19th meeting of the Committee will begin in 10 minutes in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. I wish everyone a good night. Goodbye.
