ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Iva Dimic from 11.30 a.m. to 14 p.m., Lyudmila Novak from 12 to 16 p.m., Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer until 3 p.m., Marjan Dolinšek, Franc Laj, Jan Mahnic, mag. Matthew Tonin from 11 a.m. to 20.m., Jernej Vrtovac from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m., Joseph Horvat from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. and Branko Zorman from 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 28. PERIOD OF THE DAY — INTERPEAL ON THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR WORK, THE FAMILY, SOCIAL CASES AND THE SAME OPTIONS OF DR. The Interpellation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. When considering this item on the agenda of a Member and a Member, given that a specific procedure relating to minors is exposed to interpretation, I would like to point out that in your deliberations you respect so internationally, constitutionally and legally guaranteed the right to privacy, to the protection of personal data, especially the protection of minors. Once again, I ask for special care, not only for the sake of minors, but also because the procedures are still open. We are also liable, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as a state authority, for the damage that may result from our unlawful conduct. Data from ongoing procedures, or those relating to individuals, are more protected than all State secrets in relation to the National Assembly and Members because Members have the right to look into and act with due diligence. In the latter cases, i.e. in cases where procedures are under way and when it comes to individuals, none of the Members have access to their functions or their rights. If the debate goes beyond these limits, which I have stated in advance, I will immediately intervene in it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko, to explain the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial team, welcome! On 12 April, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we submitted an interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anje Kopač Dark due to numerous irregularities in the case of the removal of Korean boys to old parents. We would expect that, because of many irregularities and in place of the facts discovered, the Minister would withdraw herself or offer her resignation at least today. We made a final decision on the interpretation in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party after the press conference of the Minister on 6. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the press conference, the Minister overstepped her powers and her actions by explaining a particular case there at all. More than apparently, she wanted to directly influence public opinion, as well as cover up the irregularities that had occurred in the exposed case of the withdrawal of the Korean boys. With her presence, she tried to convince the general public that the decision of the Social Inspection was correct and that she personally supported such a decision. We believe that she was aware of the irregularities at the time, since before the press conference, she was informed by the old parents' lawyer. In her performance, she merely wanted to reassure the public and to place irregularities under the carpet. The reasons given in the submitted interpretation more than two months ago in view of the events that took place after the submission and to date, our correct decision is backed up by a number of facts and arguments which show that when two Korean boys were taken away from their parents, there were a number of irregularities under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In the event that a policy covers such decisions as the Minister has done, interpellation is the only means the opposition has at its disposal to draw attention to the political defence of professional errors. This is not an abuse of the case of the Korean boys, as has been reported by coalition representatives in response to the interpolation, but a warning of the abuse of political function in the event of a cover-up of professional errors. We have filed an intervention against the Minister for liability in disproportionate interference with human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. These are: the protection of children and families and the creation of the necessary conditions under Article 53, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, the special protection and care of children under Article 56 of the Constitution, the right to the personal dignity of children and their old parents under Article 34 of the Constitution, the right to private life of children and old parents under Article 35 of the Constitution, and the suspension of the obligation to act within the framework of political and official powers to guarantee these human rights in the custody of old parents by the Centre for Social Work of Velenje. For reasons of responsibility and abandonment of the duty to act as competent minister, it is incumbent on it to ensure that the State authorities and the holders of public functions take care of the child's benefit in all proceedings concerning the child. In view of the responsibility and involvement in the politicisation of the work of the Centre for Social Work in the case of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec and the responsibility for the consequences of the cover-up of the mistakes of this same designated centre, which was responsible for deciding on the role of parental care, for its responsibility in the non-preparation legislation protecting the rights of children, because of the actions and positions of the Minister, which result in the loss of confidence in the institutions of the social state. Let us see how the procedures involving the Korean boys have been followed, but it is not too much to point out that the elderly parents still have no contact with their grandchildren, despite the assurance of the competent authorities that this needs to be regulated. The parents took care of their grandson after their daughter’s partner murdered their daughter, the mother of two boys. The children were in their care for 3 months, until the Velenje Social Work Center took the grandson away and assigned them to the foster care of an unknown family. The withdrawal was extremely inappropriate in the way that the children were taken out of kindergarten without the knowledge of their parents. Such a way could only be used if health or life were at risk. It was an obvious disproportionate intervention in the execution of the decision of the Velenje Social Work Centre, which intervened in relations between grandchildren and old parents in the way that this pain was for both the child and the old parents. Although the old parents took care of the children for 3 months, the Centre for Social Work of Velenje has not granted custody, custody has been granted to the so-called neutral person by the Velenje Centre for Social Work, which is extremely unusual, since under article 182 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the guardian is generally referred to as a relative, unless this is contrary to the interests of the guardian. Since you have been with your parents for three months, this certainly has not been contrary to the benefit of these two children. At the local social work centre Slovenj Gradec, the old mother applied for foster care. Since this is an administrative procedure, the Ministry should decide on the application by a decision. In a specific case, the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec did not submit an application to the Ministry and the Ministry did not decide on it within the legal time limit, that is, in the 1960s. The nursing process for old parents has not yet been legally completed when Velenje’s Social Work Centre has already decided and allocated the child to other foster parents, which means that the procedure for the appointment of other foster parents has also been carried out extremely quickly, voluntarily and also illegally, and does not take into account whether the old mother will be entitled to foster care or not. In this situation, the minister knew that she had been exposed to the media, warned by both her old mother and her lawyer. Such an irregularity should also be identified by a social inspection which has carried out an extraordinary inspection at the initiative of the Minister. But she didn't find this irregularity. The decision by the Ministry was issued only on 11 April 2016, i.e. over a legal deadline of 27 March 2016 and after the children had already been assigned to an unknown foster family. What are the reasons why the representatives of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje decided that accommodation in an unknown foster family would be the greatest benefit for the child, so far the representatives of the Ministry have not been able to explain to the public the closed session of the Commission for Petitions. Velenje’s Social Work Center decided that it is not in the child’s best interests to care for his grandson’s elderly parents, but it is in the best interest of the children to care for an unknown foster family. In his assessment of appropriateness for foster care, the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, stated the positive reasons for the relationship between parents and grandchildren, and eventually concluded with only one sentence that they were not the most suitable. The Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, was also the only competent centre for social work that can give reasons for the fostering of old parents, but did not establish the reasons for the inadequacy of fostering. The reasons why older parents are not suitable foster parents are still unknown. For the whole process, Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was completely ignored, according to which a family, as a specially protected living community, is also considered to be a community of old parents and grandchildren if for certain reasons the parent-child relationship is present between them. This was also found at the end of May by the Administrative Court, which ruled that the withdrawal of the Korean boys was contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which speaks of the right to family and private life, and also in contravention of Article 53 of the Constitution which speaks of the right to family. It has decided that the relationship between old parents and grandchildren is protected as a family life, which is also based on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The position that the Minister has been politically defending all the time stems from the wrong conclusion that it does not recognise the status of the family community as recognised by the European Convention on Human Rights and the practice of the European Court of Justice in such cases. An intervention into the family community by the State could only take place due to the risk of children, and this condition was not met in this case. It is also not known to date why Velenje’s Centre for Social Work did not immediately initiate a procedure to take away the parental rights of the child’s father, the murderer of their mother, who cannot exercise parental rights because he is in custody. The Centre for Social Work of Velenje even treated the father as a party to the procedure when it was decided to assign the children to the foster family, as agreed by the father. The Centre for Social Work of Velenje was obliged to do everything necessary to protect the rights and benefits of children and, pursuant to Article 64 of the Unfair Procedure Act, to immediately propose a procedure for the removal of parental rights to the father instead of treating him as a party to the proceedings. The Minister was most likely to require extraordinary supervision of the Social Inspectorate due to pressure from the public. However, the findings of the monitoring were presented at the already mentioned press conference on 6 April 2016. It was concluded that decisions were legal and that there were no irregularities in the functioning of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje. The press conference also mentioned the reason for the abduction of children to old parents, namely that the elderly parents no longer cooperated with the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, and it was not specifically explained what this non-cooperation would mean. The decision to withdraw grandchildren was, in the opinion of the participants in the press conference, professional and for the greatest benefit of the children. The withdrawal of children is to be decided by a professional and professional decision cannot be misjudged or doubted. We cannot agree with such an explanation, especially if it turns out that the policy is the one that justifies the so-called professional decision and not the actual arguments. At the press conference, the minister also said that she could otherwise understand the emotional response of the public, but that she sometimes judges too lightly and with too little data. According to the Court of Justice’s judgment, the Minister’s judgment was too light at the time, but she should not have had too little data. The decision of the Social Inspectorate and the Centre for Social Work of Velenje defended it, despite the fact that she already knew that the social inspection had not listened to the old parents and thus checked whether the situation cited at Velenje’s Social Work Centre was in fact true. In this way, the social inspection could not determine the actual situation and, consequently, the expertise and legality of the part of the centre, as it could not be certain of the reality of the documentation submitted by the Centre. On 8 April 2016, the Ombudsman, together with her deputy, presented the results of her supervision of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje at the press conference. Nor did she find the irregularity and this control was carried out solely on the basis of the report of the Velenje Centre for Social Work. She also failed to communicate with her parents, and she was unable to assess the actual situation. Even though the guardian did not detect an irregularity, she nevertheless highlighted some shortcomings. The first is that the right to parental care has not been legally decided and that a decision should therefore be taken. The second is that the father should be deprived of his parental right or that the Centre for Social Work of Velenje should at least begin the procedure for the confiscation of parental rights. Also, according to the Ombudsman, the child should not be taken directly from kindergarten to a foster family, as the centre could make its decision in a more appropriate way for the child. The Administrative Court found that the abduction of children was illegal for old parents. The application for foster care was lodged on 13 January 2016 by the old mother, the administrative procedure was introduced on 27 January 2016 when the application was completed. Since this is an administrative procedure in which the competent decision-making authority of the Ministry is responsible, the Centre for Social Work of Slovenia Gradec should withdraw the role of grandma in the resolution of the Ministry. The application should be decided within two months at the latest. The Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, did not submit his role to the Ministry until 11 April 2016, at the invitation of the Ministry. On the same day, the Minister issued a rejection decision to her grandmother, but too late, the deadline for this was 27 April 2016. They also forgot at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec that it was necessary to print a press on it when the application was submitted, which is of course a basic act and it is really difficult to understand that something like this could have happened. It is even more difficult to understand that this has happened twice, even when the application has been completed. In addition to all of this, the Administrative Court at first instance found that there had been a violation of human rights when the child was taken. The Court has indeed taken the view that the child should remain with the foster parents, but only because the continuous transfer of the child may be harmful. Infringements, according to the Administrative Court, were: there was an intervention in the family community of old parents and grandchildren, as recognised in Article 30 of the Constitution of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights; the second offence was the denial of legal remedies for old parents when they were taken into custody and handed over to their parents, since the removal of children or an intervention into the family community was not adopted by an appropriate act where the old parents would be a party and they would be allowed a legal remedy. It also addressed the right to a legal remedy of old parents under Article 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Yesterday we were also able to witness additional manipulations of the Ministry regarding the Supreme Court's decision. The Supreme Court only ruled on the provisional order, which was rejected at the first stage, to immediately transfer the children back to their parents. However, the findings on human rights violations remained the same as in the first instance judgment until the final decision. The Director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, resigned following objective responsibility according to the findings of the administrative inspection. I'm sorry, it's too late. However, it confirmed that there had been errors that the Minister had advocated at the press conference at the very beginning. However, the Minister did not feel responsible, although she personally engaged in the appointment of the Director and then the representatives of the Ministry of Social Work Council of the Centre for Social Work overturned the opinion of employees who insisted that Yuri Šumečnik did not meet the conditions for a leading social worker, as he had no required work experience in the field of social protection. Despite the facts, after the recommitment and with sufficient political majority in the Council of the Institute, he received support and became Director. That's when politics hit the top. Such political decisions resulted in the unlawful conduct of the Director. That is why the Minister should also be responsible for irregularities at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, and of course there is no negligible fact that this political director appointed was a prominent member of the SD and even the head of the Koro region before appointment. Our statements on the irregularity of procedures in deciding on the application for foster care on the website of the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec have thus been confirmed in the meantime from the submission of the interpretation to today. Human rights have been violated in the process. The procedure was illegal. Illegal decision-making on parental rights is an irregularity that has affected the withdrawal of children from the care of old parents, as the procedure has not been legally completed. The right to foster care is an essential prerequisite for deciding whether or not a grandchild is taken to another foster family and given no parental care. That's not what social inspection found out. Although this is an obvious violation, the minister did not respond. In relation to the decision-making process concerning fostering, Deputy Ombudsman pointed out that only after their supervision had the long-standing practice of the Centres for Social Work, which in such cases had never been decided by a decision, been changed. Which means that exposed irregularities have occurred in the past. With regard to the responsibility of the Minister for the Non-Preparation of Legislation to protect children's rights, it should be pointed out that the Family Code, which fell at the 2012 referendum, was prepared for adoption at the time of the Government 2004-2008. It lays down provisions to protect the rights of children and all other participants in foster care, parental rights and decision-making. Instead of the original solution, the Ministry of Labour, the Minister of Labour Dr. Svetlik prepared a code with additional ideological solutions, which, of course, led to the fall of the Family Code at the referendum. Decisions relating to decision-making before the courts in order to protect children's rights were necessary for the implementation of Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides that in all proceedings all affected parties have the opportunity to participate and express their views, that is to say, including old parents. Notwithstanding the outcome of the referendum, the one-year period for a moratorium on the same decisions that were rejected expired on 24 April 2013. Minister Anja Kopač Mrak is head of the Ministry of Labour since 20 March 2013. During all this time in the field of family law, no solution has been proposed by the Ministry, which would determine the jurisdiction of the courts in the fostering or adoption proceedings and thus enable all affected parties to participate in the proceedings conducted by the courts. A similar proposal was put to the public hearing only 31. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of So after more than three years of her ministry. If we look at what non-admission of inadequate legislation in the case of the Korean boys means, we can see that the elderly parents could not have been involved as parties to the proceedings, nor could the court decide on the basis of all the circumstances, and the old parents would have the possibility of a legal remedy. The Minister is responsible for failing to draw up appropriate legislation to protect children's rights and implement decisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Last but not least, she's Minister of TV Slovenia 1 28. 5. 2016 herself said that she did not see her responsibilities for the work of the Centre for Social Work, but she saw some of her responsibilities for family legislation. The Minister's responsibility is clearly defined in the Law on State Administration and also in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 114 of the Constitution, each Minister shall be responsible for the work of his Ministry. On the basis of Article 16 of the Law on State Administration, the Minister shall lead and represent the Ministry and issue regulations and other acts in accordance with the law and take other decisions under the authority of the Ministry. In relation to an authority in the composition of a ministry, such as a social inspection under the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister shall, under article 23 of the Law on State Administration, give guidance and instructions and instructions to the Authority, within the limits of its competence, to carry out certain measures and report to it. In this regard, the Minister may request reports, data and other documents relating to the work of the body in the composition. There have been many irregularities in the seizure of grandchildren. The way children were taken away from their parents was controversial, since the life or health of the children was not compromised and the withdrawal was therefore disproportionate to the benefit of the children. The mother’s killer, their father’s father, was not deprived of parental rights; instead, he even cooperated as a party to the proceedings. The Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec unlawfully dealt with the role of parental care because it did not send it to the competent ministry. The Centre for Social Work of Velenje did not have valid reasons for not assigning a child to an old parent. Lack of cooperation by old parents cannot be a valid reason; only the benefit of children should be decisive. The child has not been given a guardian who should normally be a relative of the child, unless this would be contrary to the benefit of both children, which was not the case in question. Social inspection was carried out only on the basis of the report of Velenje’s Social Work Centre, without talking to the other side, in this case old parents. These irregularities have led to disproportionate interference with the constitutionally protected human rights of grandchildren as well as old parents. It touched on the personal dignity of children and their old parents, as well as on the right to a private life of children and old parents. In accordance with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, a wider family is also protected as a family, especially when it comes to established family relations between children and other relatives, such as old parents. This was also confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Manuello and Nevi v Italy. Minister Anja Kopač Mrak in relation to these irregularities and human rights interventions is not only objectively responsible, but also subjectively. The social inspection of the Republic of Slovenia is a body in the composition of the Ministry, which is independent in its work, but under the Law on State Administration, it is incumbent on the Minister's instructions, which also has the right to have an overview of the entire inspection documentation. The results of the monitoring, which did not find any irregularity, were supported, although it was clear from the outset that the Social Inspectorate did not establish the actual situation in a particular case, since it did not hear the old parents and thus did not allow the principle of the contradiction of the procedures and was based solely on unilaterally indicated indications in the documents of the Velenje Centre for Social Work. She was informed about the irregularities by her old parents' lawyer before the press conference. Instead of requiring a further examination of the case under Article 23 of the Law on State Administration, it has not yet been identified on these irregularities of the Social Inspectorate. In accordance with Article 274 of the Administrative Procedure Act, the Minister, as an appellant, has a decision against the decisions of the Centre for Social Work to abolish or repeal decisions under supervisory law if the decision has clearly violated the substantive provision, as it did in a specific case where the decision of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje failed to take into account that the right of old parents to care through the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec has not yet been definitively decided in accordance with the law. Instead of examining the possibilities it has under supervisory law, the Minister followed the findings of the Social Inspection uncritically and took the view that there was no irregularity. By her actions and actions, the Minister is also responsible for the resulting loss of confidence in the institution of the social state. The management of the social work centre was incorrect in the case of the abduction of the Korean boys, and there was disproportionate interference with the family community. Similar examples have occurred in the past. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia point to the many irregularities that occur at social work centres, in nursing homes, in shelters for the homeless and so on. The public expects the minister to remove the irregularities. By protecting the conduct of its subordinates and more than clearly politically covering professional and procedural errors that are taking place at the expense of citizens and citizens, resulting in a loss of confidence in the institution of the social state. The Minister had to interview all the coalition's parliamentary groups, and she was also interviewed by Prime Minister Mir Cerar. He noted that he could not be held guilty or subjectively responsible for the illegalities or irregularities identified by the Administrative Court, as it was not directly involved in the proceedings, but that he felt that certain aspects of objective responsibility could be found because of the irregularity of the procedures, since the Minister was responsible for the legitimate and effective functioning of the Directorate. Would it not be right for the President of the most ethical and moral government to dismiss the Minister for the sake of this and after the decision of the Administrative Court? If, after the irregularities found, the Minister does not resign on her own, which, of course, would be far more reasonable. Although, following the intervention of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group by coalition types, it was clear that we were taking advantage of the case for political purposes, we were able to convince ourselves exactly the opposite in the meantime. If any, the parties to the coalition are those who are politically buying and measuring each other's strengths and support ministers subject to different requirements. More than obviously for individual parties to the coalition, it is not a number of irregularities that have occurred in the exposed case, but only what can be done by means of the submitted interpolation of the opposition within the coalition. At the time of her appointment, the Minister swore to respect the constitutional order, to follow her conscience and to work with all her power for the welfare of Slovenia. If politics advocates human rights violations, only political means are possible, which in this case is the interpolation of the opposition, since the coalition has no longer been able to make sufficient self-criticism. It is not sufficient for the Minister to resolve those responsible in the case of legal judgments, since in this case she has also actively cooperated with the political functions in terms of the integrated coverage of this case. If the political powers of the Minister are to be used to cover up certain irregularities in the exercise of human rights, as was the case with the old parents, interpretation should be used as a political means to determine responsibility. This is what we did in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is how we propose to the National Assembly that, following the debate held, Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u3	You received the reply of Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anje Kopač Dark to the interpretation by letter dated 12. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I give the floor to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark, to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, dear ministers and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, viewers and viewers, parents and old parents! I am standing before you today because the SDS party demands my resignation because I do not want to discuss and question a particular case in public-cut shows, about a case that is not yet completed where the legal protection of all involved is ensured, as more administrative and judicial proceedings are ongoing because all supervisory institutions have so far assessed whether the Children's Social Work Centre's decision has been followed by the benefit of children. And why I do not wish to discuss – because this could endanger the legality and regularity of these procedures, and this is well known by the proponents. And most importantly, it would violate one of the fundamental rights of minors, that is the right to privacy. Would any of you like to have a public debate about your family, especially that painful work, about the family, which is the most important thing in our lives for all of us? Would you like to read about what's going on behind your four walls? Or how about your underage children when things aren't going well? Not me. Interpellators have much to say about responsibility. Answer yourself: Do you find the public debate about two young children responsible? Do you think it is responsible for the meetings of the working bodies of this congregation to discuss when and where any of the children were conceived? Yeah, we heard that, too. Do you think it's responsible for the media exposure of the case to their entire childhood, and even after you've grown up, with your finger on them and talking, these are the Koroan boys? Do you find public debate and exposure to the pain of grandparents responsible? Do you feel like sending decisions, judgments and documentation on children with names and surnames, birthdays between lawyers, journalists, politicians, responsible? Not to me. I'm being intertwined because I acted in accordance with my jurisdiction. In our country, social work centres are public welfare institutions, which independently, independently run individual cases and procedures and are also responsible for their decisions. I don't know if you can imagine a minister or a minister calling the director of the Social Work Centre and telling him he disagreed with the placement of the children in the foster family and telling him to take the child back. Do you really want to live in a country where ministers, on the basis of a call from a lawyer, a friend, based on pressure from people, would decide arbitrarily, beyond the decisions of the competent institutions? I don't want it myself, not as a citizen, not as a mother of two underage children, not as a daughter, not as Anja Copač Dark. None of us can and must not judge what is going on behind the other four walls, what is going on with the family. Unfortunately, the closest thing to a family is a professional worker who deals with the family and therefore knows it best. That's why we have to let the profession do its job. But it is the leadership of the profession, and it must always be the pursuit of the benefit of children. And, yes, in such highly sensitive cases procedures must also be carried out in a responsible and correct manner. I think about it a lot and stuff. The profession and social inspection claim that the professional decision followed the benefit of the children. That's what experts call me. They also say that children are well, have progressed, and their health has improved. And that's the most important thing. And if I stand here, if I'm on the ground, because I believe that boys are given an opportunity because I believe in professions and institutions such as the Social Inspection, the Ombudsman, and because I act in accordance with my powers and because I believe in the protection of children, then it's worth it. Your Honor! Interpellation is an abuse of the Institute for political purposes due to the case of the placement of two minors in the foster family. Slovenia is the rule of law. I believe this, we must believe this, especially when it comes to protecting the rights of the weak, in this case the youngest who cannot decide their rights, so we must be confident that their interests will be provided by professionally qualified individuals, who must be responsible for their actions. And my role, the role of ministers and ministers before me is that, regardless of political, religious or any other belief, they trust in their expertise. However, if it turns out that they do not manage their work for the weakest and for the protection of their rights, it is necessary to act, but not voluntarily, not on the basis of public pressure, but on the basis of professional justification that a formal procedure is needed. And in Slovenia we have institutions that are called to do so. Slovenia is a rule of law country and we must respect that. The role of Minister is supervisory and systemic. In this case, it was my job to call the supervisory institution, which is within my jurisdiction, that is the Social Inspection, which has not found the irregularity, and therefore there was no reason to question in advance the correctness of their decision. The case shall also be examined by the Administrative Inspectorate in accordance with its powers. An old parent's lawyer has initiated a number of court proceedings. Court of Justice is ensured. The rule of law is in effect. And please, let's wait for the courts to do their job so that the judgments are binding. Let me stress once again, the centres for social work run individual cases and procedures on their own, they are responsible for their decisions, their key leadership is to work in the best interests of children, as well as all other bodies and institutions in our country. Now, in particular, due to the benefit of the children and also respect for my grandfather and grandmother, I am putting an end to the case by public examination. But I am happy to talk about the system and the work of the Ministry. I'm aware that no system is perfect. This is why the reorganisation of social work centres is ongoing. The purpose of the reorganisation is to return the profession of social work where it has always been, to the ground, to people away from the papers and bureaucracy, where there are real problems that need to be helped to solve. Therefore, in the plan, the regional integration of the existing 62 centres for social work in 15 district centres, where greater concentration of knowledge, people and better organisation of work will be ensured, all exposures will remain and things will not change for people in terms of accessibility. Such a reorganisation will enable people throughout Slovenia to have the same quality of service and will enable more field work. Cell phones will be set up. We took the first step towards reorganisation in the government last week. First step towards the implementation of the pilot project, which will start at the end of this summer in Ljubljana. A similar project will then be carried out outside the city environment. The reorganisation will take place gradually in 2017 and 2018. Since this is a major change, we want to make it as responsible as possible and by involving all stakeholders. At the same time, with the reorganisation of social work centres, a new social rights decision-making system is also in preparation. In September 2017, we want to introduce the first informational calculation of annual social rights: children's allowance, lunch subsidies, kindergartens and others that will be automatically obtained by the beneficiaries, using the example of informational income calculations. This will significantly relieve people and also workers at social work centres. But not only will the presence of professional workers in the field be increased, and the adoption of a new family code will improve the existing system. Two weeks ago, we presented a new Family Code and put it into public debate. A week ago, it was the first major professional consultation and they will follow. The proposal is based on the text of the Family Code, which was rejected at the referendum in 2012, as we know, mainly because of the hot debate on the equalisation of same-sex rights. The same-sex rights were decided at the referendum once again, at the end of last year. And because of both the referendums and the procedures related thereto, the possibility of adopting a family code has stalled. Two weeks ago, a renewed attempt was made to collect signatures. Political Movement for Children and Families would like to move ahead of the family code and, among other things, the right of old parents to adopt grandchildren to give priority, even though this is included in the proposed family code. If they are able to collect signatures, the time will be extended again until the adoption of the family code. So another episode, when narrow political interests are once again set against the comprehensive arrangement for protecting the benefit of children. In the family code, the definition of family will be new. The understanding of the family is wider. The family is a living community of a child with one or both parents or with another adult if they care for the child and have obligations and rights to the child. So it is not necessary for a family to be a family of children with both parents, one parent or caregiver is sufficient, and the child is the one who creates the family. Now we will no longer talk about parental rights, but we will talk about parental care, which is a broader word, including non-biological parents, and in addition to rights it also covers the responsibilities and in particular the responsibility of parents for the harmonious development of children. One of the biggest changes in the Family Code is the transfer of decision-making from social work centres to district courts. Social work centres will maintain their advisory role, help families and transfer the decision-making function to the judiciary. Only in emergency seizures, when the child is so threatened that immediate withdrawal is necessary will he decide on the Centre for Social Work. All other cases, abductions, placements, foster care or adoptions, and the court. The proposal for a code is therefore in public debate. I wish that the debate would be professional, non-political, non-ideological and that we would have a family code, some kind of family constitution, which would represent the greatest possible agreement of the whole community. I also want the opposition to cooperate. On this occasion, we would like to reiterate that the Institute of Nursing is only one of the possible forms of care and upbringing for children who are not cared for by parents, and that the basic purpose of fostering is to provide a child who does not have his own family or for various reasons cannot live with parents, instead of family care. Thus, the purpose of fostering is not primarily to provide financial resources to the family, as other rights from public funds are intended to do so. Interpellators also read to me, quote, “action and positions which result in the loss of the trust of the institution of the social state.” In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we follow our best efforts, which requires the Constitution, that Slovenia is a legal and social state, so in all projects we follow the principle of ensuring equal access, equal rights, dialogue, intergenerational solidarity. Ensuring this depends in particular on our attitude towards the fundamental principles of the social state, solidarity, social justice, equality, human dignity and security. And our main guides are: agreement, trust, community, common good. I'll introduce our work below. In Slovenia, two circumstances have coincided in recent years, the long-standing economic stagnation with the social consequences of unemployment and the reduction of the income of citizens and citizens, and the fiscal crisis, which required us to reduce the budget deficit and expenditure. In Slovenia we had high unemployment, we lost a lot of jobs, but in particular we lost confidence in institutions and in the common good. Nevertheless, all our attention has been and is still focused on protecting the weak. Slovenia devotes less resources to social protection than the average of the European Union, but through these means we achieve a very high target and effective impact of social transfers on poverty reduction. In 2014, social transfers, where pensions are not counted as part of transfers, reduced the risk of poverty by 42.2%, while the European average for a fifth is lower and reaches only 35%. According to the World Bank 2015, only four other European Union countries have better results in terms of the volume of allocations that could be higher and their effectiveness in protecting the weakest. Despite the crisis, Slovenia, on an international scale, maintained relatively high social inclusion and accessibility to public services and one of the lowest income inequalities. In this area we belong to a group of countries such as Austria, Denmark, France, Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden. These results are also the fruit of the ministry, which I am leading with a clear vision of the preservation of the social state system. I understand that these statistics are a poor source of comfort for people in distress, so we must work together to resolve their hardships, and that is why we are all responsible. Social policy only allocates created, more and better jobs are the only right answer. In 2016 we abolished part of the austerity measures introduced by the Public Finance Balance Act adopted in 2012 in the area of family and broader social policy. Thus, families belonging to the 5th and 6th grades of the children’s allowance are entitled only to this in full value. Ninety-seven thousand families will receive a higher child support. Three thousand 200 families will be on a newly eligible state scholarship. There's been a change in the amount of lunch subsidies, snacks. The decision-making process has been changed. Despite fiscal constraints, we have provided a total of more than €33 million of additional resources to improve the situation of families. Anyone in distress must be provided with social assistance from the State. However, for an effective social security network, we must all contribute according to our capabilities. The Ministry presented to the debate a White Paper on pensions, which is the basis for a broader social debate on future adjustments to our pension system. The pension scheme concerns all individuals and stakeholders and therefore decisions must be taken on the basis of a discussion of all stakeholders in the system, and in particular on the basis of social dialogue and intergenerational cooperation. Dialogue means that none of the partners can achieve everything. Dialogue means reaching a common agreement that makes all partners winners. Dialogue means a great deal of responsibility and patience for all who sit at the same table to unify themselves on the essential issues of the development of Slovenia as a country and community. Dialogue also means to keep a word on the implementation of the agreed, although at present part of the agreement does not suit us. With such awareness, we signed a social agreement for the period 2015-2016 with the social partners, unions, employers and government in February 2015. It is only a third comprehensive social agreement in Slovenia alone. The latter was signed in October 2007, which means that Slovenia was without a general social agreement throughout the crisis. In November 2015, the agreement fell, showing how weak the dialogue is and that it needs to be strengthened all the time as an important democratic value for society. The mutual trust of people and the trust of people in the country and its fundamental pillars of state-building action must be strengthened. The crisis has greatly changed the situation in the labour market in Slovenia. Since the beginning of 2014, in which the government of Mir Cerar took office, we have recorded a high level of unemployment in Slovenia. In January 2014, less than 130 000 people were reported in the institution, of which 26% were young, aged up to 29 years. I am very glad that the number of unemployed is falling. April reported 105 thousand, May 102, we are now close to 100,000, and let's hope that every month there will be fewer. Data are also encouraged to reduce the proportion of all categories of unemployed persons in the structure of the unemployed at annual level, but most of the proportion of unemployed young people between 15 and 29 years of age. At the end of December 2015, there were slightly less than 27,000 or 17.2% of registered establishments than at the end of 2013, and by May 2016 this number had dropped to 21,000 young people. A package of measures for young people, the so-called Youth Guarantees, has contributed significantly since almost 50,000 young people have been employed in the period 2014-2015. We recorded a 40% increase in employment outputs within 4 months of the application. The European Commission also recognised the Slovenian guarantee as an example of good practice in the cooperation and integration of young people. Also between 2016 and 2020, 15 different measures will be implemented to guarantee young people. 300 million Euros are available. In the structure of the unemployed, the proportion of the long-term unemployed and unemployed over 50 years of age has increased over the last period. Therefore, we are already implementing active employment policy programmes for these vulnerable groups in 2016. We have increased money for public works and passed legislation to facilitate the employment of the elderly. We are preparing a document of the Senior in the labour market. This year, EUR 100 million is earmarked for an active employment policy programme. The debate is about decent work and how to reduce the chastity in our labour market. And speaking of the achievements of the ministries, of course you doubt, but the results tell their story. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities had at its disposal €404 million in the previous financial perspective. Of this, we have spent 398 million on the implementation of the employment policy, which is the best result in the country. We've spent 98.5% of our resources. We carried out 214 programmes involving 312 000 703 people. Another example is that the European Commission recognises us as examples of good practice. Our aid fund to the most vulnerable, which is available by 2020 20,5 million and provides 2 thirds of all the food distributed by the Red Cross and Karitas, is provided through this fund. The accompanying measures we have introduced, the Red Cross and Karitas offer support to more than 32 000 people. The Ministry's policy follows the principle that on the one hand it is necessary to ensure an appropriate level of aid and, on the other hand, to ensure quality employment and, in particular, to promote activity against inactivity. Therefore, in the future, we will play an even greater role in the active forms of incentives ahead of passive remuneration. The program of social activation is the right answer, and the Government has already accepted this. Respected and respected, trust in the institutions of the social state in its conduct is not undermined by me, but by the desire to meddle politically in the professional work of the institutions, which is the main content of this interpretation, is being undermined in a grave way by the signatories of the interpretation themselves. Ideological elements have never represented the leadership of my work, not in the role of State Secretary or in the role of Minister. But I'm like all of us here, a politician with my own value system and my own vision. I am proud to say that I am a Social Democrat, and therefore I am convinced that it is the duty of the State to ensure equal treatment, equal social and economic rights and legal security for all, that is to say, all children, regardless of the type of family they live in. It is in family law and must remain the key guide for the greatest benefit of the child identified in concrete legal and judicial proceedings. The Signatories of Interpellation give me responsibility for disproportionate interference in human rights, the protection of the children of the family, the right to the personal life of children. For reasons of misunderstanding or for the purpose of my personal discreditation, you have completely confused the tasks and competences of the individual authorities and called on me to interfere with the procedure beyond the powers, which you might even understand as inciting the commission of criminal offences. Most of the events listed in the interpolation took place before the Ministry received any information on the case. The applicants give me the responsibility to proceed with a social work centre that I could not even be informed of. In a specific case, also with regard to procedures in the General Administrative Procedure Act, the clear competence of administrative authorities and professional workers is clear. The responsibility of the Minister or Minister of Labour should be understood within the framework of the law, namely the provision of political guidance, the supervision of work, the implementation of regulations and other acts within the competence of the Ministry and other tasks laid down by the rules. In doing so, it should be clarified that decision-making of social work centres is a matter for the exercise of the principle of independence of the administration under the Constitution and the law, as provided for in Article 120(2) of the Constitution, which in particular constitutes a specificisation of the principle of separation of power and ensures the independence and independence of the administration in the performance of its functions in relation to other branches of government, of course within the framework of the system of barriers and balances. The independence of decision-making in legal proceedings is further defined as a fundamental principle of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Institute of Interpellations is therefore politically responsible for the work of a minister or minister, his or her source or his or her subordinates, to whom he or she has an influence, but not in terms of a specific service, measure or decision ordered, which would constitute an abuse of the official position. If it turns out that any director has not acted to protect the rights and benefits of children, I will act in accordance with my competence under the Social Protection Act, which is precisely referred to in Article 56. Interpellation due to the case of the placement of two boys in a foster family is an abuse of the Institute for political purposes, and it is certainly not for the benefit of these two minor children, nor for the benefit of old parents. I fully reject the observations referred to in the interpretation and propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposed decision on my discharge be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u5	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I expected you, as president of the National Assembly, to react after the performance of the Minister. The questions raised in the interpretation are answered by the Minister, not by the ones we have prepared the interpretation. With rhetorical questions, it is an abuse of the interpolation institute to refer to the signatories to the interpolation instead of answering. The second thing is, it is evident from the Minister's performance that he does not separate the basic concepts of parliamentary democracy. We are not listening to the Minister's hearing or public presentation of opinions on future policies in the field of social work, family and other matters, but we are talking about the Minister's response to clear crimes or infringements in proceedings. The adoption, Mr President, while the two courts have decided, says administrative and supremely, that human rights have been violated in the proceedings, that it has been illegal matters, that it has been done in all of the beginning wrong in the seizure, not to say in the administrative kidnapping of children from kindergarten, something is very wrong for the Minister to then move and bluff here before the Slovenian public. I suggest you give her another 30 minutes to respond to the readings at those five points at the interpolation. When we discuss the work programme of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we will discuss this. We have recently had a agenda item on the Committee, a lack of implementation of the ministerial decisions that the Minister co-formed with the coalition, there was an opportunity to discuss what and how we could do this. Today, at the interpellation, Mr President of the National Assembly, we are talking about specific matters that are mentioned in the obvious and in the explanations. And if one professor with a PhD in the field he covers doesn't know what interpretation is and what the program is, then something's really wrong. How, then, can he explain to us here the administrative procedures, the fact that all the procedures have been carried out properly? Don't hold it. There are two judicial decisions where it has been clearly found that there has been a violation of human rights, that illegal conduct has occurred and so on. I suggest you give the Minister an additional 30 minutes to explain the readings from the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u7	I will not accept your proposal, but I expect you to distinguish between procedural and debate. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, yes, that's all I said, followed by a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u8	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, but now the President has been so long that we may only agree that the procedural proposal also has an explanation for the fact that it consists of two parts. And I said the reasons why I suggest that the Minister get an extra 30 minutes to respond to the perceptions from the interpretation, because we heard about the programme that was supposed to happen once, we don't know how long this government is going to last, but I told you and I suggest that you do it because there was absolutely nothing answered about the response to the interpretation. Nothing at all. And you, as President, are obliged to make sure that the work of the National Assembly takes place normally, that we get answers to the questions raised, that we are talking about the agenda item, if not otherwise, Mr President, and so on. You may have found out for yourself if not, but we will tell you in which part of three quarters or 80% of this Minister's speech was not on the agenda. I'm sure you're aware of the point of my procedural proposal I made earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u9	First of all, how much time does one discusser have was decided at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Secondly, the item is called Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak. Everything that has taken place so far within this point has been in accordance with the title of this point. Thirdly, it is not procedurally intended to discuss with the President, it is procedurally dedicated to new procedural proposals and not to repeat them all the time. The New Slovenia Group has the floor [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] What about the procedure again? [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, who was the first one? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, we'll listen to all three of them, and then I'll decide. Mr. Han has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Han first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u10	Well, I respect the president. President, thank you so much for your word. I wore a red tie today, and that means something. I hope, President, that, as you have started this meeting, you will also continue to lead, in accordance with the rules of procedure and in accordance with what is happening today. Mr Jože Tanko experienced another shock after the half-debate of the Minister, and I believe from this title that he did not recover from talking about procedural proposals, which of course do not have anything to do with the procedure that we are going to be going to the National Assembly. Only one thing I would say to Jozet Tank and his signatories: If it were normal in this country, there should be no such interpretation at all in this tragedy in the National Assembly. However, social policy could be interpolated, but today the Minister has made clear to you what social policy we have in this country. And thank God we have a social democrat in this ministry! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u11	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u12	Dear President! The Head of the SDS Group introduces a new parliamentary practice that, as soon as the presentations are concluded, they will nominate their procedural proposals which are not. In particular, as regards the procedure proposed by him, the President would suggest that, as far as the procedural parties of his colleague Tanka are concerned, who very much likes to mutilate and recruits and invents new and new receptions, so that he can come to the floor and at the same time carry out the discussion, you ask him on the basis of which article in the Rules proposes a solution to the extension of 30 minutes of the presentation, on the basis of which the Rule in the Rules of Procedure assessed that the presentation of the interpretation or presentation of the readings addressed to the Minister and in the procedure of interpretation is something most normal to present his view. What is most interesting is that in the middle, when we have not heard all the presentations at all, Comrade Tanko nonstop comments on all the presentations and he is the only one who is able to do so in this House. Just let him say what article in the Rules of Procedure makes it possible for him to do all of this. But as for teaching, given that he has already given, I'll say, these distasteful revelations, who's been in Parliament for how long and could have known something. You have long been a colleague of Tanko's in Parliament to know that the abuse of the Institute of Procedural Affairs or the proposal is one of the lowest – when you run out of arguments, you simply start disqualification. Therefore, please, President, let's give because we have 13 hours at our disposal, you'll be doing a massacre for 13 hours, and we'll have an assassination on the hearing organs, and it's time for us to at least talk within these 13 hours without your inscrutable inserts that are impolite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u13	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, the title of the agenda item is the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because of and there is an exclusive reference – the interpretation relates to the past work of the Minister and not to the future. We have written here, “because of liability in disproportionate interference with human rights secured by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which are” and so on and so forth. That's the subject of interpolation today. Mr Han said that the Minister did not speak in accordance with the agenda item. If you listened to his procedural proposal, he said himself that she did not speak in accordance with the agenda item. The subject of interpolation is what you got on the table. An integral part of the interpolation is the written response of the Minister, who is also written more than the programme and not as an answer to what is supposed to be what we expected and so on. I therefore proposed that the Minister should be given the opportunity to further explain the findings of the interpretation in accordance with all five items of the agenda or five points of the reasons for what we have written. We need those answers. When we discuss programmes, plans, other matters, we will discuss this and then you will form it as a agenda item. Thank you, Mr Han, for confirming what I have found in my procedural proposal first. But I suggest, Mr President, that you do something to make sure that we get answers to the impressions from the interpretation and not to what is the government's work programme, which is probably not going to come true.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u15	I note that we have 13 hours for the entire interpretation and for the substantive debate, and that 13 hours are also intended for whether or not you are satisfied with the reply and the answers that have been given, so there is no need to use procedural ones for the debate. I'm asking you to hold on to this right now. It is true for everyone, let us first hear the next part, these are the positions of the groups of Members, then the general debate will come, which I will point out once again, just in case, what those restrictions are. All the debates that have been held so far, I think it has been within these limits, so I have not intervened. However, I certainly do not intend to interfere with what someone is saying, in terms of whether anyone else is satisfied with his position. But I do not really know this understanding of democracy, or if no one is satisfied and demands that the other answer as he wants – it is out of the question! Everyone's responsible for what it is. The Rules of Procedure govern the debate between us, and that will be the case. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! The intervention of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has not yet taken place in the 25-year history of our independent country. Today we are witnessing the historic interpretation of the Minister, who should take care of and care for the social security of citizens and citizens, to ensure respect for human dignity, the elderly, the families, children, in short, the most vulnerable groups and layers of society. It's a ministry that follows a man from birth to death. Why is today's intervention of the Minister, but if citizens and citizens are told by the media on a daily basis that, from the point of view of social and assistance to the weak, everything is sufficiently taken care of? Are we really a social state? Does everyone have a decent life for a man? Does everyone have social security and justice? Did we really want such social states? Today's interpellations have highlighted a specific problem for the discharge of the Minister, based only on a specific topic that we all already know from the media, which may not be appropriate. On the basis of the information available to the public, however, I can say that the case has thoroughly shaken each individual and the general public. We can reasonably assume that this case has occurred because the Minister has so far not prepared appropriate legal grounds to transfer the decision-making powers of placement of children into the foster family from the social work centres to the jurisdiction of the courts. In this way, decisions would be more weighed, the participation of relevant experts, including experts, would be ensured, and in particular the possibility of legal remedies against court decisions would be considered. Children's benefits should be protected by the Ombudsman in every procedure relating to children's rights, especially in such sensitive matters as housing in a foster family. Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask whether in a particular case the guardian of children's rights has been placed on children. If not, who, in particular, represented the rights of both children. However, if the Christian Democrats were to intercede with Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, there would be evidence of her unprofessional, biased, irresponsible, untimely and harmful work on 20 pages for citizens and citizens. Let me get started. First of all, the most pressing problem in our country, which the Minister cannot and does not want to solve, is poverty. The rate of poverty has risen. Almost half of the pensioners who receive pensions under the poverty line were poor. Among them, people, citizens and citizens who have worked for 40 years or more have left their health in businesses and now live below the poverty threshold and with 300 euros in pensions. These people have given up a protective supplement that they would urgently need because they do not want to burden their heirs and risk taking away fields or gardens where they can at least produce something and alleviate their social distress. In this way, they also make sure that the countryside does not grow. The government has taken care of the protection allowance as a repayable debt to the State, where the Secretary of State was the current Minister and Desus in Government. There is an increasing proportion of workers who receive minimum wages among the poor. So we have poor employees. It will not be a day before the media reports on the abuse of employers who play the system in order to keep the workers out of income for months, even though they have done their job. Labour inspection reports that there are no levers to act in the worst cases of abuse, that it is humanely fed and similar. Where are the measures, Madam Minister? The social position of the Slovenians is deteriorating. Poverty is getting longer and deeper. Legal action in this area, Minister, has not been carried out. Debt write-offs, which you have been promoting in the media, have produced virtually no results, and this is one of the fundamental stones of your inefficient social policy. Following the results of the SURS for 2014, 22% of households have difficulty spending a month. However, it is very difficult in 13%, which is 3 percentage points more than in 2013. However, in the case of poverty, special attention should be paid and attention should be paid to the aspect of longer-term poverty. Statistics show that people who fall on the social threat scale can no longer rise and escape from long - term poverty. The return path is also hampered due to poor social and employment policies. This is one of the biggest problems of our society and in this area you have done very little, practically nothing. Second, demographics and demographics of Slovenia are unsustainable. The decline in birth rates in Slovenia is declining, but within Europe Slovenia is located on the tail itself after the number of births. Data on the decline of births since 2011 should be a red alarm for you, Madam Minister. As a result, the preparation of the Resolution on Family Policy should speed up and resolve with appropriate socio-family measures, not family problems and the problems and social hardships of the elderly and their rights, in 2018 and in the wake of the future government. An important part of our society is the pensioners and the elderly who are fighting a very large social battle for survival in our country and are often overheared and overlooked. I can't get past the problem we discussed in 2013. Then, as Minister, you assured yourself that you and the Ministry of Health would deal with the problems of the hospice house, and none of them were. The solution to the agony of the weakest and dying for just a few tens of thousands of euros, as far as it was necessary to deal with your ministry, did not mean enough to save the hospice house before closing. Where is your empathy, social sense, and responsibility for these dying people? The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is not, according to our assessment, and is not doing well. Interpellation is justified and the Minister should even step down. Who's got a two-man referendum on them since the ministerial council? I've been expecting the secretary's resignation myself for 20 years. 12. 2015, when again with more than 380,000 votes against the attempt to evaluate the family and children's rights. This was already the second referendum under the auspices of the Minister and she is still in charge of social and family policy in our country. Christian Democrats are constantly reminding us of the wrong policy that has been pursued since the time when the Secretary of State was with Minister Svetlik of that time. We stress, however, that the Minister must take on not only objectively but also subjective responsibility for all that she has not regulated during her term of office, but that the coalition in the coalition agreement has committed itself and these resignations have serious consequences for concrete children and also for their parents. Here we have some promising and unfulfilled projects and changes that have not been made and should necessarily be. At the legislative level, the Ministry has not yet drawn up a law on long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance. At organisational level, the reorganisation of social work centres, which has been announced since the beginning of the mandate, has not yet been carried out. In this regard, Christian Democrats would like to see project documentation, proposals for concrete solutions and legal basis for them. The Minister and the President of the Government say this Monday that everything is ready in this regard. However, the rules that have been prepared and adopted are poor and ineffective, such as the Debt Write-off Act, which has experienced a devastatingly poor response from stakeholders. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has written off 148 individuals totalling 79 000 241.48 euros under Article 5 of the Act. The financial administration of the Republic of Slovenia has written off the debt under Article 4 of the Act to 133 individuals totalling EUR 4 thousand 51.39. Maybe that's why he was so quiet about it. All creditors had already decided to write off their debts to their debtors prior to the adoption of the law and had formed their own criteria and practice in this regard. The second such legislation is the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black with the introduced values. More costs than benefits as the introduction of valuations has further exacerbated the social situation of the elderly. We need to mention the latest novel ZPIZ2, which has literally forced many independent entrepreneurs to stop their activities. We Christian Democrats have warned about this, proposed a new law, but unfortunately failed. This ministry does not encourage those who want to work, and this is unacceptable. The Ministry is also late in the preparation of other laws under the Labour Regulatory Programme 2016. The Minister shall also be objectively responsible for unacceptable residues in the resolution of complaints at the second stage concerning the exercise of rights under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds of the ZUPJS. Although the public has repeatedly stressed how many people are in the process of eliminating employees' arrears and how the number of unresolved complaints is rapidly falling, we are still facing a number of citizens who are in great distress because of the unreasonable wait for a just decision by the Ministry. We would like to know, Madam Secretary, how long do you think a citizen, a family in distress at the decision of your officials, can wait? The latest information from the Ministry was that there are still 3,000 700 pending complaints from the past years. It's unacceptable. Many already publicly point to the poor staffing structure of employees at the Directorate for Social Affairs and other political staff at the Ministry. We conclude that the mildly said strange and harmful CSD actions across Slovenia are also due to reckless and political recruitment at the Ministry. In fact, in recent years, the minister who was supposed to protect the family was actually the most harmful to the family. At the two referendums, her proposals were rejected, but she did not take on objective responsibility and resign. We believe that the Minister does not want to take into account the people for whom she should work, but is just implementing her gender theory agenda. Nor is it consistent, since it left the situation of same-sex women to the United Left and then to the Free Member. Christian Democrats thus clearly see that it is not really about solving the problems of people with same-sex tendencies, but about enforcing ideology in an authoritarian way. We are asking Christian Democrats where the resolution on family policy is. The Ministry is so busy organizing conferences and consultations on gender equality that it has completely forgotten the support of the family on behalf of the Ministry. And this is the responsibility of Minister Anja Kopač Dark. We could count and count. Youth employment projects – there are no special results, more and more 30-year-olds without regular employment, without family and must live at home. Non-response to public criticism of the elderly, which has also been misled and encouraged by professional employees of the Employment Service, who have been misled and encouraged to pay voluntary contributions to pension and disability insurance, and now are not included in the pension period. The Ministry does nothing to support families living below the poverty line. The ministry has practically not begun to draw European funds from European funds yet, and we are already in the middle of a financial perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, when will the calls for the drawing of these funds finally be published? The Minister is not working for the benefit and protection of the family, children, the elderly, so we will support the Christian Democrats' proposal for the discharge of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček congratulates her on this title.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! Your Honor! We do not have a unified position in the Group of Non-Aligned Members on the proposal for the interpretation of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, as tabled by SDS Members, so we will vote each on our own conscience. Although we do not have the same position on interpretation, Members and Members of our Group agree that certain issues affecting children and their rights should not be judged by Members, politicians, media or the public, but by the competent section or courts. That is why we will take this into account in the presentation of the Group's position. Minister Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak believes that both Members of the Alliance are doing their job well. We are convinced that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is one of the key in our country, because we believe in values such as socialism and solidarity. We are convinced that the Minister defends these values in the performance of her work and, with the cooperation of coalition partners, implements them to the greatest extent possible. In addition, we firmly believe in the Alliance that coalition partners should cooperate and not blackmail on issues relating to pensions and the decent life of pensioners. The fact is that the Minister's department, whose work we are evaluating today, contributes a great deal to pensioners. And once again, let me say what our party's president has repeatedly stressed: pensioners without Desus would be no worse. It may seem that we do not see any problems in the area of social policy, but this is far from the truth, because there are quite a few areas where we believe the Ministry should do more. It seems very important to us that, with the current economic growth and improvement, the provisions of the Law on the Balance of Public Finances that touch on family and social policies will be definitively abolished. Obviously, however, the government does not share our conviction, as it has recently proposed to extend or tighten the criteria for their release. But the MPs and members of the coalition have unfortunately confirmed this. We also want our food to be a family code as soon as possible. Because examples such as the one we are dealing with today clearly show that we urgently need a family code. In this regard, we also expect the completion of the project of reorganisation of the work of social work centres in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, because we believe that they should be a friendly and accessible entry point for the social services offered by our country. Today, however, the experience of many users shows that this is not the case. As we can see, there is still much work to be done by the Minister, and we are confident that she will succeed only with the support and confidence of the President of the Government and of all coalition partners. To conclude, we will vote against the intervention of Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, as we have already said at the time of the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u19	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Parliamentary democracy has given Parliament a special role by which it controls the work of an individual minister and thus calls him to account. The minister's chair is not self-evident and is not in any way untouchable. Any minister who swears to respect the constitutional order, to act on his conscience and to act with all his strength for the welfare of Slovenia will commit himself to the values and principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I must recall again, as almost a year ago in the case of the Minister of the Interior's interpretation, that Parliament, through the Institute of Interpellation, is given not only a great competence but also a great responsibility, a responsibility, a responsibility for the applicants to state the legitimate reasons for the interpretation and to respect the dignity of the one who is interpelling. However, the case of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities that we are discussing today is particularly sensitive because it focuses on young children and their family tragedy. They therefore do not take into account their dignity and their right to privacy. Interpellators abuse the fate of two boys for narrow political purposes, which is inappropriate, and the interpretation designed in this way is certainly unfounded. Interpellators shall indicate several indications, mainly related to the responsibility of the Minister, in disproportionate interference with certain constitutionally protected human rights, with the responsibility and abandonment of the duty of the competent minister, with the responsibility and involvement in the politicisation of the work of the social work centres and the responsibility for the consequences of the alleged concealment of mistakes in one of the social work centres, including with responsibility for the preparation of legislation based on political priorities that would be detrimental to the protection of the rights of children, and with regard to the actions and attitudes of the Minister, which would result in a loss of confidence in the institution of the social state. These findings, in the first place, indicate a misunderstanding of the tasks and responsibilities of individual bodies, i.e. social work centres and social inspections, as well as of the competent ministry. Individual cases, which are reflected in public, cannot give rise to an attempt to exert pressure on independent authorities operating within an individual branch of government and in accordance with the laws and regulations, of course, take decisions that we must respect. With the above indications, the applicants deliberately undermine confidence in the work of state institutions and create an erroneous belief that in our legal order children are not protected, even though Slovenia has ratified, for example, the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child and the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. In particular, children enjoy special protection both in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence and the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The debate, which is right at the moment, and the areas that should be addressed, is ensuring the development of the profession in the context of social policy, the necessity of reorganisation of social work centres, both organisational and substantive. The recast of family legislation, the legal regulation of long-term care and personal assistance and the regulation of those aspects of labour law which have proved to be weak by allowing the abuse and exploitation of workers and by limiting flexibility in the labour market. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the Minister is expected to implement the necessary legal changes in all the areas I have listed in accordance with the agreed timetable in the Government and in accordance with the commitments contained in the Coalition Agreement. The Ministry's field of work, which runs it, is extensive, but the policies and measures implemented by the Ministry directly touch the most vulnerable groups in our society. The timeliness of legislation in this area is therefore so much more difficult. For the sake of all the above mentioned in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we reject the intervention against the Minister in all clear points and we will unanimously oppose her interpretation. However, we expect these measures and results, which will allow us to re-evaluate the work of the Minister in a few months. Until then, we also expect, as the President of the Government has pointed out, that the coalition will remain together and that all three parties will work in charge and for the development of Slovenia, so that the political space will be stable. Playing with the Interpellation Institute is not state-of-the-art, and the breakdown of political stability is very irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u21	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. There is probably no doubt that we will support interpellation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Interpellation, as you have heard today, is based on or given due responsibility for disproportionate interference with human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the suspension of the obligation to act within the framework of political and official powers to ensure human rights in the arbitral detention of children in the care of old parents by the Velenje Centre for Social Work, for the purpose of responsibilities and abandonment of duty as a competent minister, who is obliged to ensure that State authorities, holders of public powers in all activities and procedures relating to children take care of the child's benefit and integrity of the family community, in the event of arbitrary abduction of children in the care of old parents. Interpellation is also given due to the responsibility and involvement in the politicisation of the work of social work centres in the case of CSD Slovenj Gradec and the responsibility for the consequences of the cover-up of CSD Slovenia Gradec's mistakes, which was responsible for deciding on the application for the care of the old parents in whom the grandson lived. Due to the responsibility to draw up legislation on the basis of political priorities that have been detrimental to the protection of children's rights and to the actions and positions of the Minister responsible for the family by exercising a political function that results in a loss of confidence in the institutions of the social state. Interpellation is not given to exploit the tragedy of the family, as was heard today by Minister Anja Kopač Dark, and it is not about performing in front of the public. We could talk about this, because soon after the removal of children, the ministry or the minister participated in a press conference on 6 April 2016, together with experts, inspection and even then, we can say, somehow wash this dirty laundry in front of the public. So, only the Ministry started public speaking and public accounting with old parents. In fact, at that press conference, it was not possible to present or present their views to the old parents, but only the profession, as the minister says, left the old parents only to go to the street, to the Ministry and demand their right. On Monday, I asked the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Cerar, which and to what extent human rights must be violated in order to request the resignation of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Dr Kopač Dark. The answer was very interesting. In fact, Dr. Cerar finds the Minister to be objectively responsible. So the Prime Minister himself notes that this is an objective responsibility, which the Minister has today strongly denied in her address. However, in the opinion of the President of the Government, objective responsibility does not reach that intensity which would justify any action in the sense that the President of the Government would require its resolution. Therefore, for the Prime Minister of the Government, an infringement of human rights protected by the Constitution is not sufficient reason for the discharge of Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. However, for the President of the Government, interestingly enough, there is a reason for the discharge of a minister who does not implement the decisions of the Government, which she believes would also constitute a violation of the law. This is therefore a reason enough to relieve the minister, not to protect or violate human rights. On Monday, Dr Cerar also said that in recent years there have been many problems in the area of social, social and social protection, social work centres. That in recent years there have been extremely few, not enough good practices, even bad practices, that there have been quite a few systemic inconsistencies and that there has only been some key conversion since 2012 if I quote Dr Cerar and that work is managed more qualitatively. So if we also look at the work of the current Minister from this point of view, it is good to look at the work of the current Minister from this point of view. In fact, current Minister Kopač Mrak has been at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities since 2008. Between 2008 and 2012, she was Secretary of State, and later she is already in the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek and is Minister until today. So if we look back in those years, as Dr. Cerar said, that for some time there have been systemic inadequacies and coordinations, let us remind ourselves that at the time Dr. Anja Kopač Dark was under the then government in 2010, the Pahor government was passed the so-called Svetlik Act, the Law on Social Protection Benefits. This law, or this law, abolished state pensions that were justified over 65 years of age and had no other income. This law has transferred the protection allowance to a new social assistance system. A prohibition on the alienation of property is introduced, so all investors who have applied for monetary, social or security aid had to agree to the registration of a ban on the alienation, sale, transcription and loading of their property in a country-owned land book. In the meantime, the Minister rejected the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to remove this prohibition. That was, I think, a year ago. Social assistance thus becomes a permanent loan under Svetlik's law, and then State Secretary Kopač Mrak describes the new law as follows: "The purpose of this law is to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion and to promote work activity or maintain motivation for work. By abolishing the state pension and by transferring the protective allowance to the social assistance system, we establish a more transparent and, in particular, a more socially equitable system." End of quote. After so many years, it is clear that the owners of properties for which some have worked most of their own, I will say, the working time of their lives, the hiring of loans, the borrowing of loans, the abandonment of many properties, they have eventually renounced the protection allowance or social assistance. From December 2011 to December 2012, the number of applicants for a protective allowance is thus reduced by 78 %, in September 2012 the recipients were 13 thousand 450, in the case of a protective allowance and in September 2015 only 9 thousand and a little more. Studies today show that the number of recipients of financial social assistance has been increasing since 2012. In particular, it is significantly increased in 2014 and 2015. In 2013, an average of 68 000 people received monthly social assistance, in 2014 74 thousand 500 and in 2015 80 thousand 600 people. The social picture of the long-term unemployed, low-income persons, low-retirement pensions is exacerbated from year to year. Let me also mention that the number of families receiving financial social assistance increased by 29 % from 2012 to 2015. Some now have their property, but not the means to pay basic necessities of life and have followed and will still be assignments. Since 2013, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak has been working on a strategy to extend the capacity of the homeless, by increasing the accommodation capacity of the employed persons, families and so on, but does not deal with the possibility of remedying these errors, which of course occurred in Svetlik's law. As Minister, Mrakov has every opportunity to abolish such a non-social law. I'm afraid she didn't do it until today. For the start of her ministry, Dr. Digač Dark has also set herself the task of canceling her work in black. We can see from the report of the Institute for Social Protection that as a way out of the crisis of social distress for individuals who are able to work and who are long-term unemployed or with low incomes, they mainly refer to work in black. This was done by Minister Kopač Mrakova with the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. For the implementation of the personal supplemental work, it introduced the values that are purchased before the work is carried out for EUR 9 per month and which have started to apply as from 1 January 2015. In 2015, the values for the ZPIZ and ZZZS totalled EUR 158 000 490. By taking away all the fixed costs needed to establish a system of valuations, the cost of operating the system itself was 349 000 a year and the revenue was only 158 000 euros 500. The rapid review shows, therefore, that the cost of the valuation system is significantly higher than the revenue provided for in this Title. So it's another missed project by current Minister Dr. Copač Dark. The next major fiasco to reduce poverty and help socially disadvantaged families was the call for scholarships for deficit occupations. The invitation was issued a year ago, and he was operating on the scholarship system, and whoever comes early gets the grant. Both parents and students were there at four o’clock in the morning before the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of Personnel and Scholarship. And when it collapsed after that, I can say roughly the electronic log-in system. Within the first two hours of the invitation to tender, nearly 30,000 visits were made and only after disclosure in the media and public pressure, and when the Ombudsman also called attention to the irregularities, the Minister simply cancelled the call and republished it. A similar collapse also took place in 2014 when the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia introduced an electronic application for a public invitation to public works in 2015. At the end of the entire calvary, employers submitted the application in writing, i.e. the application did not work. No one was responsible for the inconveniences and irregularities of this call. At the beginning of 2015, Minister Kopač Mrak announced a new project with great support from the President, Dr Cerar. If we know that Svetlik's 2010 law has plunged thousands of people into increasing poverty, this project has been a mockery to all socially endangered people. Minister Kopač Mrak severely restricted the beneficiaries with conditions which were discriminatory. First of all, it was a condition that beneficiaries must be recipients of social assistance, which means that they had to agree to the cancellation of the property, so they had to mortgage their property. The beneficiaries were only those who received monetary social assistance in the first six months of 2015. The write-off amounted to a maximum of 50 euros in debt and had to be one year old. This certainly, as the profession points out, was not the basis for electricity, water, rent, because these things are being paid further and most of the time those on the social side are being paid with the help of humanitarian organisations. In fact, in the event that these positions are not settled, there is a post. At the same time, there were only 120 municipalities that joined the project. After her first announcement after her very successful project, the minister said she was expecting about 100,000 applications. Of course, disappointment soon followed, for some it was not, and the number somehow fell to half. Today, it is said that the beneficiaries will be around 10% of the number published in October 2015, a little more than 500 applications. So many successful projects implemented by the Minister between 2008 and today at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. But I wouldn't touch what the minister said today, because this is planning for the future. However, the Minister spoke about her plans at the hearing on 12 September 2014 when she spoke in essence in the same way as today, if not the same. She talked about how long-term care will be regulated, how personal assistants will be regulated, how to reorganise social work centres, she also promised to reorganise the employment institutions of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. What was today's speech was a work in progress, and we listened to it at the beginning of the mandate and nothing was done in this area at all. As far as long-term care is concerned, we are also reminded of this by the European Union. However, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Family Policy have a special approach. The Minister has already tried twice to change family policy by means of a family code in 2012 and by supporting amendments to the Marriage and Family Relations Act last year. Both were rejected by a large majority at the referendums, and in the meantime there was a Law on Parental Protection, which was accompanied by Flossules on the Equality of Mothers and Fathers, but we know that reality shows quite differently. All of these are for the President, i.e. all the matters described by the Prime Minister of the Government, unsuccessful work on irregularities, and for some it is a great success for the current Minister, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark. And as if the failed and discriminatory projects are changing legislation in the field of social and labour markets, creating new and new social problems and hardships and deepening the rate of poverty, trying to change family legislation at all costs, over and over again, although the people's will has already been expressed twice in the referendum, it is not enough, or it is enough, that the Minister protects the illegal abduction of children for old parents. It is also important to say that at the time of her ministry after the fall of the family code, not one law was adopted which would regulate family policy in terms of the protection of families and children differently from the 1976 law. Today, we have heard from the Minister that a family code has been drawn up and that nothing has been done in this area has somehow been accused by the public or non-governmental organisation of one way or another, but the Minister is the one who has not been sitting in the ministerial chair since 2014, but has had all the possibilities and levers in her hands to carry out the family code or legal changes in the family field. The Minister did not propose any changes to the law or to the new law to protect the family. Its priorities were ideological themes — topics for the resolution of same - sex situations. In the case of the Korean boys, the Minister’s responsibility is not only objective but also subjective, as it could, through instructions from the Social Inspectorate, reject or establish the grounds for all of the above infringements of the procedures introduced by the lawyer or appeared in public. With her powers, the Minister covered the removal of grandchildren from her parents by political functions, although she was informed of the case and violations by means of her grandmother and lawyer before the press conference on 6 April. In other words, regarding publicly known violations, she has not yet done anything to remedy the violations. She agreed that the community of grandchildren and old parents was not treated as a family community and that the elderly parents with whom they lived were not treated as a party to the procedure. Under Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms for the Family, the protected living community is also considered a community of old parents and grandchildren. The competent CSD Velenje services, CSD Slovenj Gradec, have seriously affected the family community in their procedures and decisions, alienated the grandson from the old parents, who still have no contact with each other. The grandmother applied for foster care at CSD Slovenj Gradec, who refused the application without any substantial arguments. CSD Slovenj Gradec has not submitted an application to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which must decide on the role. In a specific case, the Ministry did not decide and the procedure for granting care to old parents was not completed. Minister Dr. Kopač Dark had to know about this before April 6th, when she defended both CSD Velenje and CSD Slovenia Gradec together with the social work inspector at the press conference. Did the competent services and Minister Anja Kopač Dark think that the documents proving the procedure would be covered up and, of course, at the press conference at that time warned that all the documents indicated that all the procedures had been carried out correctly, were all those experts who had participated in the press conference at that time, and Minister Kopač Dark thought that these documents would cover all the irregularities of the violation of children's rights, the grave interference with the family community? That the documents cover the voice of their neighbors and acquaintances of their old parents who supported both in their efforts to get grandchildren into foster care? Director of CSD Velenje Lydia Hartman Kolletnik even felt insulted because we did everything according to the profession. Was everything also in line with the expertise that Mrs. Gabi Čačinovich Vogrinčič, a psychologist and a social worker, illegally familiarized herself with all the data and could claim at the same press conference that she was working for the good of the child? Now they're coming up on the day of the data that she signed a review contract five days after the press conference, and the work was done before that, so without a contract, they put it together and signed it later. If they haven't even arranged it, then is it possible that they've prepared documents relating to the abduction of children? And the minister says, I followed the profession. We can say, nothing new, for the centre of nothing new, for the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, i.e. against the director of CSD Velenje, a criminal charge was filed in the past because in 2009 she refused to grant aid to a socially disadvantaged person and forged a charter in this regard and framed it as evidence. But it's Chachinovich Vogrinčič, at the time, 6. April, at the press conference, she also said that responsibility must be taken. Who in this case took responsibility in the case of the Korean boys? Nobody. Except CSD Director Slovenj Gradec, who resigned because, contrary to the law, he retained the role of an old mother for foster care and did not send her to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. This has also been established by the Administrative Inspectorate, which is not under the jurisdiction of Mrak Kopač and cannot affect it, but is under the authority of Minister Koprivnik. As a result, CSD Director Slovenj Gradec also had to step down. This raises the question why the Minister did not request the resignation of all other CSD directors who did the same. And the secretary says she followed the profession. Let us see what the administrative court has done in this case and what the minister has politically advocated and advocated to this day. When the grandchildren were taken from their parents, they were encroached on the human right to family life, as set out in the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It doesn’t matter whether it’s parents and children or whether it’s old parents and grandchildren. The status of the family community shall be recognised by both communities if it is clear, in the light of the circumstances, that a relationship such as that between parents and children is established between grandchildren and parents. The state must not interfere. In this case, however, the intervention of the State has been given even the political cover of the Minister, who has done nothing within the limits of her powers to remedy these violations. Interestingly, as a minister, she consistently advocated all possible forms of family life, except for those of old parents and grandchildren who cannot be cared for by parents, not treated as a family community. Moreover, the State’s intervention in the situation of children and old parents did not give them the right to a remedy, as they were not granted the status of the party in the proceeding. That all the manipulations of the Minister have not yet seen the end, we were able to hear yesterday how she gave innovatively or was given an interpretation of the Supreme Court judgment, which was by the way adopted last week, but came, as appropriate politically, only yesterday, obviously in order to achieve some public opinion effect before the mere interpretation. The fact is that the Supreme Court has decided only on the provisional order for the return of grandchildren to the old parents, who had already been rejected at the first stage, until human rights violations have been established, has not been determined. Moreover, such an order was rejected only for procedural reasons, because the court can only settle in an administrative dispute with a provisional order the relationship which is the subject of a dispute between the parties. In a given case, these are decisions on the allocation to fostering, where the old parents were deprived of the right to participate as a party. The decision was not even given to them. Therefore, the Supreme Court could not temporarily determine the parental relationship, since old parents could not complain about the appointment. About a month ago, an interview was held on Radio Slovenia with Dr. Verico Trstenjak, about a month ago, and at that time she said so in her statements, or at first she said something about distance and was critical of Slovenian society, the rule of law, also politics and government. She said, "I am personally disappointed with the current government, especially in respect of respect for moral, ethical and other standards." Regarding the case of the Korean boys who have been shaking Slovenia for the past few weeks, she said, "I am appalled. Excuse me, how can the Ministry say that the decision is legal and human rights are violated? That's the reason for responsibility, for resignation." End of quote. Because of all the facts that have been taken into account in the interpretation and all the facts that I have presented today, that is, all the unsuccessful projects of Minister Dr. Kopač Mrak, because we believe that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities with her projects does not save the poverty of the socially disadvantaged, but only further deepens it, and because we believe that in the case of the Korean boys she is objectively and subjectively responsible, we will also support the interpretation in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u24	Honourable Vice-President, Ministerial Assembly, Honourable Minister Anja Kopač Dark, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are gathered in this Chamber to talk all day about the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak. Let me explain to you from the outset, given that in the last days there has been a lot of ink spilling around and a lot of words saying that we have not changed our minds in the Desus Group, we will support the interpretation. I would like to suggest to you some of the reasons behind this decision, perhaps for some unexpected decisions. Whatever the outcome of this interpellation, we would like to convey to the public a message that we do not agree with the policy in this area of the Ministry. It would be difficult to say that in the Desus Group we do not share the same views on social policy as our fellow Social Democrats, but what if the devil is always in detail. The views are similar, sometimes even the same, but it whispers reality. As a result of this, there is also a requirement for today's interpolation, as the case of the Korean boys would probably not have been at all if the minister had not been very late with the proposal for a new family code, which, among other things, defines foster care. In the past, the Minister has dealt with the amendment of the law proposed by the opposition party, at which time I personally and the parliamentary group have warned about it, and we have also made it clear and clear that we have a different record in the coalition contract and that the Minister should then deal with it more, not with a proposal to amend one article of this law. For a decade we have been waiting for a law on long-term care, which is not only in the domain of one source, but the Minister should certainly take the initiative here, and unfortunately we have not seen any more proactive action in this area by Dr. Anja Kopač Dark. While we are already in the midst of long-term care, which is becoming a growing problem with demographic changes in long-term society, we cannot ignore the fact that the Minister has not had proper hearing, of course this has changed a little lately, even since we have given serious and responsible warning to this matter. For an excellent volunteer project, these are Older Ages, a project that currently replaces the absence of regulated long-term care, a project that is also considered to be good for people. It is a project of the Alliance of Retired Persons, where volunteers, younger and more active pensioners help those who have been disabled at home. Few countries in the world can boast of such a network of mutual assistance between the elderly, which is spread across Slovenia, so it is difficult to buy a story that unfortunately there is not enough money for such projects. I will provide some information to clarify why it is not acceptable for the Ministry to react too slowly to the requests of organisers for higher and more systemic financial assistance, but not to subject the organisers to such calls every year. In ten years, the Older Ages Project has managed to attract as many as 300 pensioners to the mutual assistance programme. By the end of 2015, the programme had been able to cover up to 67% of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. More than 3,000 400 volunteers and volunteers have been acquired, who are as many as 152 thousand over 69 years of age to visit and offer assistance on a regular basis. Nearly 700,000 visits and 230 thousand relief services were made, with at least 7 million voluntary hours. Why can't we find enough money for a project like this? It's kind of very sad. If we look at this on the other hand, we don't have these things systematically solved. It would also be difficult for ministers to detect incompetence or ignorance of the field of work, since it has been practically eight years at the Ministry. It is therefore even more surprising that its social policies are unfortunately not effective enough. We are spending a billion and a half euros on social transfers at annual level, but in fact it is only a matter of putting out the fire and there is no real effect. At the same time, we are waiting for the ministry to finally prepare a labour market reform, which is the only real answer to many social questions. We have also repeatedly said that we do not support the Minister's policy in the field of social work centres. We believe that we are putting too much pressure on social workers with administration, but they are running out of time for the field and people, that is, for real social work. We cannot go beyond the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities has been in control for almost a decade, as is evident in the staffing structure of the Ministry itself. That's not good for the country. You could also say something about human resources in the world of social work centres and home for older citizens, where the SD party sometimes behaves a little too domestically. As has already been said, we are disturbed by policies in the field of social work centres and home for the elderly, because we see that it has slipped quite a bit, unfortunately this also shows us the unfortunate case of the Korean boys, because we are confident and so the Administrative Court found that the whole story could take place in a more human way. I read somewhere that we're making a salad of mortals, and it was written down to another that we're tacturing, but today we've shown that we're very serious. We do not force ourselves or make cow trades, as Minister Dejan Židan told us, but we want to cut off the harmful activities of the party that controls this area. We have enough politics, we want more expertise. Sociala must not be the domain of one party. We are responsible for ensuring a decent life for all those who are sitting in the National Assembly and also in the Government. Madam Secretary, I'd like to remind you of coalition arrangements you didn't respect. At several meetings, we discussed open issues. You made a lot of promises, and then you changed your mind several times, and you brought us across the water with your promises to settle pressing issues. Too bad, it could have been different. But if things get too crowded, sometimes there's just enough drops over the edge to make it all go away. Finally, let me say that we are sorry that we did not find a common language, but we feel that the conversation was enough, but unfortunately we did not listen or hear. As has already been said, we will support the intervention against Minister Anjo Kopač Dark. However, we wish you, Madam Secretary, a successful job, anywhere you can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you so much for your good wishes, Mr. Jursha. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, the Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Desus! I'd like to tear these leaves apart right now, but because I'm a nice guy, and because it allows me to read it, I'm going to read it because what Mr. Franz said in his position is a dot. [[…]] At first glance, this, respected, interpretation proposed by the SDS and the signatories could be described as typical, as something we have the opportunity to see in this assembly practically every few months. When the opposition, because of its own promotion, finds anything and puts it in the format of interpolation. Then it is necessary to find an on-call culprit, whom the minister is well equipped with populism, to add some political flossules, to be a little sad, disappointed, and to say how incompetent this government is, of course, to give a pervasive impression of how only some have been called upon to save this country from the left-hand involuntary government or from a bad government. This is the eloquent example, ladies and gentlemen, of this kind of conduct. This more than arguments offer a small sea of emotional manipulations, manipulations that feed on the grave exploitation of the family tragedy, we repeat this all the time, the greatest victims of which are two teenage boys. As social Democrats, we do not object to interpellation as an institution that enables the opposition and that it is responsible to demand the political responsibility of an individual minister, but we strongly oppose, my dears, that politics uses family, especially children, for its political pear, to raise political points. These interpolations, if they were a normal country, should not be and if we force a little empathy towards children. However, if some cannot or do not wish to do so, they should leave it to the style and the legal and not political judgement, even because it is a concrete case in which legal proceedings are under way, ladies and gentlemen. But, of course, that's not enough. It is necessary to distort content, content that is essential to children and to these same children because of selfish, political, political, human resources and I do not yet know what matters to do that is irreparable. The curiosity of the case raises the question why the family affected by the institutions of the State for the protection of children is not the most appropriate environment for the healthy development of these two boys. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, we don't know today. And since it's about protecting the child's benefits, so is it. However, if anyone doubts the decision of these institutions, there is no doubt about it by the administrative court. This, in its judgment, explicitly stated that they would stay with their foster parents because this was in their favor. This same court has also explicitly rejected the requirement that children be returned to their parents. The Supreme Court also ruled that it is best for the boy to stay with the foster parents in these circumstances. This is where our debate should end. Let the institutions have the last word, and thank God there are courts in this country. We will, and we will be much more pleased to say so, if the opposition and part of the Interpellation Coalition against the Minister decide because it disagrees with her proposals and her ideas, especially how the social state should look, for example, when the Ministry of Labour opposes the so-called social cap or when the Ministry of Labour and the Minister is not in favour of the richest tax breaks, or when the Ministry opposes and supports the equalization of same-sex rights and, more importantly, does not agree to the idea of the right to return to Slovenia in the Middle Ages and restricts women's right to free decision on the birth of children. These are social issues, ladies and gentlemen. As we are convinced that Dr. Anja Kopač Dark and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities work well, the Social Democrats of this interpretation and discussion are not afraid of and we are not afraid of it. But, my dears, there should be a lot of people in this room looking in the mirror today and asking themselves about the appropriateness of this interpolation, interpolation, which is nothing more than political marketing, but the worst kind. In view of the fact that the competent institutions are considering a tragic case, and this is the National Assembly, thank God it is not, today we want to have a reasoned debate on the responsibility of the Minister of Labour, the director who leads it. We are confident that it will show that this ministry is doing well, and most importantly, it has results. Of course, some have had the opportunity to take over this area in all governments, but of course it is more convenient to sit on areas where you do not have to deal with problems, but it is important that you have a quota in the government. We understand that you are not interested in what we have actually done for people, that we have raised the minimum supplement, the income, that we have added new scholarships, has released additional classes of the child supplement, that due to the actions of this government and this ministry, which you are interpreting today, I do not know what, for a long time, unemployment has been falling. Of course you can't admit that. You are concerned with the artificial creation of political conflicts, the creation of new crises, because this is the only way to prevent the crises you have in your own kind. But I'm sorry that one part of the left opposition as part of the coalition falls on this trick. In dissuading our own problems, however, today we will probably not be depriving the sermon of what is and is not a social policy. Social Democrats believe that social policy is not just a policy of social transfers or other individual measures, it is a collective, my dear, set of sectoral policies requiring the response of all stakeholders and the consensus of all parties involved. There is a social dialogue in which we believe and which we will continue to strive for, because in the Social Democrats we do not agree to a conflict between work and capital. Social Democrats are convinced that a system based on solidarity is one of the foundations of the social state on the basis of reciprocity and justice. For the quality life of all people, the key goods that must be protected as public goods and accessible to all are essential. It is the duty of the State to create equality of opportunity for all people. Slovenia, we all know this, is a constitutionally legal and social state. But it all shows that the constitution doesn't have any weight if we don't stand behind it and defend it. As long as there is awareness in our society that it is also part of the social provision of quality public education, that access to public health is part of social access, that the task of the social state is also to ensure the security of people, to eliminate inequalities in society and that judgments are written in the rule of law on the basis of legislation and not emotions, especially if they are used, we will have a social and legal state for so long, ladies and gentlemen. To preserve this, we Social Democrats will continue to work, even at the cost of stumbling, even at the cost of less popularity in the public or too much responsibility. Of course, we recognize that all the measures we have taken may not have proved to be the best, so the Minister and this government are predicting changes. We have absolutely no problem with this. Admitting and correcting my notions is the most beautiful thing. We have amended the 28 million-dollar non-constitutional provisions of the ZUJF. The memory doesn't fool me about the timeline and about that government. Which parties were in the government at the time? But let's just leave it. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, austerity policy has been strengthened and new pressures have been created, and today some people are using these pressures to promote themselves instead of seeking common solutions. We will, of course, be involved by the Social Democrats. However, we will not fall into this trap because we are a responsible party and because we want to continue to act responsibly. But I believe it's easier to gloat, to find fault, to play on your emotions, than to find answers that are very difficult in these times. The department, which is run by our minister, I believe, and I'm sure it's one of the most demanding. Never, my dears, have the Social Democrats been relieved of the responsibility to take on the tasks they have to say with the hardships of people, with poverty, with unemployment, and could still be listed. We believe that the country has an important role to play in ensuring equality between individuals and the task of eliminating, in particular, the injustices that accumulate in the system through tax policy and social policy. Whether you want to admit it or not, however you read the statistics, we read the numbers, the results show that in these times the policy of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, led by Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, is good and in its implementation follows social democratic values: solidarity, equality, justice, partnership, tolerance and security. The Social Democrats know that, so we won't support this interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The last position, namely the position of the United Left Group, will be presented by Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to everyone else! As we know, the social situation in the country has unfortunately deteriorated for many years despite economic growth. All the indicators, all the statistics point to a pretty clairvoyant picture. At this point, 290,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens live below the poverty line, it is said that they spend months on incomes that do not allow for an unworthy survival or a minimal existence minimum. Despite economic growth, we have an increase in long-term unemployment and an increase in poverty, especially in those segments of the population that are cut off from the labour market due to either disability, age or any other cause. At the same time, we have the greatest inequality recorded in recent Slovenian history. The top 10% of the population now owns 35% of the property and the poorest 20% of the population owns a modest 1% of the property in this country. The blame for this situation is, of course, on governments, and especially on the one hand, on the Ministry of Finance, while at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. This ministry does not implement or poorly implement policies against poverty. For an illustration, I will point out five such policies, to which we have already mentioned the entire mandate in the United Left. These are policies that would be implemented immediately with minimum budgetary resources and would significantly help to improve the situation of the poorest population groups in this country. Just before the interpretation, last week, we called a meeting of the Labour Committee to discuss these policies with the Minister again. If I describe them briefly. The first such policy is markings on real estate. They were introduced with Pahor-Svetlik's reform; Anja Kopač Dark was then State Secretary for the Ministry of Labour. With this change, this reform has made monetary social assistance and the protection allowance a form of credit, it is said that it is no longer unconditional aid, but it is a repayable aid which must be returned by the descendants of the recipients. It is a deterrent measure, it is said, that the number of beneficiaries or the number of applicants for this aid has decreased significantly because they simply do not want to burden their children or their grandchildren with abandoned debts. This measure is socially unjust and we all agree on it in this room. The right opposition has already supported the request for its removal, and in the coalition contract, you wrote that the return of social aid must be eliminated at least for less property owners. However, every time we called on the ministry to make this commitment under the coalition agreement, we ran into deaf ears or, as we heard last week on the committee, I quote, "we are not yet at the point when we should make commitments under the coalition contract". This came from a coalition and I will not say that I am strange, but this is the first coalition in the National Assembly, which clearly represents a coalition treaty in the way that it will enter into force only after the end of the term of office. The second issue is minimum income. In 2009, it is said that seven years ago, it was calculated that the minimum amount needed in Slovenia is EUR 385. This amount does not allow a decent survival, but is the amount that determines the existential minimum. Seven years later, this amount is still EUR 100 lower than the 2009 recalculated. This is worrisome because the minimum income is a basis for a number of forms of social assistance, including for the protection allowance, social cash assistance and so on. It would not take much to raise it to a level that would allow for an existing minimum of EUR 385. All we have to do is raise the corporate income tax to 20%, which the Ministry of Finance is planning for the fall, and this would include an additional €90 million in the budget, which would be sufficient for this increase. We have already proposed this several times in the United Left, last but not least with the budgets for 2016 and 2017. There is no signal from the Ministry that they would be interested in such a measure, even though they are, in fact, those who should be primarily concerned about the welfare of the poorest groups. And here I stress once again, by raising the minimum income, we would help those who are largely unemployed by non-economic growth and inactive employment policies. The third step we have pointed out is the school lunch price. We have proposed in the United Left that free school lunches be introduced for children living in families below the poverty line. In the coalition, you have made this somewhat tighter, but the Ministry has been instructed to implement the measure and in the budget you have reserved EUR 8 million for this measure to be implemented in 2016. In the United Left, we have recently asked the Ministry and the Ministry of Education how this measure is being implemented, and have received information that by the end of April, some less than 2 million budget resources were used from the 8 million reserved in the budget. Thus, if this goes on, by the end of the year a good half of the money will be spent on free lunches for poor children in primary schools reserved in the budget. The blame for such implementation is directly attached to the Ministry as the Ministry did not sufficiently inform the parents and therefore the children entitled to the measure did not come to a free lunch. Similarly, the debt write-off took place, including the proposal of the United Left. The coalition rejected it because the ministry said it would produce a better, systemic measure. This measure also came with great promises at the end of the previous parliamentary season. The ministry promised to open debts to more than 100,000 poor people in the country, but the measure itself carried out such a ploy that only 3 000 500 write-offs eventually came. They accounted for about 3% of the target population. These are just illustrations of the work of this ministry, just illustrations of how insufficient, how superficial, how clairvoyant the work of this ministry is. The Minister did not come to this meeting where we invited her to discuss these measures and possible remedial measures, and she is obviously not even ready to discuss her mistakes. And these mistakes are just the tip of the iceberg. At this point, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Anja Kopač Mrak, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has been six years in the last eight years, of which 3 years has served as Secretary of State and 3 years as Minister. At that time, even after the crisis ended when economic growth resumed, the number of unemployment, poverty and so on deepened. Many anti-social policies have been implemented in this regard. The current Minister is responsible for the 2012 reform, with which the elderly and disabled were deprived of state pensions. As a result, today more than 65,000 beneficiaries of the protection allowance and social assistance are living in a situation where their incomes no longer cover the minimum cost of living. Practically nothing has been done in the field of leniency. This is rising rapidly; in 2014 we recorded a 14% increase in agency work. At the same time, on the other hand, we have a trend of reducing labour inspectors, currently in the country over 200,000 business entities are controlled by only 77 labour inspectors. This information is sufficient for you to imagine how impossible it is to work as an inspectorate and why the number of infringements of labour law from year to year is increasing. When we were in the United Left or someone else taking initiatives to remedy this situation, the ministry reacted in a way that primarily defended political prestige and the interests of its party. Finally, we saw the procedure in our new Law on the Inspection of Work, with which we in the United Left wanted to grant work inspectors the powers by which, if we found out that someone was working in a company through an illegal agency for work or that he was on forced espionage, the inspector would then order the employer to hire this person. The same is true if a tax inspection reveals that someone is working in black. It is not the worker’s fault that someone is working in black or through forced espionage. Therefore, the labour inspection should have the same powers as the tax inspection. This is also what we have proposed with our amendment of the law. Nothing more than one article of the law should be corrected, this has been supported by trade unions and has been supported by a broad civil society. The ministry has once again replied that it will not accept our proposal because it will prepare its systemic action. I'm sorry, Madam Minister, but people in this country don't have time to wait for your systemic measures. Similarly, a systemic measure, a law on the participation of workers in management, has been taken. We'll deal with this on Friday. This is the largest project of the United Left so far, since we have thoroughly revised this law 20 years old law on co-management, with which we want to put economic democracy and co-ordination by German example in Slovenia on its feet. In the last 20 years, because of insufficient legislation at the same time, because of other causes, especially political disfavor, we have made a regression in the field of economic democracy, and it is time to turn things around. The Minister comes from a party of Social Democrats, i.e. the party that is supposed to compete most for social dialogue. When we started talking to the Government about this law, which was supported by all seven trade unions, and the first reading in Parliament was supported by a group of unrelated and Desus groups, we were accepted by the Government at the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the secretary of Tadej Slapnik with the group and the Ministry of Economy. Paradoxically, it was with the Ministry of Labour, which is the Ministry of Labour and which should by definition be the most committed to such measures, but we have come across the opposite of many attempts at procedurally avoiding the adoption of this law. Last but not least, it has come to the point that we will probably not get the opinion of the Economic and Social Council in this law by fault of the Ministry before its parliamentary hearing. This is another proof that the Minister is not working for the public good, that the Minister is not involved in social and social dialogue, but is concerned only with social democracy. We saw the same story in the referendum campaign on equalizing the rights of same-sex couples with heterosexual couples. We've given the initiative to the United Left, yes, but it's supported by the entire coalition. And in the referendum campaign, the entire coalition withdrew from it. According to the media, the party of Social Democrats spent about 1,000 euros on the campaign. By comparison, in the United Left, which we are a significantly smaller, newer and financially weaker party, we have spent at least 20 times that much. The Ministry of Security did not join the referendum campaign, nor did the Government. Once again, political prestige has overcome the common good, and once again this ministry has shown that it is not about principles, but only about who will wear the crown when it proposes a change. We are, of course, sorry about this proposal in the United Left, but we are even more sorry that this approach has led to the vote of those whom we have tried to overcome the same rights with our proposal. Madam Minister, for two years we tried to coordinate with you, and each time we ran into a closed door. From debt write-off to labour inspection law, from property stamps to the law on employee participation in management, each time you chose to fight for political prestige, each time you put your client's interests ahead of the common good, you have shown that you are not involved in social, not in labour rights, not in eliminating discrimination, but that you are in a position to exercise solely and exclusively the interests of your client. With this you have become an obstacle to the elimination of inequalities, the elimination of poverty and all other tasks that your ministry must carry out by definition. We do not agree in any way with the tone or content of the interpretation prepared by the SDS, but for the reasons I have stated, we must call you back, Madam Minister, on your behalf. We don't think your work is good enough. It's right for you to leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before continuing with the debate between Members and Members on the interpretation, allow me once again to reiterate that, in addressing this item on the agenda of Members and Members, given that a specific procedure relating to minors is being laid down in the context of the interpretation, I would like to point out that in your deliberations you respect such an international legal, constitutional and legal right to privacy, to the protection of personal data, especially the protection of minors. Once again, I would like to stress, for special care, not only for the sake of minors, but also because the procedures are still open and we are also, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as a state body, liable for the damage that may result from our unlawful conduct. The information contained in the ongoing procedures relating to an individual shall be more protected in relation to the National Assembly and Members than any State secret where Members have the right to be viewed and treated with due diligence. In the case of ongoing procedures relating to an individual, none of the Members and Members shall have the right to an examination because of their functions. If the debate goes beyond these limitations, to which I am reminding again, the Presidents will immediately intervene in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, representative of the proposer, please, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. In view of the fact that the views of all the parliamentary groups have been presented, I think it would be good to come to this place. To a greater extent, even in view of the events of the last days, that the positions are in some way expected, but I must say, the disappointment over the greatest, I will just say, the most ethical and moral party in this National Assembly, that they simply do not understand that it is not political overcoming and that what they have actually done in these last two days, but that it is an irregularity. There's a bunch of lawyers among you, and at least on your part, I would expect a different attitude and a different decision. However, the debate is still a long time, I believe that there may be a lot more going on at this time. Dear Minister, I must say that I really expected you to respond to our statements in the interpretation or to those statements that I presented only in the beginning as a proponent. In a few words, you said that it was a publicized show, that you thought public debate about this case inappropriate, you applied a few sentences to the content, but in fact almost nothing to the content of the interpretation, but everything else you went through literally some listening. This was carried out in 2014. That's when you said what you were going to do, so there are meetings on the committees when we're discussing a particular subject, and today we're talking about interpretation. And in our interpolation are the key irregularities, which, of course, we expect here today your explanations and we would like to hear them. We don't care what you're up to. Interpellation refers to what has already been done and what has been done incorrectly. As for this public debate, once again, it was you who were 6. 4. Make a press conference and go public with this case. You're the one. Our interpellation was filed on April 12th. But this very press conference of yours was actually the reason that we said it, and that is really the absurdity of all absurdities and that is why we need to put in an interpolation. You are the one who, more than obviously then, wanted to calm the public a little bit, look, everything is fine, I quickly ordered the inspection of the Social Inspection, it did not detect an irregularity, even though you know that they did not by any basic logic do what they were supposed to do. They simply went to review the documentation of one side of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, did not ask the other parties, in this case the old parents, for the opinion and how the procedures were carried out. And of course you agreed with the Social Inspection and their opinion. And the public wanted to make sure that everything was okay, that there were no problems and somehow that was it. You're the one who went public with this case first. And that is why it seems extremely inappropriate for you to now tell us that it is inappropriate to discuss this. Of course, we will not normally use any personal data, there are no minimum reasons. It is solely about how the proceedings were conducted. And there have been irregularities in procedures and we are obliged to react as an opposition party. And what do we have? We have parliamentary questions at our disposal. You know what the answers are, both oral and written questions, who is preparing these answers and, more or less, we can never do much to help them. We can take initiatives to change laws. We give them, but unfortunately, because we're investing as an opposition, you don't accept them. We are proposing amendments, once again, because it is once again a day by the opposition, it is not accepted. And when we estimate that the real minister is going through all the irregularities, in some ways he also wants to cover up politically the irregularities that are taking place within the ministry that he is covering, we are, of course, obliged to give the interpretation. In order not to get involved, I am not a lawyer, and I do not know legally these procedures and the relationship between the ministries and the government and the authorities in the composition, I will take the time and read the extracts from the legal opinion. The legal opinion of 2001 is 13. 12th, published by the Institute of Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. The opinion was issued by Prof. Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Prof. Dr. Ivan Kavčič and Prof. Dr. Franc City. And I would like to stress here a few sentences from this opinion that there will be no misunderstandings, what anyone can and should not. "In the parliamentary system, Parliament shall exercise political oversight over the work of the Government. Parliament's political oversight is therefore focused on the functioning of the government and ministers, one of the fundamental features of the parliamentary system. The direct responsibility of the government or the minister can therefore only be exercised through various forms, intensive forms of political oversight, which enable the Government or the Minister to exercise political responsibility and their replacement, such as non-trust, but also interpellation. The individual responsibility of the Minister of Parliament is exercised primarily by interpellation, and we have also done so, “the work of the Minister and the questions of the Member States, and finally it is also reflected in the Minister's right to resign.” It's more than obvious, you didn't do it, and you don't intend to do it. “The Minister shall, inter alia, provide political guidance for the work of the bodies in the composition and supervise their work.” If we look here at a regulation on bodies in the composition, under the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work belongs. Inside this inspectorate is the Social Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already been mentioned today and will also be discussed below. »The Minister performs an instantaneous and hierarchical function in relation to the organs in the composition. The supervisory function in the administrative process, however, represents a feedback flow of information throughout the entire event in a particular part of the ministry. In order to do so, the Minister must have access to all relevant information relating to the work of the body in the composition, otherwise it cannot manage this function by law. No information in the body in the composition can be so confident that the Minister could not have access to it.” So I ask you nicely, any communication about how organs are independent, whatever we are talking about a body within the Ministry, and this is also under the Labour Inspectorate of the Social Inspectorate, which in this case I will say is extremely important. And of course, you're the one who controls their work. It has also been mentioned several times that the profession should do its work. What are you trying to convince us here that the profession is infallible? So much emphasis has been placed on this profession at the board meetings. Look, the profession is confusing, too. But we will not be referring here to the work of the profession, but it is that, as Minister, you are obliged to make sure that work within your department runs in accordance with the law, that procedures are also in the composition of the Ministry and the bodies that belong to your ministry, in accordance with the legislation. And the problem in this case is that the proceedings were not correct and, finally, this was also assessed by the Administrative Court. Now we would really like the answers to why you actually let this happen. If I apply to the words of the Deputy Ombudsman, it was more than obvious that the permanent practice of social work centres was not simply to put forward the application for decision on the Ministry, but to give their own opinion. This was a constant practice, and it was not until then that it was more than obvious, after the Ombudsman’s warnings. In fact, if we look at the dates, we know that the role played by the old mother was essentially formally completed on January 27th. The marriage deadline is two months. This means that the Ministry should issue a decision within these two months, until 27 April. You did not receive this role more than clearly to the Ministry of Social Affairs, because the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec did not carry out its task; it did not forward it. That's why you probably wrote to the Social Work Center yourself after the guardian's warnings to give you this role to hand over. And this was done on April 11th, of course, after all the hands and after the children had actually been put into foster care. And then, in fact, you made a very quick decision in one day, of course, a negative decision. The social inspection ordered by you, the well-respected minister, is more than likely to have gone through all procedures. I find it hard to understand the facts why the Social Inspectorate didn't find this irregularity. They certainly were, indeed, we have two centres here, one is the Centre for Social Work Velenje, because the children had a permanent residence there, and the other is the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which was responsible for the old parents. The old parents gave up their role at the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec. This role was dealt with and, of course, the only ones competent at this centre, while the award of children to unknown foster parents was decided in Velenje. But I believe the centres have communicated with each other. And when the Social Inspection carried out control, I almost cannot believe that I would not have found that the procedures at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec had not actually been completed. And regardless of whether the parents are suitable or not, they have placed the child in foster care. And here we would like to explain why procedures have been carried out in a way that they are. And here we feel that you, as Minister, are responsible. Last but not least, you have Social Inspection in your hands and you can control them at social work centres. You did it. But how can you just so blindly trust the Social Inspection, if on the other hand you had some other facts that you recently got in the media, you got them from a lawyer and also from an old mother, as you mentioned in your own response to the interpretation. Why you so blindly believed and supported the opinion of the Social Inspection, we simply cannot understand. Maybe it's only because you wanted to protect your political associates at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. Finally, we know, because we were able to read this in the media, how much and what happened at the time of the appointment of the director in Slovenj Gradc. How long it took, what the employees at this center recently pointed out was inappropriate and why it was inappropriate. It's not a problem that a person was, I don't know, politically familiar in that environment if, of course, he met all the conditions. But then you were more than obvious in view of what we read in the media, you stood up for this person. She became director, but more than apparently she was not professional enough, and there were certain irregularities. And that's the problem. Politics is kind of, I'll tell you, there's no one else here. The profession pointed out that the person is not suitable for this job because he does not have adequate work experience in the field of social protection. But no. You went through this and today, after a while, the consequences of such a decision have arisen. If you interfered in some way at the time, then it is also right that you bear responsibility for it. Yes, of course, this director has resigned. When? But the mistake was made. The boys were put into foster care by another unknown family. The procedures weren't right, that's the problem. And we haven't heard anything about these procedures today. Nothing at all. No one expects us to talk about, I don't know, exposing the case of why the individual decision was such, but the law is clear, the procedures are clear and it is right to give us the answers to these questions, and to actually explain why, at least to colleagues from SMC who support you. I'm not sure they understand the most why this is the case. As far as your excuses are concerned, the referendums themselves. See, as has already been said, you have been the secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour, you are the second minister, for more than three years, the last three years, and you have simply been saying that due to the referendum no individual legislation has been adopted, it is totally unacceptable. If we look at specific family legislation, which, of course, has an impact on this particular case and was adopted earlier, the procedures would probably run slightly differently. We know that the referendum knows why it was, because, while good solutions have been added to other things that people in the Republic of Slovenia simply do not accept, and we have said this the second time, but you will certainly find a way to do some things differently, but even if we take this moratorium into account the substantive same decisions, it is still with the coming of your mandate in 2013. And you had three years to actually get these things into law. Since 31 May, the proposal for a family code has been publicised. At that time it was probably very quick to put things out. Why didn't you do it two years ago if you knew how important this was? I believe you did. And this timer is really a little strange. But really, if it's for the benefit of the children, why didn't you do it? However, you yourself said at the RTV Slovenia 1 that you feel responsible for drafting legislation. Yeah, then why didn't you do it before, because you had it all in your hands, why didn't you do it? And that's why I'm reading it to you. With what we've heard here today, I don't know, 20 minutes or how much you've been explaining about what you're going to do, how great and nice everything is. Look, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia know. I don't know why in these two months we've received so many e-mails, various letters on Facebook, Twitter about irregularities happening all over Slovenia, absurd things. We can't know if any of this is true or not, but it's not as obvious as you want to represent it here. And what you represented here, all the projects that you intend to do in the future, is very positive, really suitable for one hearing, not to defend that the interpretation is not in place. I don't know, you obviously have no more arguments. Are you avoiding responsibility, or where are the reasons for this? Maybe that's all. You trusted and supported publicly at that famous press conference on April 6th, the extracts and conclusions of the Social Inspection. You had no doubts, regardless of the fact that you were warned on several sides that something did not count. You supported it, you wanted to calm down, everything okay, nothing's going on, everything's going to be what it needs to be. But on the other hand, we know that this Director of Social Inspection was already involved in a case in the past where it was initially said that the child was supposed to be missing, but later it turned out that it was actually a kidnapping, unfortunately it was also happening in Koroška. The prosecution later found that the documents had been forged and that the same director was therefore suspected of abuse of position. We should not simply believe and trust blindly because of this. You have been warned on several sides, Minister, and you have simply supported it. As far as the other procedures were concerned, the guardian said that taking the child into kindergarten itself was inappropriate, that the center could do otherwise, there was no reason, the child was not threatened, his health was not compromised, so that you could decide or decide to do such a serious intervention. To my question whether this is a permanent practice, I have not received an answer. But really, the procedure is catastrophic. As far as the decision on foster care is concerned, I've already told you, and if I have to, I'll say more. Second point at the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec, what was also evident from the findings of the Administrative Court. Yeah, how are things going? Wherever you come in, the first thing they do is put up a stamp with a date to know when you put it in. How could it have happened that the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec did not do this? And not that he didn't do it once, he didn't do it twice. Even when the application was completed. It's another irregularity or, I don't know, deliberate document manipulation, I don't know. As far as you are concerned, your colleague Han and the position of the Social Democrats – interpretation for promotion. Yes, please, come on! What kind of promotions?Oh, my God! You could say that maybe in the end this interpolation really turned out to be something, I don't know, shopping and throwing, I don't know, we could have read everything else in the media. It wasn't a debate about whether it was illegal or not, but it was important somewhere in which the institution's world is going to be where the SD member is going to be, where the SMC is going to be, where Desusa is. It's more than obviously important, and probably something else, I don't know. I fully understand that there is a huge amount of recruitment in this government. But there was no debate as to whether there were irregularities here, and someone had to answer for those irregularities. It doesn't matter to you any more than it obviously does to you. But it's up to the opposition to point that out. Fortunately, interpellation is just one instrument that we have in our hands. However, I find it extremely inappropriate that this is being abused for everything else, as I thought it inappropriate that this explanation of interpolation has been misused to predict some future projects, some vision that will or will not be. Like I said, the time for this is on other content, committees, and it was at the hearing. I already had a feeling that from last night to this morning, I don't know what I missed, that the minister gave up her resignation, that you proposed her again as secretary and that we have a hearing here today. It was just strange to me why it wasn't on the boards before. Really, that's totally inappropriate. It reminds us all the time that we have to stick to the point, but it obviously didn't matter today. We were also told that we were abusing family tragedy. We don't abuse her at all. Who started this in public with a press conference? Dear colleagues from SD, this is your secretary, she first called a press conference. Why she did it, talk to her, she obviously doesn't want to give us that answer. But she's the one who went public with this first, not us. Our interpretation came out later, that's exactly why. Let the last word come from the institutes. Yeah. But what if institutions make mistakes? Do all institutions work in accordance with the law? I don't know, let's ask some citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You're reading stats, numbers? Yeah, we're reading statistics and numbers, and we're reading them. And very interesting on the blog was published one calculation, one of the data that we checked and actually held, about the state of Slovenia. In March 2016 we had 2 million 64 thousand 188 inhabitants, of whom 809 thousand 200 were employed, 614 thousand 66 were retired in 2015 20 thousand, preschool 40 thousand 774, primary school 172 thousand, secondary school 73 thousand 652 enrolled students 80 thousand 798. If we add 10,000 to this 226 unemployed, we get a difference of 143 thousand 471 people. Where do we have these people? Where are these people? We've compiled everything, working, retired, unemployed, children. How can there be a difference? Where are these people, where are they actually taking them? We hear that the number of unemployed is declining all the time. Really?Oh, my God! In particular, the reports highlight – in regions such as Podravska, Pomurje. Why is that? How many of them are working across the border in Austria? You know that. I think it's all about one big manipulation of these numbers. Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate to point out some of the irregularities that have already been media exposed and that the Minister did not want to hear more than clearly. I asked my own question in the middle of last year – a shelter for the homeless in Maribor. Some procedures were now supposed to be under way, but the minister was supposed to be informed in 2014 and nothing happened. That answer to my question is so general that there is not much we can do to help with it. But it was supposed to happen, because others are responsible for clearing these things up. The one I know from the media, again, the head of the shelter is no longer in that job. But it was also about stealing money from those who are no longer living, and taking their social assistance, from the exploitation of Red Cross food packages and the like, that is to say, the exploitation of those who are actually the most socially weak and who should be helped most. And you, Minister, who has always stood up for these people, how to make some kind of notice when you get a notice, it should be a red alarm for you at that moment. There is something to be done, but you obviously don't care so much about those socially weak ones. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u31	Members and Members shall have the floor. As the first Mr Jan Škoberne; Mr Matjaž Hanžek and Mrs Iva Dimic should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates! If until a few hours ago this interpolation, under the indications, was merely unacceptable and inappropriate, it was through an answer — which I now hear through my eyes that it was too extensive and too precise — that it also became completely meaningless. And if there were any dilemmas about whether we need 13 hours of debate today, I think, after the opening presentations, we can find that everything is clear more or less at all points. We could discuss standards, we could discuss models of social policy, and we could not discuss the subject of interpretation. But all the luck that has happened through the presentations has also been that we have substantially expanded this field, allow me to look at the situation of social, family and labour policy and equal opportunities for myself. What is essential in the first place is that, following the decisions of the Administrative Court and even yesterday of the Supreme Court, we can find that all decisions made in the field of interpretation have been followed by only one essential thing, and this is the interest of the children. And if there were any conditions for bringing the children back to the family, I believe that the Administrative and the Supreme Court would no doubt do that. Since there were fewer than 15 child abductions to families in 2015, it is clear, however, how radical the action was and how very serious the situation must have been that the social work centre was also forced to cut down on such a radical measure. It is therefore in some way sad that the Supreme Court cannot also answer to the National Assembly when there is a conflict between the rights and interests of an adult and the rights and interests of the child, absolutely the interests of the child prevail. This must be respected and understood by all state authorities, politicians and the media as well. But the interpretation we are talking about today is based on something else — the right of an adult who is trying to stand up to the interest and rights of a child. I understand that the opposition must carry out its supervisory function; and it is right to ask whether in these proceedings everything has gone as well as it must; whether the Minister has acted as we expect her to do and as her constitutional powers have been conferred upon her. However, I deeply disagree with the fact that the two boys and their extended families have suffered a family tragedy and that we abuse their families in order to conduct a political show, to account for each other and to create a feeling that nothing works in this country because it is far from the truth. One of the Commission's meetings on petitions and human rights, through its proposals, also drew the attention of the leader of the largest opposition group; then in some other circumstances. At the time, the use and abuse of children for the purpose of media accounting was clearly unacceptable. Today I don't know why it's getting. However, all the decisions taken have been taken in the best interest of the children. They were accepted by independent centres for social work. If anyone expected the Minister to be logical in his own way or in God's or in whose will, the will of the street interfered with decisions made by independent and professionally qualified institutions, then the State imagined differently than the liberal or social democratic thought in Parliamentism. What is essential when we assess the responsibility and work of the Minister through this prism is what the Minister has done through her authority. Did she act when she saw that some things were not going right? Of course it is. Even you yourself, the well-respected proposer, have found that they have hurry from the Ministry, that it is obvious that the role that should have been decided long ago has not come. And they decided. So the Minister did not hide when she was aware of the problem, but acted at the level of the system, as her jurisdiction dictated. After years of trying to gather consensus in this political space also to change family policy, to reorganise CSDs and other things, the Family Code came immediately to public attention on the basis of this case, when it finally became clear to all that we needed the Family Code. I sincerely hope that this time it will not be a problem in the definition of a family, but that we will be able to focus on the protection of children, the relations between the weakest and the institutions. But as I stand here, I am already afraid that I will end up here with my colleagues to defend this family code, which you will support for ideological reasons in a negative way. The Minister accepted the Director's resignation when it was found that he did not act in full. The minister performed her supervisory function, sent a social inspection. What do you expect? To violate your constitutional powers and then in the manner of some autonomous dictatorial logic you will applaud and say, it is a strong person who takes all things into his own hands. That's not how it works. The logic that the minister is the one who is feuding the organs in the composition has long since passed; somewhere since the French Revolution. But it's some relationship that's here to protect a man from the power of the state. This relationship must be respected. It is therefore a wrong question, indeed, what the Minister has done not only in this case but also in the past years, but what the Minister could do and what could be achieved by the State and society if it were not to be hindered by unacceptable referendums on human rights, if it did not prevent stumbling in the adoption of key and urgent legislation on family relations, the prevention of domestic violence and, on the basis of ideological grounds, in my opinion also bizarre grounds. Much could be achieved and, above all, the standard of protection of human rights, in this case children, would be significantly higher and today's issues would not be discussed at all. And in the manner of Sunday's Radio Slovenia programme, with congratulations and greetings, we could say that it would be very appropriate if for a moment all those who obstructed these processes put off what they are doing and once thought not only of themselves, but also of other people. If we were to do this objectively and honestly, we would also understand that from the first appearance of the minister's mandate to date, for example, there has been a significant shift in employment, from more than 130 thousand unemployed to 105; with a trend that shows that we can expect even a fall of less than 100,000 unemployed people in this country in the fall. After eight years of one of the worst economic and financial crises that has affected Europe. And some of the heroes will find themselves and will say that these are global trends. Yeah, they're global trends. Then you can go watch the numbers you love. An active employment policy, a hundred million euros, from Janez Janša's government to this point, a doubling of people's involvement from 11 000 to 22 will quickly determine where the difference in employment begins. Public works, doubling funds, strengthening local environments, also supporting the non-governmental sector, because something, say developed countries such as Britain, generate even more percentages of social product; we are significantly lagging behind here, but we have doubled it. Job training – 14,000 people were involved in this process, of which more than 70% of these jobs have been maintained, according to recent findings. These are not global trends, these are the actions of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities; these are actions made up of a team led by Anja Kopač Dark. Moving on, hiring people with disabilities. When the government of John Janša ended, a new law on their employment was needed. Today, 59% of people with disabilities are employed by the government at the time. This is also a social policy, but it needs to be understood, it needs to be invested. These are not global trends, this is not happening. Social entrepreneurship – more than 3 thousand involved, more than 220 jobs are created for those most vulnerable – not vulnerable, but most vulnerable – so to speak unemployable. Not to mention, for two decades, the student and the student population worked through the student work without even getting rights from the title of their work. Today, more than €53 million per year are paid into cash registers, while on average they get on average three months of work. Even my generation didn't have that privilege. And all this at a time of crisis, when social standards and standards of solidarity had to be cut down most. The Minister, who is being intertwined today, was on the ground in one way or another, even when Borut Pahor’s government, as State Secretary, advocated a minimum wage increase. Imagine where they would be if you listened to the other side and even shut it down, or if you didn't pick it up. The percentage of poverty in this country would be significantly higher. None of the fears that everything will fail has come true; but the standard of men has risen. And another nice one for all neoliberals. The burden of legal burden, more than 360 million this amounts to at annual level, more than 80 solely on the basis of changes in labour law. More than 165 simplification measures, for unloading. Little advanced things to talk about pension reform when there is no problem yet, but to realize that demographics will lead us there once. Not when this is opportunistic, but to avoid and say that the next government will be; today, when this is difficult. Decent work, searching for consensus between employers and trade unions, to overcome the conflict between capital and work – this is what the minister does. It is not interpelled because of the unacceptable content of interpolation, but because it actually works too well because it enforces a social democratic principle and does not allow the constitutionally assured social state and solidarity of this society to be affected by the destructive neoliberal logic. And at the end of the day, to all of us, the Holy Family, colleague Dimic, you were interested in the resolution on family policy, the Government's normative plan, tabled in September, will be adopted in January 2017. As you know, this is an extremely difficult area because it is difficult to find consensus in this society. Hitting where we've been broken more than once would have been a mistake. It is important to seek consensus, and if we are not looking for consensus in family politics, but imagine that we have the right to be a roller coaster, then I think we are making a big mistake. And the minister made the right decision not to be a roller, but to try to overcome divisions and try to work for the good of the people. Not to mention the release of child allowances; 1.2 million euros for deficit jobs and at the end of the day also the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have managed to negotiate as many as a quarter of the European funds in this financial perspective for all these areas. I could add a lot more. The obvious lie of a fellow Mesca who is not in the hall again and will probably come to an explanation of the voice at the end, nor will I answer. If I were to go to this level, I would have to read at least three books by the next meeting in order to get back to the standard I want for this National Assembly. The Minister, myself and our Group of Members will not, of course, support this interpretation. I sincerely wish you all the best and look forward to your further results! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, representative of the proposer, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I really need to respond to the comments of my respectable colleague Škobernet, and that is why I also wanted to take a call. As far as the answer by the Minister was concerned, there was no reply. We did not receive an answer from the Minister today to the indications we wrote in the interpretation. The minister said everything else, which is not the subject of today's interpolation, is not the content of the interpolation. But we heard absolutely nothing about the answer, which is why we highlighted it. As regards the Supreme Court’s decision, what this decision refers to, it referred only to a provisional order for children to be seconded to their parents without delay. And that was rejected by the court. Why did it say no? Because they are assessing, as is the case with the first degree, that the transfer of children would be inappropriate, simply because of this. All of this remains as decided by the Court in the first instance, and the Supreme Court has not handed down the matter. The timing of this judgment and then the spinning of the Ministry on the subject of the Supreme Court is also very interesting. Dear Scoberne, you said - the will of the street. Who's supposed to be the will of the street for you? Who are you addressing with the will of the street? Do you mean those people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who were then in front of the Ministry of Labour who expressed support for the old parents? Are you referring to this civil initiative and the people who gathered there? That's the will of the street?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, these people live in the immediate vicinity where old parents live; this is not the will of the street. This is obviously not only true for SD, but also for other coalition parties, that any gathering is now prohibited. How can you even call it the will of the street! It's totally unacceptable, sorry, really. And if you've been heard, if this civil initiative has heard you, I believe you've hurt them deeply. Then you talk about respect, about rights, about social threats, how important it is that we have a social state; but do not let people say, express their opinions, please. As far as the role in foster care is concerned. You said the Minister acted by calling the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. Yeah. When did the Minister act? April 11th. When was the legal deadline for the Ministry to decide? March 27th. For two months, it was time to give the Ministry a role in decision-making, first of all, to the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. And by 27 April, the Ministry should have decided, but it didn't. I believe that because the Ombudsman warned that it should be decided by a decision, the Ministry then called on the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec; but these are the illegalities found by the Administrative Court, an administrative inspection. The Ministry didn't do anything. As far as employment is concerned, you stressed – active employment policy, public works, how much money has now doubled here compared to before. Your Honour, they had to. How many were unemployed before the crisis at the end of 2008? Less than $60,000. How many do we have today? More than 110 grand. Yes, it is normal that more resources are needed to do so, but we still have substantially too many unemployed. I am not assessing and not saying that these programmes are wrong, but I am just saying that the pure logical consequence of this is, given the increased number of unemployment and the period you yourself have mentioned, that we have so much more resources. But as far as the tender for scholarships for deficient professions is concerned, if you think of the one who went according to the principle of First Coming, first grinds. And if you've been near Ljubljana and you've submitted a role before, you could have gotten one. What was later abolished. But again one of the calls made by this ministry. That any initiative and amendment to the law we receive from the Ministry of Labour in this National Assembly should be dealt with in a short and urgent manner. On the other hand, you point out how important NGOs are, how important social dialogue is. But when you shorten procedures, you do not allow a sufficiently long public hearing. And that's what happens at this department all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In view of everything that has been said and expressed in the views of the Group of Members, it may be increasingly clear how wide and demanding is the portfolio that I am leading with all responsibility in my best conscience, in accordance with my conscience and even in my best interests. The assemblies that have now been exposed are many, only part of the content of the interpretation that has been exposed and to which in the twenty pages of the response we have responded very precisely to the initiators of the interpretation, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as to all Members and Members of the National Assembly, whom I am also defending today in accordance with the Constitution. Still, a few more words may apply about how the procedures run and what the powers are. As I said in the introduction, social work centres are public welfare institutions. These are not the bodies of the Ministry of Labour. In accordance with our legislation, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is separate and independently governed by procedures. The Minister must not interfere with their work; even more so, Article 93 of the Social Protection Act also makes it very clear that social workers are committed to professional silence and must not disclose publicly, as has been repeatedly called upon by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities in the National Assembly. So, there was a violation of the Social Protection Act. In this case, he carried out most of the procedures of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje and part of the procedures of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. It was about managing administrative matters that were separate. The Minister may, in accordance with his or her legal powers, not interfere. The supervisory role of the minister is, however, if there is any doubt that he will, in accordance with the law, call for an inspection operating within the Ministry. The body composed of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the work within which the Social Inspectorate operates. The Law on Inspection makes it very clear in Article 4 that, as a fundamental principle, inspectors are independent in the performance of inspection tasks under their powers, and are committed to determining the actual situation and are able to assess in their own way how they will obtain the necessary information. As Minister, I imagine it's not my job to ask the Inspector to narrow down the findings, as it might have been, on the basis of a phone call or anyone else has been requested. The social inspection is to highlight the time stamp, 25. 3. I was on the side of my grandmother and grandfather's knowledge of the event in Slovenj Gradc. Until this date – you can tell me that I did not make a decision – I did not know what was going on until this date, because this is not my responsibility, because it is the responsibility of social work centres. 25. 3. Grandma sent an e-mail to my address and based on this e-mail I immediately, it was Monday, Easter holiday, Tuesday was a request, which was Friday, 25. 3. I remember exactly what we called the social work centre to get us to know what was going on. In accordance with my powers, I have asked them to say what is going on; absolutely within their powers. And based on that, we're 1. 4. Call for social inspection to carry out its task – control. And six. 4. The press conference was only because the right to information is also a public right. My task is supervisory and also the right to information. And if you take a good look at the magnetogram, that's when I took the records and the findings of the social inspection. In any way, then you or anyone else interprets that I have covered, not covered, one way or another, is your opinion, of course, to which you are entitled. I have acted in accordance with my authority. And there's always doubting the professional decisions and telling me that I'm defending the profession. I can't otherwise act like I believe in this country's institutions. And I have to believe that until it turns out that it's wrong in formal procedures. And you say that the old parents had no other than the street; interesting. A number of administrative and judicial proceedings are under way following this procedure. Complaint for recognition of the status of the party in the proceedings. It's up to the Ministry. You're talking about us not admitting status. I hear we've got him. All the procedures run and also the updating and behaviour of what is happening, because the process is alive and happening, is running. Request for the lifting and repealing of the supervisory rights decision, request for a decision to apply for authorisation to carry out the fostering activity. You're saying I didn't decide. 25. 3. I was aware of this, before that it was at the Centre for Social Work and 4. 4. I received a request from the Ministry for a decision. And this one was issued within the legal time limit of seven days. At the same time, because of political pressure in this case, I asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to discharge my responsibilities as a second-degree body, because there is a very clear separation of organs in this country; also because proceedings are taking place at the first and second stages. You often say we're covering the decision of social work centres. I don't know. The request was issued for the transfer of local competences regarding the determination of contacts at the initiative of old parents' lawyers. The Ministry admitted this, transferred it to the social work centre, which they highlighted, that's Šentjur. The right to contact as one of the fundamental rights of old parents and in the context of family life, recognition of family life has been tried immediately, with several attempts; at the Centre for Social Work of Velenje and later at the Centre for Social Work of Šentjur. Today, according to the legislation that exists in our country, after reporting to the media, it is up to the court to decide, even if it is not possible to agree on such an important matter as contact, which is the fundamental right of children. And that's what the court is supposed to decide today. And thank God in this country we have the secrecy of the proceedings before the family court, and I hope we will not make a decision on how. When you say you have not abused, I would like to remind you of your interpretation of the lady's quotations, which reveals very personal and intimate information about the family. According to the statement, it is likely that the competent authorities of that country will also monitor whether this was in accordance with the law and whether the right to privacy of minors has been violated. There's surveillance at the Social Work Center, like the others. By no means can we say that things are not going according to the law, in accordance with the rule of law. And interfering with the procedures that are open is something other than an attempt to influence all these institutions that decide. If the proceedings were completed, completed, then we could talk. But no, you will speak and quote a decision of the Administrative Court in the first instance, relativize the Supreme Court ruling, in short, as we are accustomed to. But in this assembly and I, as Minister, will respect the court's decisions, I will not go into the interpretation of what the court at first stage or the Supreme Court thought was what it was. The fact is that, unfortunately, we all forget where there is a child's benefit here. Where's the child's benefit here? Do we know all about this family that we can judge? Is it not right for the professional institutions of that country to decide in the proceedings under way? I believe that because otherwise I don't know how we're going to work tomorrow. Social work centres, like all institutions in this country, are not perfect; no institution is perfect. It is important whether there are enough brakes and fuses in this system. All these procedures that are under way today show that the system is working. If something's wrong, it's a court of law, it's an administrative dispute, and it's up to the court to decide. Social Work Center, if we're going to the foster care institute now, or maybe a custody facility, or maybe a retirement. In accordance with the Marriage and Family Relations Act, a minor child is placed under guardianship which may be a relative if there is no possible conflict of interest. In this case, it seems that the decision was made and the social work centre decided — because it is their responsibility to decide — for the guardian to be an independent person. Why he chose to do so is not contrary to the law, but he did so because it is in their jurisdiction. As far as parental rights are concerned, that's for the court to decide. Why it was not triggered, and according to the information I have, the lawyer of old parents demanded it; and the court rejected that request. Because there are reasons, things have to go there too. This is also happening and is a question of why the Law on Marriage and Family Relations does not state that the automatic withdrawal of parental rights is in this case. However, the father was deprived of the right to care for his children because he cannot enforce it. But that's all in the process, too, and others are responsible for it. It's up to the courts, not me, not you, not people, no matter what they know. I feel for Grandma and Grandpa, I believe you feel cheated, I believe all of this; but it is not my responsibility to say through all the institutions, but now I think that they are the only ones who are right and we take things the way they and the lawyer want. We don't forget, what you're quoting in interpretation is the vision of one side. The lawyer's an old-timer's lawyer. I just wish it was all for the greatest benefit of the children. But it's not up to me, and I hope that you, the interpellationers, decide what's best for the children. In this case, however, the security guards shown in the system are clear, and the judicial branch of the authority decides. Now I'm going to go ahead with the second reading, which is also in the interpretation, which is an indication of political recruitment, one way or another. All personnel are subject to the law. The law lays down the conditions for the appointment of directors and also members of the founding council. However, it will not seem to be just about Slovenj Gradec, where the director in Slovenj Gradec took his responsibility and offered his resignation, and so you do not simply mention in the interpretation if I quote you: "Responsibility and involvement in the politicization of the Centre for Social Work in the case of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec and the responsibility for the consequences of the cover-up of the mistakes of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which was responsible for deciding on the role of parental care." Two mistakes. The Centre for Social Work was not in charge of decision-making, he had to issue an opinion and mediate it; the Director assumed his responsibility. There are two errors in one sentence, so you could quote most of the interpolation. But as for the manning and the readings you're sending me, I might be able to show you one letter that I received from the 14th. 5. In 2013, when I took up my mandate as Minister, namely by the Community of Social Institutions, a revision of the appointment of members of the Councils of the Institute, where I am asked that in the last year, namely in the year of the Government of Janez Janša, public institutions have been confronted with an increase in general practice in the appointment of members of the Council of Public Institutions home to the elderly, who were mainly party members. Education is the greatest assurance, and I can give you all an insight. On the basis of this letter, we have appointed a committee to review all appointments, find numerous violations that no applications, CVs have been added; and on this basis we have decided to make a significant change. Public calls are public, on the side of the Ministry of Labour. And another very important change, we have changed that it is no longer necessary for members of the world to have at least secondary education, but at least higher education. Public calls shall be public and any person who fulfils the conditions may be a member. In my view, we are allowed to cooperate with the Constitution and to be members of political parties. And I don't think I have the right to ask people to tell me whose party they are or aren't. But it's nice to hear in the National Assembly, how eyewitnesses fly and see always only one side, just themselves, because it's easier to always refer arrows to others. As for the Family Code and the unfinished work in this area, I might recall that the Family Code began to be drawn up in 1999, it was under the mandate of the government of Janez Janša. At that time, Minister Drobnič, I also wrote in response to the interpellation, opened the debate on this issue. Officially in the system, 20. 4. 2007, if I recall correctly, my predecessor, Dr. Svetlik, put the Family Code into public debate. In this Family Code, you have defined in your notes how the family community is understood; I read to you because you are reading this to me today. "The family does not represent the living community of a grandfather and grandmother with a minor grandson or granddaughter, or even the adult relative's community with a minor relative, even though the adult relative cares individually and permanently for the minor, because there is no right or duty of survival between non-parent-child relatives under our law. The caregiver, however, has the same rights and responsibilities as parents in the context of parental care, except for the duty of survival. Nevertheless, such a living community does not represent a family within the meaning of the provisions of this Code." And then Minister Šturm in his opinion of 5. 6. 2006 absolutely opposes the transfer of decisions from social work centres to the courts. Why? It notes that "the transfer of powers brings great and additional burdens on the courts and thus adds to the extension of the judicial proceedings at national level, which is in direct contradiction with the Government's programme for the correction of judicial arrears by 2010. In addition, the adoption of such solutions would bear additional financial burdens for the state budget. For these reasons, the Ministry of Justice opposes the proposed transfer of power from the social work centres to the court." At the time of the largest economic growth, the proposal for the Family Code was sent for inter-resortation by Minister Cotmanovo and withdrawn without justification from the September 2007 system. So much for how we don't know how to make sure we don't want to. And another very important fact. I believe that Members and Members of Parliament are well aware that, if there is a law in the proceedings in the State Assembly with the same content, it is not possible to place the law in the parliamentary procedure with the same content. Such an example is the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds or the Law on Social Protection, where you are making an amendment to the question of succession and branding. Your marriage is suspended until the law of succession is completed. Unfortunately, if you remember now all that was happening with regard to the Family Code, the content process ended in February this year. And if you are addressing me with questions why not; it is right that you are so right, because you are Members of the National Assembly, that you should also tell these facts. And if you tell me not to move back, as I said from the beginning, the Family Code at the time of the biggest crisis, it's only today that you can see how great the result has been. Reaching at the time of the fall of 8% of GDP that we agreed within the government, which you failed at the time of the greatest growth, that we provided funds for this transfer of courts, that it was agreed to go to the Justice Procedure Act, the Unjust Procedure Act, that the Courts Act would be adopted; that in a dialogue that lasted a long time, we tried to hear your arguments about the family. That is why the Family Code eventually amended the definition, it was not an equalization of marriage, it was a partnership, it was an equalization. And you will not believe, today, 2016, in the Republic of Slovenia there is the same law – the Law on Partnerships. In the same way, he deals with the same sex as he did in the Family Code. But no, we had to destroy all of this because the benefit of the children — no. At that time, the question of the rights of same-sex women was a matter of destruction for everyone in this country. Because of the minority, because of the rights of minorities, you have managed to bring them all down. And today before me, you tell me why not. Because I believed today — if you're telling me that this is my ideological definition — I believe that all children in any family have the right to equal rights. And that's all this is about. And then I hear ye on my right tell me that I always regulate the rights of the same-sex. On my left the United Left make me see that I do nothing. Look, this is the reality of this place. And if we keep going this way, because in fact, it's the end of what you're going to say. I'm one against all of you who thinks I'm not enough. Yeah, I know, there's so much work in this department if there were probably five of us ministers, and if everyone covered only social, only family, it would be hard to work. And in the government of Janez Janša, we also adopted the area of gender equality, and it was dedicated to us. And now the minister's covering this. And then it's obvious to him that he doesn't do enough, however we turn. I have not adopted a resolution because I am dealing with a resolution on gender equality. In short, whatever I do, it's not enough. Basically, my conscience is that I can stay and that I know that every day I do what I can and can do in a given coalition situation. Secondly, it is important what citizens and citizens, voters and voters end up thinking; that is all that matters. With regard to other projects about which there were many words, perhaps with regard to employment. I agree with you that it would probably be great if we had even less unemployed, but still, the data is what they are. The unemployment rate is falling. Today, as of Monday, I've had data from the Bureau, 101,000 103 unemployed. Yeah, it's still too much, but it's falling. It went from 130,000 to 130,000. And you'll say, no, because everybody's moving out, because everything's wrong. And I'll tell you that in December 2004 the number of employed was 799 thousand 954, March 2016, this is Sursa's data, almost 809 thousand 200. These are the facts. We all probably agree that it would be better if there were more, but these are facts that you cannot say are not true. Secondly, the leverage of the Ministry of Labour to help people is an active employment policy. At the time of the greatest growth in youth unemployment, we accepted the Youth Guarantee, negotiated additional money, and we are one of the few countries that has negotiated that guarantees are valid for up to 29 years. If you think it's easy and it just comes from itself, it's not true. We have worked hard with the support of all European Members, we have worked hard and we have won. And we used these resources to make the results visible. Youth unemployment has fallen. Yeah, there's more to be done. It is important to ask what is the transition from education to the labour market. The problem is deficits. Yeah, that's what we are. We've introduced scholarships for deficient professions for the first time. But you'll say we screwed up the invitation. But again, if they knew the competences, the call was made by the Fund for the Development of Personnel and Grants in accordance with the law that was adopted and sent by the citizens and citizens to the National Assembly by the Government of Janez Janša. As Minister, I only participated in the hearing in Parliament. And as soon as the tender problem turned out, we joined in amending the law. No, but I haven't done enough. Then you will say that 2014 was a problem for public works. Again, I am responsible for what the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an independent institution, has done. It's my fault. At the same time, you do not say that in the mandate you led – there was the same problem, 2012 we were in a severe crisis in this country – we gave the public works 19 million 488. We have doubled to 27 million 675; 2014 to 38 million 800, 2015 to 35 million, this year is the 36 million. If you think these millions can be negotiated within the government, within fiscal consolidation, you're wrong. I understand everyone would want more, but every single thing has two sides. Another very important fact. When we talk about valuations, you point out the figure of 396 000, cited by the Ministry of Finance, which has charged the costs of valuations, as the legislative procedure has set your hour very high, minus the fact that this was part of the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. The fact is that it cost us to set up a system, yes, it did matter if we took 200 000 euros. And to correct you because you have last year's data, you mentioned 158 000 today; it is already 200 000 euros in income from this title. It doesn't even matter that much. Yes, it is important that we are effective, that we do not spend; but you cannot compare the one-off cost with some running thing, and the fact that it was logic Every work counts; that also people who have no other option have paid contributions through personal supplemental work. Yeah, it would be better if we had a paid employment relationship, that would be true. But on the other hand, the fact that the social state is based on intergenerational solidarity and on the willingness of all of us to pay in these systems. And it is important for each individual to contribute to the common good so that he can have some of it. And that's the logic of every job counts. In the same way, the student work you didn't mention agreed with all the actors. If you think they're all simply and happy to agree that they'll get less on the bill, no. The students showed a high degree of solidarity with society as a whole and agreed to a minimum income, minimum hourly rate. Second, they contribute to the pension and disability allowance, to the health allowance, and they also have rights that will not ultimately be irrelevant. But you don't mention it. Debt cancellation – for some fiascos. Do you know why I believed in this project? Because I believe we can't regulate in society in a way that we command. We accept the law here, we command all companies – you all write it down, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it, you do it. I believed and the whole attempt went in this direction, with the agreement of all of us, that at a voluntary level we had achieved that all of the municipalities and that 120 of the municipalities voluntarily had taken a completely voluntary approach to this project, despite the fact that the number was not such. I wish I didn't get it wrong. Nevertheless, a million 900 000 euros were written off. If you look at the data, the Municipality of Ljubljana has written off 129 000 € 561, the Municipality of Maribor 70 000, Nova Ljubljana has written off 227 000, the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Velenje 110 000, the Municipal Company Velenje 71 000. We've written down almost 80 grand, too. What I signed was 600 euros per person. I don't know if that makes any sense. Whatever we do in this country, I understand that the criticism is that it could be better; but you can't say that nothing was done. [[…]] And it was voluntary, we didn't force anyone in the country. And I believe that's the basis for our operation. My assessment is that we are basically here, as we are, because we have broken trust among all, by forcing and pointing at each other, we will not achieve any of this, so we will not be any better, but we must all try to work together. This is the only way we will move this country, especially for the sake of citizens and citizens, forward. There's probably a lot more. I'll check in later. But what I'm trying to say is that I'm aware that it's a really tough resort. Among other things, the issue of poverty, the issue of the problems facing our people, is difficult. For every individual facing this problem, I can’t even imagine how they feel. But not because we know how to appreciate what we have and look to the better, we will not do so by saying — everything that is is worthless. This country can't do anything. We make our transfers, internationally comparable, a lot. We have our maternity care, our parental protection, our father's leave, which you say is a fiasco. The Social Protection and Family Benefits Act is a fiasco for you. Fathers, however, will have 15 days of extra paternity leave. But in the end, it is a debate where I want us all to look at the same objective at the end of this debate. And in the end, the minister, whoever he is, listens to you. I am pleased that, following the review, the Social Democratic Party has supported 34 of the laws we have tabled by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs; you voted in favour of 14 and only 6 against because it is considered that we are working together to try to solve things and to cooperate creatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! I must say, you are well aware of how to redirect the content of today's interpretation to other issues and to the rest of the activities that you are doing. True, I agree that your ministry covers an extremely wide area; but today we are here because of the interpretation that you received because of the irregularities that have occurred in the seizure of the Korean boys to the old parents. Let me read again what I am at the very beginning about the relations between the ministries and the government. I will first read Article 18 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: the Minister, in accordance with the policy adopted, leads and represents the Ministry, gives political guidance for the work of the Ministry and its bodies, supervises their work, issues regulations and other acts within the competence of the Ministry and the authorities in its composition, and performs other tasks laid down in the law or other regulation. And what I have already quoted from the 2001 opinion from the legal opinion The relationship between the Ministry and the body in the composition made by the Institute of Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, I will read only one piece, which is extremely important: "The supervisory function in the administrative process represents the feedback flow of information throughout the entire event in a particular part of the ministry. For this purpose, the Minister shall have access to all relevant information relating to the work of the body in the composition." This means that any excuse that the Minister could not or had no individual information is superfluous. It must have them in order to be able, in accordance with the law, to exercise the supervisory function of the authority in the composition of the Ministry. We're talking about a social inspection, which is part of the Labour Inspectorate. As far as the procedures are concerned, what the Minister pointed out was the Minister's knowledge on 25 March and then called the centre and asked what was going on around the case. Children were taken from their parents on March 30th. If she asked at the time, it was more than obvious, she could have demanded at that time and could have issued an order within a legal period of two months. Then why didn't she do it? They probably told her when the application was made to the social work centre and from which date the deadlines were 60 days. I guess. If not her, however, this should be determined by a social inspection, which, as she said, has also been a proper exceptional inspection immediately. But this inspection, at least as to what was exposed to at the press conference, merely checked the documents of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje; it did not wonder what the opposite side was saying, what the old parents were saying; and it believed that what was written in those documents was only right and correct. And despite the fact that she was aware that some of the procedures related to foster care were under way by her old mother, she did not wonder why. She obviously knew the procedures were wrong. And then she had time to urinate and actually within the marriage period, what should have been done; but she did not do so. It is argued that the judicial branch does not decide. Wait a minute, we know we have three branches of authority, you are the executive branch of the government – ministers. What does this mean that the executive branch can do everything wrong; then the judicial branch will be the one to decide; and is there no reason for anything to happen?Oh, my God! I don't know why we need an executive branch of power. Total absurdity. How can he even say something like that?Oh, my God! Yes, it is right that we have a judicial branch of power, but the procedures must be correct and clear within the ministries and bodies that are within the Ministry. The argument that the judicial branch should then decide to do so is totally unacceptable. As far as human resources are concerned. Yes, it is true, it is probably not a question of which party a party belongs to, but I believe that as a visible representative of the Social Democrats, she knows what are the visible representatives and presidents of individual regions after Slovenia within the party. But that wouldn't be a problem if it wasn't for the political decision and the individual candidate's appointment, then there was an irregularity. And, of course, we ask ourselves that question. At that time, the profession, which you are giving a great deal of attention to, pointed out that the director was not professionally qualified; no one disputed that he was a member of a political party, but that he was professionally inappropriate because he did not have the appropriate work experience required of the other candidates. But all of this crashed, he was named. And it probably wouldn't have been wrong if the procedures had run as they should if there had not been an irregularity. And now that we know about someone that they've been politically staffed, that they haven't had the required expertise and there's been an irregularity, and then probably someone here has to be responsible for it. Politics can't just beat the shit out of people. I don't understand you, on the one hand you always say – I stand behind professional decisions, it's the profession that decides; but on the other hand, as a politician, you overpower the profession. These facts that you're referring to don't fit best. On the other hand, you also have a Modern Centre Party in the coalition, which has been much more open in public institutions, at least at the beginning, and has even published on its website if anyone will apply for a member of any institution, please inform us. That's a good one, too. And then talk about political or non-political personnel, please. I understand that the Social Democrats are a party that has been in existence for some time now; you have been new and perhaps someone a little foolish that he has done any of this, but this has actually been and we must not ignore it. And if we just look at what the media released yesterday, what you're deciding about, whether you're in favour or against interpretation, there's no talk of content, it's just a speech about the staffing in which the institution is going to be, whether there's going to be a member of SD, SMC or a member of Desus. It's more than obvious that it's important, and that's how things work out for you. As far as the Family Code is concerned, I'm just going to say that you put the content of the Family Code at stake because of what you say, minorities. Ask yourself if it was worth it back then.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Hanzek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Let me begin by pointing out that the arguments in the interpolation have not convinced me at all. I am even opposed to some, but of course this does not mean that I agree and support the other work of the Minister. Above all, I am in some areas, I could say, at the same wavelength as the Minister. That's exactly what they're reading, let's say ideological questions, it's called the Family Code, the relationship to LGBT, but these are liberal themes. It's a very important topic for me, but it's not enough. The question I find most problematic here, both the Ministry of Labour, the family and so on, especially the governments – here I will not think about who is more responsible for such a policy – is the issue of social policy, the attitude towards poverty, the attitude towards unemployment, the issue of equality; and I would like to say something about it. In Slovenia, although we often hear how much we give for social assistance, social protection, we give 18% of gross domestic product. The European average is 20 and over, for example, Austria has 22. Here's one of the problems. The next problem is the situation of pensioners. Certainly Minister Anja Kopač Dark is responsible for this situation, as in 2012 the State Secretary in the Government of President Pahor and Minister Svetlik were willing to force the pension reform in any way; and this reform, which was unfortunately stricter than the government of Janšev, adopted. While the problem of unemployment is seen to be decreasing, it is beautiful, but it is declining mainly due to economic growth, but there is an increasing problem of long-term unemployment, the unemployment of older people, the unemployment of hard-working people. The next thing that really bothers me is a story about state pensions and a protective allowance. I think that state pensions were one good thing that was adopted a long time ago, which did not burden the state budget much, but did a great deal to maintain the dignity of older people, so that they did not need to jump on institutions every so long, to extend and ask for social assistance. When state pensions were abolished, this affected 16,000 people, mostly rural women who had not received any pensions. At the same time, the protective allowance was reclassified as a social benefit, which had to be partially recovered after death. As a result, the number of recipients decreased from 48 000 from 2011 to 10,000. In short, nearly 50,000 people have been affected and, of course, structurally precisely those who should be helped by the state. On the one hand, the developing regions, on the other hand older ones, especially women. Poverty among the elderly is also due to pension reforms, which during the six years when Minister Anja Kopač Dark or Minister or Secretary of State were very busy. The next problem is personal assistance and long - term care. This is also a major problem because people with disabilities do not have the right to a personal assistant. Instead of a systemic solution, the Ministry shall tender three-year projects and provide a subsidy lower than the minimum wage. At that time, the Minister drafted two laws which are discriminatory and socially unfair. Discriminatory — disabled persons over 65 years of age do not have the right to a personal assistant if they become disabled after 65 years of age and so on. I just want to say a few more words about another topic, with which I am almost nothing to be satisfied, that is to say the last three letters in the Ministry, the issue of discrimination. However, in Slovenia we still do not have an independent institution dealing with the issue of discrimination, protection against discrimination. I admit that the work of this ministry and the Minister is very broad, but this part of the occupation or prevention of discrimination is the most discriminated against. Just four points, I will not explain: there is no suspension of reasonable adjustment as a form of discrimination, there is an unregulated right to personal assistance, there is no right to adapted communication and support for the deaf and there is a lack of minimum standards for preventing discrimination in access to goods and services. So far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the word to prepare Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mag. Tanya Zink. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, she's not with us right now. I think it is important to stress and ask why in our country, especially the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, there is a practice that must first come to a tragic situation in the country, in order to act quickly. This is what I am saying and asking because I have already referred to the regulation of the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, which is a fundamental law, by which such stories or cases, which are the basis of today's interpretation, should be tried to prevent. A year ago, we warned about what needs to be done, how to ensure it; but nothing has practically happened this year. We also cautioned the Minister all the time that it would be most appropriate or most orderly for the decision-making power to put children in foster care to be transferred from CSD to the jurisdiction of the courts to be heard in this national assembly and not even in the ministry. Now you're thinking about this case. Of course, it is a matter of how long this will take if we look again for some systemic solutions in this area by the end of the mandate, if this mandate is, of course, by 2018, it will not be. Nevertheless, I think it is important not only to talk about disorderly or disorderly family policies in the country but also to mention the state of poverty. As Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, she has full responsibility for how poverty indicators move in the country. The fact that poverty has deepened for two years now, that it is becoming permanent, deeper, and that individuals or entire families cannot climb up the ladder and get rid of poverty, requires the minister’s response to what it will or will be; today we have listened to what has been done. However, everyone, including the statistical office, emphasises that poverty is deepening in the Republic of Slovenia. Minister, the rich are still richer, the poor are still poorer, the medium layer is virtually gone, and there is an increasing proportion of workers who receive minimum wages among the poor. That's what I warned you about today. Among the poor there are increasing numbers of workers who receive minimum wages; and in our independent Slovenia we have poor employees. It seems unheard of to have poor employees in the country; and here is the full responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. What is reported daily by the media and what has already been pointed out by the ministry, I think here the area of employee abuse, and that in this national assembly despite the questions raised by the Member States, I still have not received an answer as to how many Slovenian companies employ workers through employment agencies and which companies are doing so. If we have this list, then we also have the solution to establish control and control over these companies and the situation of these poor, abused employees in these companies; because there are increasing numbers of employees in companies that do not actually receive a minimum wage and do not have any advocate to turn to. The work inspector also said that there were no suitable grounds. And part of the foundation may have recently changed, but not sufficiently. The inspector must have the authority and must step into such a company and see what the situation of the employees there is. Once again, I want and believe that we need to establish a list in Slovenia where people are employed through employment agencies. The saddest part is that after 40 years of working in our country, employees cannot even afford a home for the elderly. I'm talking about that after 40 years of full-time work, they don't have enough pension for basic care in nursing homes. I am talking about the poor social picture of the oldest, the help of the needed citizens and citizens. Everyone should work, especially the Ministry, to ensure at least 40 years of full-time pensions in order to satisfy at least some basic adjustment in the nursing home. I'm talking about about 600 euros, as much as it costs some basic care in nursing homes. In the New Slovenia Group, we listen when we visit homes for the elderly, people talk mainly about how they have worked their whole lives and now they do not deserve enough so that with their past work they can somehow have hidden at least basic costs. And this speaks of the fact that social policy in our country is not right; that we have people who are poor, increasingly sink into this poverty and simply do not come out of it. Today it has also been heard, and I also have to touch the big problem, the black dots for our country. We always hear that the ZUJF has destroyed or further weakened the social state and the social weaknesses. When we adopted him in this national assembly, I personally wanted such a singing economic growth to come as soon as possible. And now, in Slovenia, we have more than 2.5% of economic growth for two years, which has been linked to certain social adjustments. But under the leadership of the Ministry and Minister Anje Kopač Mrak, this notorious Public Finance Balance Act has not been abolished; it has not been eliminated as it was foreseen in 2012 for the introduction of this law. What's more, you've gone a step further, you've gone a step further. You have retained the ZUJF until the growth of the work activity is 1.3 percentage points. You have practically extended the measures of the ZUJF indefinitely, until further because such growth is not expected for at least ten years. And you're saying how much and what you've done, how many deficit scholarships you've given, how much the children's allowance has been raised by individual tax classes; but on the other hand, you haven't said that you've simply disabled all those who want to contribute to demography in this country. Why? Keep child support, keep maternity benefits – it seems to me that this sawing is the branch that we all sit on; even more so, those who are going to retire in 20, 30 years, because there are simply no children, no children, and no decent pensions. Madam Minister, I think the time has come when poverty has deepened so much in Slovenia that it is necessary to resign or replace you in this ministry; and that there is a more social policy to the term. Today it has been said that you have no influence on the autonomy and professionally trained institutions such as CSD and probably employment institutions. However, in relation to the case of the Korean boys, the Minister stated publicly in the Turnout of RTV Slovenia that they have long observed a lack of knowledge of the Administrative Procedure Act in CSD workers, which will result in additional training. As a minister, however, she should know that the examination of the Administrative Procedure Act is a condition for the employment of a public official at CSD. And to itself declare that there is probably a lack of knowledge of the Administrative Procedure Act and, on the other hand, that CSDs are independent and professionally qualified institutions, there are some contradictions here. To be a world in family politics – I want all of them to understand what family policy means for the future of our people. There was a speech that there was a need to approach the resolution, strategy and resolution of family policy with all the sensitivity; not as a roller. Once again, Madam Minister, you have after you two failed referendums, which were a roller of family policy in this country, a roller for children's rights. It has been said that the United Left requires something else on the right that it is difficult to coordinate all these policies, the interests of political parties; let me say that we are as united as we are in family policy as we are in the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities in terms of poverty, exploitation of workers, employment, introduction of personal assistance and long-term care, we have not yet been in this mandate. Therefore, I do not see what we would oppose and what we should look for a broader consensus, because we are all in order to prevent the exploitation of workers, that it is time to introduce long-term care and personal assistance, that it is time to eliminate poverty, and that it is time to do something also on family policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, they should prepare themselves for the Mag. Tanja Zink and Mrs. Nada Brinovšek. Here you go, Dr. Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! To explain the reasons why interpretation is necessary, I will use an inductive method – from one particular to the other. First of all, we have the findings of the Administrative Court and the findings of the Administrative Inspectorate, where both of them find violations. Second, the abduction of children was not explained in any way what the reasons were and what the abuse was to have occurred. It is unusual for a social work centre to be represented by a private lawyer, despite the fact that we have a whole bunch of lawyers at the Ministry and the State Attorney's Office. In addition, there is a vague role of experts and experts under what conditions, when and how the contracts have been signed. Of course, the broader issue – governance and control that the Ministry must carry out. We see a whole bunch of irregularities, first the personnel, the lack of transparency in employment and the selection of personnel, then the funding of the centres, also here we have identified a number of violations, and the implementation of procedures for which we find that people are not qualified and many mistakes occur. Of course, the responsibility is transferred to the courts. The solutions proposed are also going in this direction so that the courts can solve them. We already have too many judges, and everything in our country is supposed to be resolved by courts after providing some. Where's the expertise? We need professional decisions, and we won't need courts at all, or we'll just have them for the most difficult cases. If I end up on that broader definition of problems at the Ministry. Throughout history in Slovenia tradition and culture is that the family is wider and that old parents are the most important factor of this wider family. And all decisions run counter to this culture, which the Slovenians still love to preserve. And what needs to be pointed out is that the circumstances of this interpolation point to some signs of corruption in the broadest sense: a conflict of interest, to the conclusion that we have bad informal institutions. These are elite agreements, these are non-transparent recruitments, these are various threats, including by coercion, and trading in influence. Because of all the above elements, I will support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u46	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which requested interpretation, is building an interpellation on the evidence relating to the specific case of the abduction of minors. I understand that and accept it because it is the legitimate right of the opposition. However, I cannot accept it, and this really bothers me that it is in public to judge professional matters concerning minors. These children will be marked for life without media dissemination and political debate. Moreover, it bothers me that there are still legal proceedings in this regard that will give an answer to who he is, if he is, and why he is responsible. At this point, however, the Minister cannot take any responsibility in this regard. Let me remind you again, it is very likely that such cases would not be discussed if the Family Code in 2012 were supported by a referendum; it is not. It is very likely that today we would not be pointing to the social work center, but people decided to do as they did. Today, however, people find out how wrong everything is and how it should be that it does not happen. We know that even in the National Assembly, we have received a petition from a civil initiative that has been specifically organised in the last media event of the abduction of minors. Thus, we had the opportunity to see this area better regulated today, for which the same minister, who today appears to be concealing incompetence, involvement in the politicisation of the work of social work centres, and so on, has already worked as State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. As former and, I can say, long-standing professional workers, employed at the Centre for Social Work, I am very well aware of the functioning of these services in an organisational and substantive sense. I can only insist that fundamental changes are needed; and for these reasons, I will certainly be even more critical in the process of reorganising and enacting laws in this area than I would have been otherwise. The adoption of the Family Code is essential because the professional staff of the centres will relieve decision-making roles. It is impossible to be successful in an advisory role and to help a person if you threaten him in any way or in any other way, with such or other unacceptable consequences as the taking of children. And I believe that in this regard, we who are discussing today have no dilemma, and we agree that the fundamental mission of the centres is to help people. I was very interested in the recent statement made by the social inspector of Mr Stefanoski, who made a statement for the newspaper Delo, quote: "Every lawyer wants a decision, this is his instrumentation. Social workers, we want content, it's our instrumentation." True, social work is work with people, it is not administrative work. At a meeting of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, held last Friday on the subject of the operation and reorganisation of social work centres, it was repeatedly pointed out by the section that the fundamental problem is the social work framework, which is dictated by excessive bureaucracy or conduct in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is all the more appropriate in the field of social work. Fortunately, in the last 20 years there has been exceptional progress and development in the area of additional social security programmes, which are added value in this area in terms of the possibilities or possible forms of assistance available to users. Social work centres must again approach people, those who need help, while maintaining a key and central role as a social protection service. With the proposal of the Family Code and the reorganisation of social work centres, both of us are ahead of us, I think the first and most important step has already been taken. We will all have the opportunity to support it and thus contribute to the changes that are necessary. The need to reorganise social work centres on the government side has been discussed since 2002 or 2003, but only talked. Only this minister has taken this project seriously. I just want it to be heard and taken into account because we have a very large system of services for our citizens and citizens who are either seeking help or exercising their rights. And not to repeat the story of the single entry point in 2012, which is why we have unresolved complaints on the table today. I therefore welcome the Ministry's decision to test the reorganisation on a pilot project. As I am aware, this time the profession is much more in agreement with this intention, so I hope that as broad a consensus as possible will be reached here. However, there will certainly still be questions and dilemmas during this trial period, but there is nothing wrong with it, so I look forward to the expected changes and I really hope that we will come up with such a model of organising the centres that will give what we all want to be friendly to people or users and will provide the right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor; Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Eva Irgl should be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, lovely greetings to all! If someone's watching us on TV today, I'm sure they don't know what we're talking about. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have submitted an interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač; and there is no point here. We continue – because of, and then we list here five points, all related to the case of the Korean boys. [[…]] We're not talking about responsibility in general. We're talking about responsibility in general. I expected you, Minister, to respond to our five points in the introductory explanation, you spoke, I had a feeling like a work report or a work plan for the future. And even in your interim implementation, you spoke mainly about the Family Code, about employment, unemployment, values. My colleague spoke before me about the reorganisation of social work centres – this is not even the point of our request. The reason for this interpretation is undoubtedly a sad story that happened to the Koroan boy; and this story really should not have happened. On this basis, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have somehow assessed that you, Minister, are objectively and subjectively responsible and that is why we have also tabled this interpretation. And in the debate, I will focus mainly on your written response to our interpretation. Minister, in your reply, you state that the signatories to the interpretation are using content that should not be the subject of interpretation at all, but that of the institutions of the social state. I think the Ministry is part of the state; you, Minister, run this ministry. And since you run this ministry – already said colleague Susana, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act – you are also objectively responsible for the ministry's work. If we move forward, you say, "At the same time, I must point out that when interpreting interpolation in the first place, it is necessary to have the right to privacy before the eyes, which is even more important in the case of minors". Of course, I agree with the importance of the right to privacy. But I also agree that the right to human dignity is very important. And if we are talking here when you report to us; so have you, Madam Minister, called a press conference on this subject. You also say that interpolation is an attempt to influence interpolation signatories in the course and content of a particular procedure, which is unacceptable in terms of the division of power. We are by no means trying to influence the procedure; we are simply warning, absolutely nothing else. And if I move on. You say that the signatories of the interpolation build all the obvious on reporting media, rumours and various publications online. Here I wonder whether you have also taken such an opinion that the Administrative Court may have also issued its decision on the basis of media, rumours and various publications online saying that it was a violation of human rights. You also say that the constitutional right to privacy of children includes the protection of children from exposure to the media and the prohibition of the abuse of individual cases relating to the protection, benefit of children and so on. Of course, I say that child protection means that they live with their loved ones, in the circle of those they love most; and who doesn't like children better than their parents or their old parents. You also say that, according to the above and despite the perceptions of the interpretation, you should not interfere with the procedures under way and be determined by them. But, Minister, you are undoubtedly objectively responsible for the work of your ministry and your service. And if nothing else, I have to say that I can't understand or believe that you can't react if, for example, a social worker at the social work centre tells parents: be happy that we don't take your children away from you right away and take them somewhere else; that a social worker yells at her parents when the old parents arrive at the center, saying that Grandpa had to remind her with words and saying, "Lady, please calm down." To send a message to Grandma and Grandpa on 24 March: We are reporting that we have found a suitable foster family; that on 30 March, the professionals of the Child's Child's Child Labour Centre are unknown where they are taking them. Since then, parents have never seen their grandchildren again, and the social work center has forced them to obey, and they will tell them where they are. I must say, this reminds me of some school cases or old times in the former Yugoslavia. I must say that in all these procedures, which I think are unacceptable, not without being able, but, Minister, you should cut. If I keep going. The Social Inspectorate in its supervision notes that all decisions and procedures have been legal and correct. But the social inspectorate examined only the records of the social work center, but never once did she hear from the old parents. Minister, you have supported and advocated such a decision by the Centre for Social Work of Velenje on the basis of the findings of the social inspection. And with your defense, when you defended this, you, Minister, also became subjectively responsible for this case. If we look further, if you were still objectively responsible, I will say again, at the first moment that you have not been familiar with the case; you are subjectively responsible when you were familiar with the case and claimed that there was no mistreatment by the professional services. According to you, we were able to track, and also social inspection, was the only reason to take these two Korean boys away from their old parents, that the old parents did not cooperate with the social work centre. [[…]] It is perfectly logical to me that the old parents, because they did not agree with the work and decision of the Centre for Social Work, did not cooperate and, according to the course of events, hired a lawyer and also warned the professional public. It makes perfect sense to me. At the same time, I wonder if the citizens in the future, if we do not agree with the decisions of the Centre for Social Work, will treat us as if we are not cooperating and will then lead their procedures at the Centre in a consistent manner. I must say that I am very afraid of this; and I think that is what our citizens are afraid of. It is also a matter of concern that the Ombudsman presented the results of the monitoring at the work of the Centre for Social Work at a press conference and that she did not at first find that there was an irregularity. Although, on the other hand, I have to say that it is quite clear here that she has not found the irregularity, since the supervision carried out over the work of the Centre for Social Work has been carried out on the basis of the report of the Centre for Social Work; not by any means on the basis of being heard, or in order to be able to tell its parents. Here I'm going to say that neither the social inspection nor the Ombudsman have spoken to their parents. We're witnessing unilateral evidence, unilateral decision-making, and somehow back to old times, that's what I'm going to say. If I go further, in your response to our interpellation, as you have already discussed in the introduction today about the report on work and work plan, you also mention here on just four pages – that a little more seems – the tasks and responsibilities of individual bodies in the process are the real centres for social work, your ministry, social inspection, legal protection in administrative matters and so on. I would like to stop in your opinion when you say why I cannot respond to the obvious about the behaviour of social work centres in a particular case. You state that "interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister in the first three points is based on the behaviour of the Centre for Social Work. Most of the events listed in the interpolation took place before the Ministry received any information on the case. In a particular case, neither could I, nor should I, give the Centre for Social Work any guidance on how to proceed." And I agree, by no means, with any instructions. However, we should certainly demand that the centre adhere to the law and that it does not act in accordance with a consistent practice, which we can understand from this case is bad. And once again, as soon as you were familiar with the case, you became subjectively responsible. Furthermore, you state that the right of parents to the protection and upbringing of children is also protected under the European Convention on Human Rights. And when you speak in reply about the European Convention on Human Rights, I will say again, I hope that you have read the ruling of the Administrative Court. You're also talking in response to the child's benefits, I don't know. where you see them; but it is nice to look at the convention as well as the decision of the court. But if all of this does not help, it might be right to use a healthy farm of brains and take into account the fact that the child is the happiest and has the warmest home in the arms of his parents. I'd like to stop at your 9th point of the written explanation, you're saying that it's not true that you've only requested public scrutiny because of public pressure. "As soon as the Ministry received a letter from the old mother, on 25 March, the Ministry asked the Centre for Social Work of Velenje for clarifications regarding the entries in the letter received on 31 March. Before that, we were not familiar with a specific case at the Ministry in accordance with established practice." I have to say, this steady practice, I'm gonna say, the hell it bothers me. This established practice, or we are doing things at home – we also face it in other areas, such as health care. Now I fear that this domestic or established practice will be transferred to your ministry. You go on to say: "Being clear that I defended the decisions of the Velenje Centre for Social Work at the press conference, I answer that this is not the case. At the press conference, I took stock of the findings of the social inspection. So you take this subjective responsibility for yourself. Even the obvious that the well-being of the children in the foster family is not proven, is not misleading, you say. "The situation and mood of children have been checked by employees of the Social Work Centre and others." I don't even know if we can believe anything about this social work center here, whether they did it again based on some letters, here and there, between the center and the foster family; whether they went to the field and found out what the real situation was. Minister, in your conclusion on our interpretation, you point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are trying to influence the flow and content of a particular procedure that is not concluded before the competent authorities. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not want to affect the procedure under any circumstances; we would like only to point out the irregularities and all the misery and the disaster experienced by the old parents and children. And we want this procedure to end up in the best interests of the children. And in the end, you say that interpellation is a means of controlling the Council of State over the work of the minister; it is certainly not over the work of the administration, which is required by this interpretation. Minister, I don't know if you've seen when this was written down; maybe someone else wrote it down. Then who's responsible for the job? I only hope that today we will not hear that the work of the Ministry may be the responsibility of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Speakers in the interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak are taking responsibility in disproportionate interference with human rights; as one of the first points of interpretation and also in their discussions today very often. To this end, I would like to make very clear the position of the Ombudsman, which has also come to the National Assembly on the initiative of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. In this reply, we can read that the Ombudsman notes that, on the basis of the information obtained in relation to the case in question, there is no violation of the rights of both children who would have been violated by the Decision of Velenje Social Work Centre. In this procedure, the Ombudsman notes that the rights of children have been adequately protected. The Ombudsman further considers that, with regard to the legal interest of grandparents or close relatives of children in legal proceedings for the protection of children, legislation should recognise their role, since in the current regime they do not have the possibility of exercising their interests. So it points to the current situation, because this legislation does not allow them right now what they want and have also initiated proceedings in court. In fact, the Ombudsman proposes that the competent Ministry of Labour should also draw up legislation as soon as possible to delimit the decision-making power between the centres for social work and the courts, i.e. decision-making on fostering. The Ombudsman proposes that this decision be brought to court. This was also the content of the Family Code, which fell at the referendum; but at the time, obviously, we did not or did not ask ourselves whether the law should also be adopted to protect children’s rights, so that it was the court that decided on the issue of fertility. In fact, when the proceedings are before a court of law, the possibility of complaint channels is also created for the children's immediate relatives and thus even greater control over the proceedings itself. What I hope will be a kind of positive side of today's interpolation, that there will actually be the adoption of the Family Code in the National Assembly, which will allow exactly what the Ombudsman points out, which we have not yet resolved. It was a proposal, but it was rejected at the referendum. Also with regard to the Administrative Court, which ruled on the proposal made by the grandmother to return the children, the Court ruled on the basis of proportionality in weighing the action against the right of the defendant, i.e. the grandmother, to family life and the duty to protect the children. The Court decided for the benefit of the children to stay with the foster family. This evidence of a violation or liability in a disproportionate act of human rights was also duly rejected by the Administrative Court. And when we talk today about what has also been exposed, how much has been done in this ministry, I would like to highlight only two projects that the Ministry of Labour has carried out or completed under the direction of the current Minister. This is the problem area of the Cowlopia, where there is a high rate of unemployment. This ministry was the only one that decided to help save unemployment faster, co-financed the construction of a home of older citizens in Metlika and the expansion of the home of older citizens in Kočev for the needs of dementors. It has joined this project in very concrete terms with two projects, and I have not observed this in other ministries. Not only has it provided jobs in these environments, it has also provided a better standard for the care of the elderly, especially in Kočev, because it has not been possible to organise a demented department at the appropriate level. So there are two concrete cases where we can talk about the fact that this care for the elderly has been carried out very specifically by this Ministry under the leadership of the current Minister. If I touch on some of the other current issues that have also occurred at the time of preparations for today's event, i.e. the debate in the National Assembly, it was also noted that a request was made by colleagues and colleagues of Desus to provide the Ministry of Labour with EUR 20 million for the harmonisation of pensions. I think it would be right before such requests are made to consider, however, whether it makes sense from the same budget area, the subject matter, to intervene in a way that is taken into account by those entitled to social assistance from this budget and given to others who are equally justified; but one group will therefore be significantly worse than it would have been if this proposal were taken into account. And here I would like to point out that social protection, in which spending also covers 60% of the 20 percent of the poorest, is a key measure that actually alleviates social distress for many in Slovenia. Even if we look at the eligibility criteria for basic social security benefits, we can see that this target is very well achieved and that, according to the 2015 World Bank, only four other countries in the European Union are achieving better results with regard to the allocation of funds and their effectiveness. In doing so, it should be reiterated that the impact of these transfers actually shows that they reduce poverty by more than 42% of the beneficiaries. Therefore, very clear data, which are also verified by the World Bank, on how this method of allocation of funds takes place in Slovenia, even though they are not among the highest within the European Union. But perhaps one of my modest proposals, although I talk about it very often in the National Assembly, money should be taken where it is; and given where it is not actually. In the management of state property, we find that we are losing extremely much money. During the period 2012-2014 alone, SDH used EUR 11 million for advisory contracts. Just for advice purposes; not to make something concrete happen to ensure jobs, better governance. Just for the purposes of counseling. And until we actually resist this and clean up this relationship, especially the advisory lobby, which has finally taken over the management of state property, we will have trouble in the budget providing money for pensions, how to provide money for social transfers and so on. And this is where we need to find solutions. And these solutions can be truly common to Desus and also to the Social Democrats, especially in the current government, precisely because both parties are covering this area. But if we look at the coalition contract, we already have in the coalition contract a commitment to the establishment of the demographic fund. The demographic fund is intended to mitigate the deficit in the pension fund. And this demographic fund is the one that runs state property. And why shouldn't the assets that we have in the form of insurance companies, in the form of energy companies, in the form of Telekom, also those bad claims that banks are trying to sell with a very high discount, an 80 percent discount, that someone third would earn, why wouldn't that money go into the demographic fund? This joint project can be one that can respond to how to alleviate social distress, how to improve the status of pensioners. This is what I miss in this period, where money is, not for the needs of people, but for those lobbyists who have actually kidnapped the management of state-owned enterprises; and this money is lost to us in millions of dollars from day to day. And I hope that one day we'll make a leap and start talking about what people really need, because we know what we know. Once again, let's take the money where it is, and put it where it's not; give it to people in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, in the introductory address you had before the Members at 9.30 a.m., you had quite a few manipulations. You have had half an hour to discard the observations we have made in the interpretation by the Slovenian Democratic Party; but you have mainly devoted yourself to what you will do in the future as Minister of the Department you are covering. And second of all, you said that we put politics into this case. Madam Minister, let me remind you, the story of the tragic Korean boys has been brought to the table by the media. The media highlighted all these illegalities that took place in the process of taking two Korean boys. But you have also been very helpful to this and have been to press conferences, to echoes, to all kinds of confrontations; by telling us to politicize this case is, at the very least, distasteful. However, I agree in that part of you saying that the media is all too sensational about certain stories and that we should not do so, especially when it comes to minors. But, Madam Minister, when such a case as has taken place in the case of these two boys is so exploited in public, it gets such dimensions, then it is clear that, even as the opposition, we can demand certain answers. And I regret that, as Minister, you did not gather courage and come to the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, where you could explain and clarify everything about these procedures; also in the closed part of the sitting. Unfortunately, you were not present at our session of the commission, but you could have explained this peacefully by the media. Madam Minister, first of all, it is necessary to clean up at your own doorstep. Undoubtedly, you are running a very demanding, very sensitive sector, because you are co-forming social policy with your decisions, and now you are actively shaping. You have been in this ministry for almost eight years in such or different functions, and you can actively form social and family policies. But what is your key extraction? Madam Minister, you have not made any changes to family legislation in the area of fostering, perhaps some things could be prevented. At this point, nearly 300,000 people are still living below the poverty line. What has been done in this area during these eight years? Unemployment doesn't go well. 410 thousand people suffer from social exclusion, not to mention that we expected you to reform the labour market; there is no such reform. And as I mentioned earlier to the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, several times on the Commission, we are talking about extremely important topics that fall within your department, which is covered by your ministry. We have talked several times about violence against women, against the elderly, and today we have also been alerted to what is happening in nursing homes, we have talked about violence against children; but you have never taken the time to come to the meeting and explain your views and the Ministry's views on these very important issues, never. I've never personally seen you on this committee, even though you're always invited. Now I'm going to go back to this story of how it all started and why we also opened the case of this tragic story on the petition committee, which has certainly touched us all. And primarily, in this space, it should be a key thing for all of us in the first place to work for the benefit of children. I agree with this. It is necessary to work for the children. But once again, when such a story comes to the public, it requires answers; and it requires answers from the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In short, on the petitions commission, we discussed a petition of over 3,000 signatories, which warned them that they do not agree with the way children are taken away and with the brutal approach of the Centre for Social Work, which you have – we have to admit, Madam Minister – you are the one under the umbrella. You're the one who has to supervise this, besides, of course, the social inspection and others responsible for it. Kidnapping was illegal and the way you took these children was totally inappropriate. Completely inappropriate. And on the kids, they also told psychotherapists that when the story came out to the public, it could leave, and not that it could, but it would certainly leave a lasting consequence. Even in a story like that that happened to those two boys when their mother was murdered before by her father. Here I agree, this is a very sensitive matter, but that is why we need to be more careful and have everything under control so that such mistakes are not made by the Centre for Social Work in Slovenia and Velenj. The Ombudsman also said that the way these children were taken was inappropriate. And if the guardian can draw attention to these things, then of course it is right to draw attention to inappropriate procedures also by the opposition in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm sorry any other party didn't warn you about those mistakes that happened. At a conversation I had with a civil initiative in the National Assembly, when they brought me this petition bearing the title Helping the Children of Killed Mothers, these signatories, who were over 3,000, claimed that the civil initiative had no political motives. No political motives. And I believed it. They feel obliged to draw attention to the unacceptable behaviour of the Centre for Social Work and to you, the Minister, who has always supported this illegal act. You've been giving support all along. I am not discussing the content, but I am talking about the procedures that have been mismanaged and have been illegal; and this has also been said by the Administrative Court. Dear Minister, you can't go past this. As previously explained by your colleagues, you are certainly also subjective; but if we cannot fully prove subjective responsibilities to you, then you must be objectively responsible and you must take responsibility as Minister. You have to take responsibility because you are objectively responsible because all these procedures belong to your department. We did not take these procedures to the opposition or to the Slovenian Democratic Party, but they were carried by social work centres, which you are overseeing along with social inspection. In short, a civil initiative told me that they just wanted to help the children as much as possible. And why wouldn't I believe it?Oh, my God! And they wanted us to hear this calvary also by Members of the National Assembly at a meeting of the Human Rights Commission. That is why we have also considered this petition, but here let me say that I have acted with all due care as President of the Commission and, for the first time, I did not fall for some political manipulation by the coalition that they wanted us to close the public meeting as much as possible, because we must not talk about sensitive data. I immediately told them that, in accordance with Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as soon as I realized that the discussions would go in a direction where sensitive personal data would be disclosed, or that any discussion would interfere with the dignity of any of the persons involved, interrupt the debate and close it to the public. But no; they insisted on their own because they did not want any things to be revealed, to be talked about in the first place. Their purpose was not to protect children and benefit children, but to protect the Minister, that was the purpose of this hiding. But now I will continue, after we have held an open part of the debate on the Commission, which is also taking place today – and you can see that it is quite appropriate, at a level worthy of it, I think that no one is prejudiced to any right or dignity of anyone – as soon as we have finished the open debate, where there has been talk about the data that you have already been talking about, the Minister, at various meetings, I have closed the meeting to the public, because it seemed the same. But the coalition did not want to attend a closed session, even though they demanded it because they had no arguments and because it was really just a political act to protect you, not the benefit of children. And secondly, Mr Stefanoski, you know him very well, runs the Social Inspection, in which case he was a supervisor. Mr Stefanoski made a public statement at the open session of the Commission that, unfortunately, he could not discuss the case in an open session because he could not talk about sensitive personal data; however, he could talk about it in a closed session. And in a closed session, as you know, we Members are obliged to protect the data that is required to protect the data; if not, we can be persecuted for this. But when I closed the session, Mr Stefanoski, who was in charge of control of these two boys or over this procedure, said that he must go now, that he was out of time and that he would not be in a closed session. So he wanted us to talk in a closed session because he can't talk in the open, and then he didn't attend a closed session. Your deputy, the secretary of state, took part, but she did not say anything at all, although she and the coalition spoke earlier about the importance of closing the meeting to the public. She didn't say one thing; she didn't just answer any questions, she didn't even talk, she wasn't there, she's totally gone. And at the time, we wondered, Madam Minister, whether you gave her the authority to speak, which is entirely irresponsible because she came instead of you because you didn't have the courage to explain it even in a closed session, although the public was obviously in a more domestic environment where you could control the situation, you were talking about this case. And secondly, if the Secretary of State knew nothing about anything, then that means that you are irresponsiblely running your ministry in full, because you obviously do not know what is going on in social work centres. Madam Minister, we had a meeting on Friday regarding the conduct, functioning of social work centres. A lot of things have been said in this session. You haven't been back. I don't know why you're so ignorant and arrogant to the National Assembly. However, the National Assembly puts you in this place where you are today, but this clearly shows your understanding, including other, democracies. Madam Minister, I think that at Friday's meeting you could be present and you could say what you are planning to do with the reorganisation of social work centres, as you think social work centres are working; for on the ground we and Members of Parliament are warning that there are many mistakes in the procedures made by social work centres. And I think you should also answer those questions as responsible. In short, when we look at this story, Madam Minister, the children were taken away suddenly, in secret, taken away in a brutal way, which, as it is said, could have long-lasting consequences. In such a way, a respected minister, children can only be deprived of their children if their lives or health are at risk. As much as we have from all the debates and everything you have explained and heard in the closed session – because some other things have been said and explained in this closed session, not by your secretary of state, but by the others who have been invited to the meeting – in this case none of the things mentioned were involved. The second thing is, my father wasn't deprived of parental rights. I will not go into judgment in what way and why it was so done and done; but you must do so, you take an objective responsibility for it. However, neither the procedure on the part of the Centre for Social Work nor the procedure began. This means that the father still had the parental right, even though you then explained that it might be better for him to be deprived of this parental right; but on the basis of this parental right, which you did not take from him or her, this brutal abduction of children could have taken place. And that's the problem. Of course, I can't judge and I don't want to, and it would be irresponsible for me to judge whether it is more appropriate for these children to be in foster care somewhere else or with their parents. However, I know what has also proved to the Administrative Court that the proceedings have not been properly carried out and that you have acted unlawfully. And if that's not enough, even when we're talking about violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, if that's not enough for you to step down from your position, then I don't know what needs to be violated. They were constitutional and human rights violations, the withdrawal was contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, and there was an interference with the right to family life. And if we also look at the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it is clear from this practice that in certain cases the European Court of Justice, as a family life, also recognises the community between grandchildren and old parents. This community also recognizes it, and you have seriously intervened in this family relationship. I am aware of what the work of social work centres is, and I am aware of what the work of the supervisory institutions is, and I also need to be aware of what the work of the minister is. And the Minister's work is not only to explain certain things, but when it comes to finding out that there has been a truth about illegality and illegal procedures, to accept responsibility for his actions and not to seek reasons for what we will do at the Ministry. At the Ministry, we could have done some things in the past eight years, but you haven't. You are not only a minister for two years in this mandate, you have already been a minister and a secretary of state, and you know very well how the ministry operates. As a result, you are expected to be even more effective, which is perfectly normal, completely normal. I'm just looking at the upside down, as you said earlier, that there should be five ministers in this ministry, you said, but you still wouldn't do the thing. I look different – you've been there for so long, you know the whole structure, you don't have to adapt to this structure and you could have done some things already. These procedures should be carried out. I'm not going to talk about the deal between Desus and you or this shopping about votes and so on; but in something Desus is right, you in some areas that are key to your responsibility have done absolutely nothing. In some other areas, however, you have already done projects carefully, even if people have even told you in the referendum, it is enough. Where are the priorities here now?Oh, my God! Madam Minister, at the end of the day, let me just say this, not in an open session, but in a closed session, where it could be explained why the old parents were taken away from their children, we did not get any answers to the precise questions. And that was the key to everything. Not even in a closed session. I believe, Madam Minister, that it is time for you to leave your post because of all the matters that we have mentioned, both my colleagues and now alone. I'll support your interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister Anja Kopač Dark, I was sent by the Slovenian people to this place where I am standing today. Although I'm in the last place, at number 90, I have the same position as all my other colleagues and colleagues to oversee the work of the government, that is, the work of your ministry. Because you're a lady, because you're a woman, my edge will be a little sweeter this time, and don't expect me to transform my edge into heat. Unfortunately, I have to give up my support. There have been too many mistakes at the Ministry, which you have been running for quite some time, for several years now; and I simply cannot agree with such a social policy. In Slovenia, he has authority over the people, starting on a flower week of 8 April 1990. This same people, Madam Minister, gave you up for the first time on your mother's day on March 25, 2012, when you were not a minister, but then the Slovenian people at the referendum threw away, as they say, the Family Code, of which you were a co-author and also a passionate advocate. And people made it very clear at the time, or, rather, Slovenian families then said clearly and for the first time that they would not allow anyone to interfere with an untouchable sanctuary, which I understand is what the family is. A letter of resignation was written to you in capital letters by the same Slovenian people last year, December 20. They would have remained a great politician if, on the same day, December 20, 2015, they had stepped down by 24 p.m.; you did not. Sometimes I also hear from you and your supporters an attack on the decision of the Slovenian people at one and the other referendum that I mentioned. In this country, power has a people and a dot. On Monday, the President of the Government said in his reply to the oral question of colleague Jelka Godec, inter alia: "This is actually an event with Korean boys, which is shocking, which is painful for every citizen. We all feel bad that this has happened, and we do not want such procedures to continue in the future." End of quote. Well done, Prime Minister and Father. Like my father, this event touched me terribly. I don't want to talk about this much, but you, Madam Minister, have a long list of laws, regulations and so on written on your ministry's website that you need to monitor how they are implemented. If they are not properly implemented, you need to see in advance and amend the laws, to bring amendments to the National Assembly, because the real policy is one who sees ahead what will happen and what can happen and is not good for Slovenian families and children. This is where you swore to protect the constitutional order. I also understood that Article 53 of the Slovenian Constitution, which states in paragraph 3: The country protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. With regard to the unfortunate incident that has led to your interpretation, I will also read a few brief statements from the Ombudsman and her closest associates. I quote: "Despite the alleged murder of his partner and mother, both children still have a parental right, although the Ombudsman does not seem to be right. The Centre for Social Work, however, has the opportunity to propose to the Court the removal of parental rights." End of story. Do you feel here, Madam Minister, the need for timely legislative change, but you have not proposed it to the National Assembly? The Ombudsman notes that the decision could be made in a more appropriate manner without further traumatisation of children. It also proposes to include an advocate for the voice of the child, which will also help to express the opinion of the children. In this context, my colleague Iva Dimic asked you last April, quote: "Dear Madam Minister, how will you ensure the implementation of the adopted Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence regarding the rights of children who are victims of domestic violence in the work relating to the right to defender; and in what time dynamics?" Here I'm asking, did the children have an advocate? And you said then, Madam Minister, 20 April 2015: In the normative plan of the government's work this year, 2015, the drafting of the Family Law, where it is primarily a system-wide regulation of these measures to protect the weak. We're more than a year later today. Where is this family law now, as you say? You have also promised to correct the rules on payments of municipalities, you will remember in particular – in the Dornava Institute of Training, Work and Protection. That's what you promised on a field visit. You yourself said that you realize that the price for congregations is too high. I don't have time to talk about what this price really is. It's astronomical. And specifically, the congregation of Ormož was waiting to see the light of the world; yet there is still no new rule. And now the mentioned Dornava Institute for Training, Work and Protection sues Ormož Municipality, there has been an execution. Yes, logically, since the judges of the Church of Lisbon look at the rules and strike at the congregations. This is one example, just one example, and hundreds of them are how the government "helps" the congregations. Does it really help?Oh, my God! One small rulebook had to be amended. No, but he won't; and he's gone. And you were also the second lady of this ministry, the secretary of state, when your government then abolished so-called state pensions. And what's going on today? If you were walking on the ground as much as Nova Slovenije, you'd know. Like a very fresh example, an old man comes to the congregation who has received social assistance and the state has signed on to his property, his house. Now this old man must go to the home of the elders, and the congregation is a supporter at home. However, the municipality cannot be mortgaged on property; unless it settles the amount to the State. Who's crazy in this country now?Oh, my God! The congregation may then receive this property when it is a ruin. And the country will have – believe it and I know you believe – the congregation has more and more such ruins. Thanks for the ruins. You will also remember, Madam Minister, that we had already spoken to you in November 2014, when I addressed you in my oral parliamentary question to amend the Rules on Marriage. Why is that? Because I'm also an authorized person to make marriages. And in November 2014, a number of young couples came to me who wanted to marry on 2 May 2015. Hey, it's not gonna work the old rules. Because it was Saturday and on Saturday you can't get married if it's a state holiday; and on May 2nd it's a state holiday. How little political will it would be necessary to allow about 400 couples in Slovenia to get married on the first Saturday of May. No, no. Because this is probably what the opposition Member of the last seat of this Parliament has proposed, the seat number 90 will not go without saying. I also asked for help in the oral question of Minister Koprivnik. And he helped me, with all due respect, Minister Koprivnikar; but the Minister of the Rules, which was coordinated between the two ministries, did not publish in the Official Journal in time, but later, just to sew up the opposition MP and those of about 400 young couples. Yeah, and they got married. Do you know where? In Austria. I can list, if they allow me, the cases when they went to Radkersburg were married there, we thank God in the European Union, and, of course, we spent money on vinegar there. That's the government we have. It seems a trifle, but it is not a trifle; because you, Madam Minister, don't give a fuck about marriage. Of course, you also do not support the proposals of New Slovenia as regards social, reading, developmental caps. But you're backing up your pension cap. We have a limited pension. As far as contributions are concerned, we have no limits. And this is a call not only to New Slovenia, the whole Slovenian economy – introduce a social, developmental cap You say, will not work. Neither do you support the dual status of craftsmen. I have already spoken from this town about the small Slovene municipality, the Premur municipality of Kobilje. This arrangement of yours has closed the last two inn in Kobilje. Someone said it was a bar debate. No, this is a debate on economic operators. And they thank you: but they tell me that I must mention it. Nor do you support rewards, better rewards for good workers, as we in New Slovenia have suggested. Here, of course, I mean the Christmas house, when the owner of the company says: I will give up part of my profits, I will distribute to the workers who are the largest capital of my company, I will distribute the Christmas house; but the country will also give up. No, the country doesn't give up because it's devoured. And here's what we got, here's what we got. Nor do you support, Madam Minister, employers who want to hire more people; they do not hope to get rid of bad workers; this is the result of our field visits. We are weak, and we are good people in this world, and we are weak, and we are good workers. And all of this follows, because you do not support a better business environment, this also means that you do not support better financing of the social state; therefore again you do not respect Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution. And until then, ladies and gentlemen, a respected minister, we will have the Gini coefficient that we have; we are an egalitarian society, one of the most egalitarian in Europe and beyond, but unfortunately we are egalitarian in poverty. We create too little in terms of what needs this country has for its own functioning. And there's something else from my microenvironment that really shook me. The home of the elderly Lendava, 20 years carrying out his mission, among the first ten who received the E-Qalin certificate. As far as I can tell, as far as I've seen it at home, I can tell you, they're on top, maybe they're top five home for the elderly. In January 2011, your ministry, you were then the secretary of state, gave consent to the Director of that time, because of course he received maximum support in the world of the institution, in the municipalities and so on. His mandate expired and he applied for a new term, received unanimous support in the world of the institution, received support in the Municipality of Lendava, people love him. None, I would stress, any comments made in his mandate by the tenants, the owners of the tenants and the employees, any comments. Minister, you're not going to believe this, now you're not going to give him consent, for no reason, without any written explanation. And, of course, this has a negative impact on the whole of the collective, and I've learned from the local media that the employees have written about what's going on, whether the minister has a political candidate. The Council of the Institute must react and say to the Director of the Houses of Older Lendava. No negative comments, no instructions, no written instructions from the Minister shall, where it would say what he must do, give nothing. And what has changed with regard to laws, regulations, the Constitution, and what else needs to be changed from January 2011 to January this year? Nothing has changed in this area, but the minister turns the record around and says, "No, I don't give my consent. And on the basis of a letter from the employees, the Minister sends his associate, not the Secretary of State or Secretary of State, not the Director General of which of the Directorates, I don't know who got there. But the matter shook me up because I was invited there on June 4th of this year to a home picnic, every year I'm invited, and I go there and enjoy this good company. And it ran down my back, Madam Minister, I suffered for you when guests criticized the ministry in their farewell talks. What does Ljubljana want with us? Ljubljana joins the House of Older Lendava and then you really feel that this region is really 200 kilometers away from Ljubljana, which is true, and also 200 light years away from the heart. This affects me and I will be very loud, Madam Minister, if you stay here because of the coalition arithmetic; because this is not about whether you are doing well or not doing well, it is simply a coalition arithmetic and counting of votes. But why do you tell these people they're bad? If you tell them they're bad, tell them they're doing it wrong. What has changed since January 2011, when this man received the green light from your ministry and did not get it in January 2016?Oh, my God! Yeah, it's hard to hear that. Put yourself in my shoes. I greeted the people there with a trembling voice and promised that I would try to make things right; what should I do? I didn't criticize the Minister, no, I didn't. There were cameras, maybe some of them were on video; but the guests who were there were extremely sharp from the local environment. I was ashamed as the only representative of the legislative branch of power. And if it goes that way, I won't be there for another year's shame. And this is the home, which is one of the best in Slovenia. So much for now. Then there may be more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u55	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u56	Mr President, at the right time, you have taken this chair because you always let me say what I think to the end; and I am very happy. Initially, I would like to begin with a sentence made today by the Minister. I couldn't get to the beginning of the session because the Stairway was closed, and I missed the beginning of the session a little bit, but I looked at the tapegram. Minister, please wait here, don't run away because it's very important. Yeah, it's sad, because I know, I get it, you speak one, but you do the other. What did the secretary say? She said, "Today I am standing before you because the Slovenian Democratic Party demands my resignation because I do not want to spread it in public-cut shows and so on." She said, "because I don't want to be in public-cut shows..." Mr. President, I ask you, and everyone sitting in here, are we circuses here?Oh, my God! Tell me. And you support such a minister, says you're circuses, that the National Assembly organizes a show; I don't know what she's here for, but that's what she said. At least what the President of the National Assembly should say to her is a reminder of regret. This is an insult, an extremely vulgar, irresponsible, shameful insult to all of us who were elected to the National Assembly. Mr President, I expect you to give the Minister a reminder after my concluded discussion because of this statement because he deserves it. And in my opinion, the Minister should have left this position a long time ago — not today or yesterday. I'm going to say a few things in the beginning, why. I've been in contact with a lot of people who work at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, at social work centres, and I'm not going to explain any further, because I'm moving all over Slovenia, thank God, I'm meeting people. And what do you think people have told me? Please let this lady know once that she should leave because she destroys everything social in this society, everything that is social. He works contrary to everything, but he supports a narrow group of individuals, about whom we will then say something. Let him go. And today we are talking here, of course, the centres for social work have also been making mistakes. But you have to ask yourself why, because of the incompetence of the minister, because she wasn't giving them instructions. They do not give them timely instructions, they do not give what is necessary to enable social work centres to function normally. And I'm not just talking about social work centres, I'm talking about the ministry. They said, please, we can't do it anymore when we hear The Dark, we're getting dark in our eyes. It's sad that this is the truth. Minister, that's the truth. Ask me what people think of you in the middle where you work. The key problem is that the matter is as it is, the Social Democrats, who have adopted everything that falls under social conditions in this country, have adopted it. It's their nursery. They do exactly what suits them. Take a look back at how many such and different, advisory, those, those and a million contracts there are. The money's running out, and I don't know where it's going. Let's take a look at this, the one you're in the coalition who's supporting such an incompetent minister, according to my personal opinion. And I sincerely apologize to you for not wanting to offend you, but I tell you that this is my belief, and as a member of the National Assembly I have the right to say that my conviction here is because it is here in the National Assembly; otherwise you would have sued me, as you mentioned in your debate today, how those who have used such and other information will deal with those structures in this society, which are, because you understand, I will not let go, because you have told us everything because we are not fools here, that we do not know what this is about. And, Minister, you said we were members of the circus here. I'll read it again because you escaped because you're afraid. You said, "Because I don't want to be in public-cut shows..." In public directed shows – for you the National Assembly is a publicly directed show. And this debate in Parliament on such an important, so problematic, sensitive issue – show. My colleague Franci from Desus, it's an honor to call this a stop. However, the lady, the party that won 52,000 votes in the elections – the Slovenian Democratic Party received 181,000 votes – such a party that has a minister, can say that we are circuses in here. Don't joke. I guess we'll call it a stop sometime. Is this a democratic society, a democratic state?Oh, my God! And that's how the Minister behaves here. Please do not sit on these flossules and such and other computer combinations. The SD will never leave the government, I tell you. Don't be afraid of it because they have nowhere to go. There's nowhere to go, I guarantee you. There's nowhere to go. If they go out, there's never any more. This should have happened a long time ago because they took over the entire area. And today more than 90% of the members of the Social Democrats have employees in the social story. See if you don't think I'm making something up. Go take a look. Here and there where SMC infiltrated, I say to one of their candidates or presidents, they have now attacked him and they want to destroy him. Then you understand what this is all about. Perfect control of one subsystem where you have a landfill. Not for those who work well at the social work center, but also for those who can't be pushed anywhere, but try them in one way or another, after all these stories that have happened now, just give them the chance to hide them somewhere. Go to the social work center. Take it or we'll take the board and we'll go around all social work centers, and we won't take the minister with us, and we won't take any; and of course I'll go along, and let's ask them to tell us what this is about. [[…]] You'll see how these people look at the thing and what they'll tell us. They will say – it is now time to stop these people, please, because they have disrupted the functioning of the social system, they have destroyed the social profession. Go ask what the social profession thinks about the minister. Go ask, and you'll understand everything. And I do not allow myself to be told that Marijan Pojbič – a Member elected four times in Parliament, who also received 40% in the elections – is a Circuscant. I just can't afford it because it's tasteless. And all those voters who voted for the Slovenian Democratic Party, 181,000, are circuses because they elected such a team. That's amazing, really amazing. And no one's reacting. I can't believe you're all sitting on your ears or you're so ignorant of politics. If it doesn't hurt you, it hurts me. And this is an absolutely unacceptable, low-level, corrupt, extremely perverted act of the Minister to be charged here on the counter as a minister with MPs. I just can't get past it. And such a minister can't be confirmed, can't get the consent of this state council, please. I'll tell you again that the SD will never leave the coalition, don't be afraid that the coalition will fall. Don't be afraid because there's nowhere to go, there's nowhere to go, there's no place for them. Believe me. And what they do from behind to Desus, when they are conspiring to take the lead, for Desus and Zdus will join them; and the SD will be the leader. It's a game in the back, it goes on. Of course you're angry now, but you said no kidding. But you cannot just take over – a minority, five Members – Desus with eleven Members, because that is not the case. But it's a game. My dears, it's no big deal that you know that. It's nothing wrong, but you have to stand up to it because it's an attempt at destruction. I don't tell Desus that you're doing good, you're doing bad; but what good have you done, I must say. Now, my dears, I will read the letter sent to the Minister of Labour today. It says here, today's date, 15. 6. 2016 – Will only the new government take care of a just solution to the sad case of the great boys? Open letter to Anya Digač Dark. Honourable Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, with his predecessor Ivan Svetlik, will permanently enter Slovenian history. Not only because of the Family Code, which was rejected at the referendum, but mainly because of the account with Slovenian families and the poor, who made it very difficult for them to survive properly. For four years, I have been an informant – an expert worker in the enforcement of public funds rights. I remember how your legislation has cut into family benefits, made it difficult to receive social assistance, how older people have given up a protective allowance so that children can leave the modest property they have earned through hard work. Children lost scholarships because of modest savings and occasional work, many older ones had to leave their homes for the elderly because of their inability to pay. Such an attack on families and poor people has not been in Slovenian history. In doing so, both of you and Mr Svetlik boast that they are members of a party fighting for workers' rights against social injustices. Certainly are the creators of new poverty, its ruthless promoters. With the increased bureaucracy of social work centres, you have made a major contribution to the professional work of the necessary assistance. These often no longer have contact with workers who save their roles. In 2013 I sent a number of letters to your Ministry to help solve systemic problems at the Maribor Centre for Social Work. I haven't received an answer yet. Your understanding of social policy is ideological, without any sympathy, without respect for the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme 2013-2020, without respect for international conventions and European case law. You plead professionally and demand that people recognize it unconditionally, but this profession is here because of people and not the other way around. Your ideological social policies SD, SMC – here you also mentioned Desus – and the United Left does not hope to hear from most experts because instead of open professional discussion, they receive contempt, ridicule, after new persecution after the Protection against Discrimination Act. Dear Minister! Stealing boys from old parents is just a demonstration of how the Social Democrats understand your family. Nothing new, you might say, because at the December referendum, you showed publicly that you don't respect families and children. I recently read your statement that you see no reason to apologize to your grandparents who took their grandson away from your services, even though the Administrative Court has told you that the abduction of a child is illegal and that Grandma and Grandpa are violated human rights. Your professional responsibility has already taken place, but you are not prepared to take it. And while you're getting your position together, the Velenje boys are still waiting for you to return to your grandparents. How much longer, Madam Secretary? Only the new government will provide a just solution to the story of the great boys? Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you've read this, and I hope all those who support the Minister do. And please, don't work when it comes to such important issues, just to keep the coalition standing or to make it mathematically possible for you; on the other hand, your soul completely gives up and everything that is crucial in this situation that is happening. And one more thing, Your Honor, because today I listened to the Minister say a lot of things, how much they fought in this area for the socially disadvantaged, for the pensioners and so on. Among other things, I will give you only one piece of information that I think is very important. Legebitra has already received EUR 1 million 62 000 437.75 of tax money for the enforcement of homosexual agendas. So much for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities under the leadership of Anja Kopač. This is money, 1 million, I'm going to keep reading it because it's important. Legebitra, the leading Slovenian homosexual organization, which brings together a small group of homosexual activists, is financed exponentially from public funds. The table shows that it is most funded by the Government of Mir Cerar and the Municipality of Ljubljana under the leadership of Zoran Jankovic. In 2015, it received more than 195 000 euros throughout the year, and this year it has received more than 385 000 euros in the first five months. Instead of spending money on the police, the unemployed and the poor, the government would rather fund a rich, self-proclaimed LGTB elite to force our child's radical ideology of sex and risky lifestyles with our money. Respectable coalition, now that you're looking at me like that, you obviously don't know a lot of things, and I can't believe that's possible. I would expect you to be familiar with such things. I believe that, and I am sure that Franz Jurša and the Democratic Party of pensioners would absolutely insist that this money be distributed among the poor pensioners, not for those privileged. You've read what it says in here; what a mess, what a shame it is, what a face this government and this coalition has. And since I'm already in the face of this government and the coalition, a respected coalition, read this for yourself, please read this. The government sitting there, read what it says. Did you read that? Please let the Slovenian public know why this is happening. Look, this government is ours. I didn't make that up, that was yesterday or the day before. Look at that. This is our government. And this coalition supports such a government, I can't believe it, I just can't believe it, dear colleague and colleague, I really can't believe it. Let me get back to the case. My personal assessment is that what happened to the Koroan boys, the matter went beyond any good-tasting limit. All those of you who are grandparents in this House – I am sure that the Minister, I just don't know, I can't say exactly – would certainly react completely differently to this situation, to this situation that has happened. Not purely bureaucratic, completely pure bureaucracy. Our society, our country has taken over by bureaucracy, because we have no right to decide any more. Bureaucrats say we're experts, and in the National Assembly, you sit circuses. And we, if we write it like that, we decide it's a god, and no one can do it. No one can do that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who are grandparents, you know what it means to grandparents or grandchildren. In this society, there is no organ in this country, there is no god in a cubicle of God to take away my grandchildren. He's not here because he hasn't been born yet. No matter if it's a little subjective, but I would never give my grandkids at any cost. At least, according to my personal assessment, in a politically-mounted process; I wouldn't. Well, which one of you would do that, say so. To come, you don't even know, and they take you to kindergarten. You come for them, they're gone. How would you react, say, how would you react?Oh, my God! I'll tell you how to do it. This could not have happened to me. Unfortunately, he would have reacted the way my soul says, my heart says. And to me, my children are the most my grandchildren in the world. I think all the normal people sitting here have to play with their emotions, the soul has to play. You can't miss it and you can't say it's numbers. And because the coalition will stand, the modern centre party, how corrupt it can be, will today press "for" to keep the minister. For the sake of mathematics, he sells everything he can to stand; to sit here and get his salary by the end of his term of office, because the next term will no longer be, it is a fact. This is distasteful, unacceptable to me as a Member, it is unacceptable, extremely unacceptable. My dear ones, it is my opinion that old parents gave the boys what I give my grandchildren — security, love, and a warm home. And let someone say who the old parent is, that it's not like that. Let someone say it's not like that. And I can't understand that in one way or another, in a tragedy that happened when the father -- that I wouldn't use a very ugly term -- I would have to use a very ugly term, and I won't use it, because in Parliament -- I killed my wife, the mother of these two children; or whether it's not a big enough tragedy. And that none of you sitting in here, feeling, then, at some point in time, having these children, who already have a mental problem anyway, takes away the old parents, who were the only human solution at this point, the heart solution, because the children could get warmed up, complain to someone, and so on. And because of the bureaucrats of this society, we take these children away from our old parents. Can you imagine the trauma these children will have when this story is over?Oh, my God! What traumas, what additional traumas they have caused to their children because they have done so forcefully! Don't be silly. It's crazy because one of the bureaucrats wrote it because he wrote it. No emotion, no heart, no feeling. What kind of people are you, what kind of machines are you?Oh, my God! By God, are you machines, or are you machines to keep your soul from working?Oh, my God! I don't know, look, my skin's on the edge. I don't need to understand that you don't have any emotion, not even a little soul. What kind of minister do we have here, a female minister who should be like any mother reacts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u57	Just give it a second, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u58	Mr President, I will continue and say one more thing. Did the grandson lose his parents who did not receive their parent’s permit from the nursing center because they did not agree — and I ask that — because they did not agree that the grandson would visit his father in prison? And because they did not agree to visit those who caused this tragedy. In such a short time. And the old parents, who were the father and mother of the daughter who had been killed, certainly opposed it because it was such a situation if everyone had done so, logically. If my daughter was killed, I would not be allowed to visit such a person in the initial phase — even at the beginning of the stage — if I had been killed. I ask the Ministry whether, among other things, any such argument has been cited by chance in order to prevent old parents from performing their parental activities? Does that hold or not? And when did the old parents apply for a parental authorisation, and when was this role decided? I want the exact date when the Ministry made the decision. And if it is, if it's possible for the Minister to explain it here, I'll be very happy. The tragedy that children can't see their parents for two to three months is really unacceptable, untasteful. Due to bureaucratic procedures, such and other, whatever, this is unacceptable. At such a stage as they are now, no matter where these two children were killed by their mother on one side and, on the other hand, the old parents were taken into force. That is why I am 100% convinced that she is objectively and subjectively responsible to the Minister, because she kept saying that everything is okay, that everything is fine, how everything counts. The Administrative Court, as well as the Supreme Court, as regards the violation of human rights detected, wrote nothing. The Administrative Court stated that the rights of the child, the human rights of the old parents, etc. were violated. And if the Minister here sees no subjective or objective responsibility, then I don't know what else has to be done to understand that the last time, to withdraw and that the possibility of the social system being able to come back to life, began to breathe, began to work normally. Minister, I ask, when was it sent to all social work centres in the Republic of Slovenia with regard to care and certain instructions? When was this done? Has this been done before, or has it happened recently? Please tell me the exact date that you will know how the Ministry works and saves back stories. At a time when it should be done when social work centers should have the right guidance, the right direction, and not to deal with paperwork, the bureaucratic stories, but to focus on people — none of this. The Minister has done nothing in this area, only additional bureaucracy, additional burdens on bureaucratic stories, rather than for those in social work centres to do what is their primary task — contact with people, resolve social pressures, resolve all that is essential, urgent and necessary when people are in social distress. And that's why I'm going to support the interpolation, and it would be wise if the minister had some conscience to leave or leave a long time ago, and today she wouldn't even be sitting here. And this session today would not be at all; if I had given up enough heart, heart culture and, above all, political culture to give up and deal with another matter today. And this matter would probably be resolved more quickly and certainly in a way that would be substantially more honest, correct and close to what we are discussing today, so that children will rejoice and old parents will rejoice. Minister, I've spent some time today trying to convince you not to wait for the vote. Because what you did today — including the coalition later, or if it does not happen today, and it will happen in a few months or very short time — when you called us circuses from the beginning, most of us probably won’t take it when they look at it at home and study what you wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u59	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Perhaps I would point out once again – as competence and understanding are repeatedly questioned, we are still looking at the different competences of individual authorities in our country – that social work centres are independent in their work, professional workers are guided in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Interference in these procedures would be, on my part, an exploitation or an absolute excess of its powers. At that time, there would probably be more reason for me to stand before you today and explain my actions because I would be in violation of the law. So social work centers are independent. Social inspection is also under the responsibility of the ministry, but that does not mean, dear opposition colleagues, that the minister calls, says to the inspector; it will be so; it is. The Inspection Control Act is clear in Article 4, and the inspectors conduct the procedures independently. This is the basic functioning of the state administration. And it is often heard from your speeches, for example, that I had previously been told that I had initiated proceedings for the abduction of children. This suggests that basic misunderstanding. I didn't start anything. I am here, Mr Pojbich, sitting all the time, most of the time, unless I have to go somewhere, on an urgent matter; this has been said. It's expressed that they are "my" jobs; I don't know if we really imagine that in this country. [[…]] You're reading the usurpation of power, and at the same time, you're clearly setting out from your performance what line you have of action and competence. At the same time, you said that the new government would decide where the children would be. I am afraid of such a new government, which on the basis of what it will decide on such very sensitive matters. After all, it's the children's benefits. And I really don't know if we're really the ones who can talk about what's in the child's favor. We don't know anything about this family. We don't know. The fact is, we do not know; and that is why there are professional services that decide on this. In one of the records, I read that 344 documents under seven were written about this family. I do not feel responsible in the sense that I can make such important decisions as are in favour of these children. However, the right to privacy of these two minors is a fact. And if you don't think that this debate is going to have an impact on their future life today and everything else, you're wrong. Unfortunately, we had the case of a Coroque girl; we don't know. At the end of the legal judgment, people are convicted of kidnapping; but you will still open, you still cited the case of conviction. In the end, this Koro girl, unfortunately, is going to be a Koro girl for the rest of her life because we haven't all let the rule of law, the institutions of this rule of law do things. I'm supposed to be the minister all the time to question all decisions because my lawyer is a different opinion. So you're in the opinion that an absolute lawyer is right. I don't judge whether he has or not; only you who quote, in interpretation, refer to this as the only fact. So you're absolutely on the side of one. I can't imagine how procedures can be done to make it sound just one way. Why I don't want to, and I didn't cooperate, and I'm not going to cooperate in explaining what and how. On the Commission for Petitions, Mrs Irgle, you also spoke about when the child was conceived. Do you think that? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] . Okay, they talked about it in this session and it's on a magnetogram. These are the facts we're talking about. I see this as an abuse for some other purpose, because this debate today, whether I resign or not, will have no effect on what will happen to the courts in these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u61	My friend Pojbich, please, we all listened to you before.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u62	Nothing will change, because in this country – I believe that we are still living in the same country and that we all believe in the rule of law; because if we start to doubt everything; in the legal state, in the institutions, in the courts, we have doubts about all of this, in your opinion, the social workers are doing the work unprofessionally; we doubt the centres for social work; what remains for us, who will decide all of these things. And I'm not saying, as I said at the beginning, that the system is perfect. There is no system that is perfect; the question is how relationships and powers are divided. In this case, too, it is clear that the institutions of the rule of law operate. Without knowing what the Ministry has decided at the second stage and what is not, you summarize in the interpretation of the lawyer's statement. I do not want to discuss here what the Ministry has decided at the second stage, because this is an administrative procedure that is ongoing, because I have already made it clear that the issue of legality and regularity of procedures, as you know well; that you can say later when I say something, that the whole procedure is illegal. That's not fair. Mr. Pojbich, about my feelings, about what I'm thinking, these are your judgments. But I believe that people hope that any minister does not decide on the basis of his feelings, but on the basis of the law. Because if you make a decision based on emotion and respond emotionally, then I don't see it as a legal state; unless you imagine it as a legal state, that on the basis of the Minister's feelings, what the Minister feels, how insensitive he feels, because you're a father, I'm not a mother and I'm walking around like you're telling me, and I'm taking the kids away. The other thing is, the institution of foster care is regulated in our legislation. The Institute of Nursing is an institute of temporaryity, so when a child in his home family cannot be there for various reasons; it is an institute of temporary nature, so there is no sustainability in this institution. The Law on Marriage introduces the Institute as one of the measures to protect the benefit of children. On the other hand, a procedure is laid down in the Act on the implementation of fostering activities. And in our legislation, we don't know the right to fostering. As an individual, you have the opportunity to apply for foster care, by law, which conditions you have to fulfil, training is provided for. Once a year, the Ministry of Education shall register these candidates in the register for the implementation of the breeding activity. We have about 700 foster parents in the country. Always, interestingly, when we sign the foster homes, we have fewer registered places than the registered cities. However, it is due to the specific situation of kinship and because the social work profession always looks first when it comes to a child who, for various reasons, cannot live with his or her mother’s family, is closer to a social network. A third of foster parents are relatives, part of a social network. Mr. Pojbich, don't be afraid anyone will take your children. Bringing people into thinking about the fear of social work centres going around, taking children, undermining the institutions of the social state and the belief in these institutions. In the case of relatives, it is envisaged that there is a shorter possibility of authorisation, but it is essential here that the child welfare centre, given the local competence, find that this measure would be in the child's best interests. It's at the forefront here, like all procedures, of the child's benefit. And if he does not find this benefit, of course, one of the basic conditions for issuing a breeding permit is not met. Indeed, for the first time in this case, we have been faced with a very different centre for social work Velenje in this case professionally believes that this is not in the interests or interests of the child; and on the other hand, we have received an application for authorisation. [[…]] That's a request we got four. 4. 2016, Mr Pojbič, and within a legal period of seven days we decided on this request. So it's 11. 4. The Ministry decided on the request of lawyers for the authorisation of foster parents. I will not comment on judgments, I am not a lawyer, I am not responsible for these matters; but perhaps, as far as the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is concerned, Article 8 speaks of the right to respect for private and family life. As I have read to you before, Mr Pojbič, you have not been to the Chamber, even in the Family Code, which your government has given to the Inter-Resort Treatment, it is clearly stated that the family does not represent the life community of the grandfather and the grandmother with the minor grandchild to tell you that you have been such an opinion; it seems that you are changing opinions. But the fact is that old parents are an important part, and this needs to be made clear; but the relationship between children and parents in terms of maintenance responsibility is with our Law on Marriage and Family Relations between Parents and Children. Old parents also get paid for this work because there is no direct obligation to survive when they are foster parents. For every child they care about, they get EUR 529 plus supplements. And also the decision of the Constitutional Court in the past was in this direction that old parents must be paid for this because they had not been previously. It is because of this explanation that there is no clear maintenance responsibility. And absolutely, the debate on the role of old parents is also in place in the Family Code, and we have included it. It will be necessary, however, because in our law we always have things arranged more broadly, in a way that our parents are responsible for their children, and then the responsibility of us, children, to our parents is very important. If there is an agreement in the National Assembly and more professionally to include old parents, it will also be necessary, on the other hand, to take care of children and to be responsible for their parents and for their old parents, because these are related things. As far as the Convention is concerned, nowhere can you find me – if you find an explanation of what the general provisions of Article 8 mean – in fact, only the explanation of this Article can be seen through the European Court of Justice rulings in this area. We have not found a judgment that would completely equate old parents with parents, with rights and responsibilities. The fact is that the two cases, which were also cited by the Administrative Court, are in the Manuello and Nevi v Italy case of 20. 1. 2015, where there is a very interesting interpretation of the judgment. The judgment says that 12 - year - olds had no right to contact their grandchildren. Right of contact in this judgment. Why? Because my mother banned contact with my old parents on my father's side because it was supposed to be sexual abuse. And since Italy did not guarantee to old parents that they had the right, grandparents, to have contact with a child, their grandson, that judgment was interpreted as a family community of old parents and children. And please, if we go to this instance now, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations clearly sets out our legislation – I think it is 105th Article, I am not now 100% convinced – the right of contact. And the absolute right of contact is one of the fundamental rights of the child. Children, I emphasize. And because Grandma and Grandpa asked through a lawyer for the transfer of local jurisdiction, because the social work centre is locally competent to agree on contacts; and since it was not possible by side, we settled and transferred to the Centre for Social Work of Šentjur. So the one who was also exposed by the lawyer to want it, we carried it. The contact or attempt to establish contacts was immediate, and if we agreed and reached an agreement, they would already be carried out. Deception that old parents cannot see their grandchildren is, of course, depressed. And today, according to my information, even in the media, the court decides on contacts; because in the final stage, under our current legislation, the court is responsible for determining contacts when two parties cannot agree. This is also the case with the divorce of parents, the decision of the court in the end, and the centre for social work has the role of mediator. The second judgment of the European Court of Justice, as far as Article 8 is concerned, is also against Italy, of 13. Seven. 2000 where the European Court of Justice has decided that Italy has not violated Article 8 despite the law which gives priority to the placement of the child with the aged parents. Italy therefore has the provision that the old parents are placed in priority; however, they have found that the child has not been violated the right to family life because the child’s old mother has not shown sufficient interest in contact with the grandson and in working with the social service. For this reason, the Italian authorities placed the child in a foster family. I'm just reading the explanation. So the interpretation of just one side or the other. I want to show that things aren't what you think they are, as the lawyer says; but they are complex. And it's not on you, on me or anyone else; except, of course, those who, according to the legislation and the limits of jurisdiction in our country, are called to do so. And I'm just asking you to let them do their work without intermediate judgments in proceedings that are all still open. As far as this is concerned, perhaps some more information could be provided because it went to the Ministry, which is wide-ranging. There's a lot of talk about poverty. Poverty is a problem, it is part of a system that is unfortunately such that we try to mitigate it through social transfers. As I have pointed out, however, the importance of jobs, the activation of people is crucial; and therefore, social activation programmes are also very important in this area. Since it seems and often does seem that we are not doing anything, that we are not even trying to improve the situation, it is still right to say some more information. The active employment policy measures are those we have in our Ministry to help people who are vulnerable and who are not in the labour market where they do not work themselves. I repeat, however, we have increased these funds substantially by comparing the very similar period 2012-2013 as well as the current period, and by saying that nothing has changed on unemployment: we have 130, today there are 100,000 of them, including the employment rate, which is one likely indicator, but it is rising by 10%, we have more working people. The average unemployment rate has fallen; the average unemployment rate is now 9.7%; the longest-term unemployment rate, young and old, is still the problem. Young people are best at this – but without measures of active employment policy this fall would not be. Perhaps even a general picture of the economy in Slovenia, we can say that the recipients of the minimum wage in the year 2013 – 47 000 – that is 14.6% of all employees – in 2015 there were 36 000, which means 12.1%. Maybe there's a minimum wage when we talk a lot. The minimum wage is the decent payment which could otherwise be higher, but we all agree that it should be framed. If we look at a little history, the minimum wage was legalized in 1995, our fellow Social Democrat, at his initiative, and if we look at the numbers now. In 2004, so during the period of the largest economic growth in our country, the gross minimum wage was 490.32 euros. At the end of July 2008, the biggest economic growth, €566.53. In 2010, since we are not doing anything to the social democrats, this minimum wage has risen by 23% to €734.15. Second. Minimum income, minimum income as the basis for calculating all social transfers. You won't believe it, it was introduced in 2001, it was the first calculation, and it was the minimum income of 158.33 euros. And you will not believe that by 2011 this country had not made any new calculations! At the time of the largest economic growth, this was not done. At the time of the biggest fall, the biggest crisis in 2011 we made this calculation. And now, of course, you're reading that we haven't done it again, and we've told you that we're going to wait for it, and we're going to do it in 2008. But again during the biggest crisis, we raised it to €260 in 2012. EUR 288 has been calculated, thank God it is today. But the fact was that he got up from that sum and that 11 years, 10 years is nothing. And now you want my responsibility for all of this! And you're also telling me that I'm not emotional enough and that I run cold and that I don't even know my emotions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u63	My friend Pojbič [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u64	Minimum wages, minimum income, these are all very important elements of ensuring the dignity of citizens and citizens. We probably all agree that there could be more. We can all agree, higher could be the minimum, average salary in this country. Higher pension – although please, I would say, for 40 years – official data – works is an average pension of €806. He's been working for 40 years. Just so we don't all operate on data that's one way or another. Maybe just one thing, even DS Lendava was mentioned, and I got the information. 4. 1. 2016 we received an application from the DSO Lendava Council to issue an agreement on the appointment of the Director of the Institute. 30. 11. We have been informed by a law firm representing a candidate in the appointment process that they have brought an action before a competent court for infringements of the procedure. He was appointed V.D., this is the current director. There was also a question raised regarding the use of Hungarian in an environment where it is important, and we asked the V.D. Director to arrange this in a systematisation act. We have not yet received the act, and we have not yet given our consent to the appointment, and we have not yet issued a court order. Probably most of the things you're exhibiting here today have a similar explanation. But here I am today, so that everything that people say and write — with due respect for everything — people who have been addressed today cannot even defend themselves. You accused the director, read something, the director of the social inspection. But it's usually a practice that people who can't defend themselves are accused of everything. And if I'm standing here today, I'm probably going to repeat it many times, because I believe in the rule of law, because I believe that the procedures and competences of individual authorities are so that we all respect them, then it's okay. Havela.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u65	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, President. Once again, the minister put the cart of explanations on a little bit of other content, but nothing about it. I'll ask her around the numbers myself, because she's already exposing them. Last you said, the average pension is 840 euros. And that's the pension? The average pension of all 614 thousand pensioners we have today, or those who retire in the last year? Because the numbers are probably significantly different given that the conditions have changed as well. Earlier, I asked you to explain to me where these 143 thousand people are, which is easy, when the total is a little bit of the working, pensioners, we somehow lose according to the number of people we have in the Republic of Slovenia. Or put your information on the table. How many pensioners do we have, how many children, primary, high school, how many students, how many working hours? I believe you have this information at your disposal. Because you talk so much about how the situation in Slovenia has improved and maybe two more numbers. In fact, I wonder why so much has changed, and why do so many more people go to the Red Cross for help? If we look at it, there were 105 thousand applicants in 2008 and 156 thousand in 2013. This means that the number has risen substantially. And if we know that we have about 290,000 people below the poverty line and 410 thousand people at risk of poverty, then we probably can't talk about some good social policy. But now I would go back, for example, to our interpretation, and not least again to the responsibility and also to the powers of the ministry. Once again, I will repeat certain things, Article 18 of the Government Act: "The Minister, in accordance with the policy adopted, leads and represents the Ministry, gives political guidance for the work of the Ministry and its organs, oversees their work..." However, in order for the Ministry to be able to perform this supervisory function, of course it needs all the information and is justified to do so. So don't say it again, please. Finally, the Law on State Administration in Article 23 also states that the Minister shall give the body mandatory instructions for work and order it to carry out certain tasks or take certain measures within the limits of its competence and report thereon. You appreciate the experts – and so on – but I will now read the opinion of one expert, psychologist, Dr. Kristian Musko Lešnik, who said the following about the case of Korean boys in his comments on TV Slovenia on May 26th. He thinks we are having an argument about the process itself, saying: "At least two things; the first thing is the first information from the centre for social work, which came to the public, that it was actually a reason related to grandma's age. They never denied it. So obviously this information came from their side, it's completely unprofessional and completely unethical to me. And the other thing is, the social work center has reached out to one community, the community of old parents and two children. They decided to take these two children away, drive them away with one brutal and sudden action, and no one was dealing with these two old parents at the time. These two old parents got a phone call. I think that such interventions in one community must be carried out with extreme prudence, extreme ethical and empathetic. This is also what the Social Workers Code is talking about, and here this code, at least in relation to these old parents, was literally promoted by the Centre for Social Work. This should be noted and I think that one major professional error is not to be discussed in this respect." And another opinion or note by Dr. Verica Trstenjak at the end of May in an interview at Valo 202: "As a mother and a lawyer, I am closely following the parental example of the Korean boys who have been shaking Slovenia for the last weeks. I'm appalled. I'm sorry. How can the Ministry say that the decision is legal and human rights are violated? That's the reason for responsibility, for resignation." I don't think there's much more to it than that. Here we go again to this case and to the illegalities that have occurred in it: the way children are taken away from their parents. More than likely, experts also disagree with what the Centre for Social Work has done. Last but not least, the guardian did not agree with this, but he is still the Centre for Social Work in Velenje, who has decided to take such a genuine, truly inappropriate action. However, we ask ourselves why this same centre, which should actually start the procedure for the confiscation of parental rights, did not do so. Of course, since we have always stressed that it was the abduction of children to old parents, this center wrote in response to petitions that children were taken from their parents and not from their parents — yes, it is true. Technically, yes, but they're the ones who should start the process of taking away parental rights. Last but not least, you said yourself, because a person is in custody and cannot exercise his parental rights. Now these procedures are running — but why did you wait so long? Why? Because the killer was a mother’s child — what? A party in the process. But you didn't admit it to your parents! Why did it wait so long? Perhaps after an event like this, the competent social work centre should do so without delay, but it did not. When we look at this answer, we see that the expert team of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje is already 1. 3. found that it is not in the best interest of the children to carry out their grandmother’s parenting activities for them. Professional team of the Centre for Social Work Velenje! Yes, the local competent centre for the decision-making of foster care is the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, where the grandmother, the old mother, also properly applied for the decision on foster care. But, as we know, this procedure did not run properly. This role has been put in place, the full role, should be submitted to the Ministry and you, the Ministry, should decide on it. Since she's one. 3. This decision was decided without the fact that the procedure by the centre, which was actually formally responsible, concluded — yes, what should we think about it? And then, of course, this social inspection of yours finds out that there was no irregularity. Yes, they came from the documents of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, at least that's how we could read it. And you're here defending how pleased the social inspection is and you can't get involved in the work. Dear Minister, you have a supervisory function over this inspection, you are responsible not least! If you were warned by Grandma on March 25 and said yourself that you called the center and asked what was going on — and why didn’t you do more then? Last but not least, why haven't you ever asked social inspections, how is it possible that she hasn't found out about these irregularities? Look, you're always making excuses to have the courts decide on this, but it's about the procedures that are within your ministry. It's not about new legislation. These are the parenting procedures. Now it's just one case that showed all the anomalies of it. More than obvious or possible, there are many more of these cases, and you did not urinate and react as soon as you actually had to react. Last but not least, yes, because the director of the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec, who did not submit a role to you, to which they accidentally forgot twice at the same centre to give a press when the application was actually submitted. I never thought that when I went to the administrative unit, that I had to be the one who had to be careful that there was a printing press up there, but more than likely, such mistakes happen. And that's exactly where it didn't happen twice. Yes, how can citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia then believe in a social state! Indeed, if such irregularities can occur or even be asked whether they may not have occurred on purpose in this case. As regards the Administrative Court, the Director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, resigned according to the findings of the Administrative Court. I have to say, it's a little late. I think you should have asked him to do this earlier; when you called on the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec to give you this role as an old mother, at least at the time. But no, you were waiting for this decision or you had to do something to cover these things and sacrifice one of your colleagues. But then, as it was said, there were errors in not having printed — the basic thing — on the documents, not knowing when it was filed, and, finally, the application was not given in advance. As a result, this was not decided in the Code and, on the other hand, the other price for care has been decided and has already decided by this expert team on 1 March. Really, I think that for every layman, these dates and numbers are completely unacceptable and more than obviously, these are not cases. A few days ago, when you had this famous press conference, where for the first time you even made public and actually gave your own weight to this case, there was also the former deaning of the Faculty of Social Work Gabi Čačinič Vogrinčič. Not long ago, we were able to read in the media that things were going a little bit their own way here. What was going on? Of course, this person then performed as an expert in his field, but more than evidently when asked about it, she was familiar with personal data, and today there is a lot of talk about it, but there was no legal basis for this to be made aware of. At first it was said that she was acting as a professional supervisor, but she was not on the list of professional supervisors with a license at the Social Chamber of Slovenia. It was later said that it was done on the basis of a three-partite contract, which was concluded only on April 11th, and a press conference was held on April 6th, where it also made it more than obvious that it had become aware of some of the data. So it's a lot of manipulation around this case and in a way, I don't know, it looks like you're trying to make some mistakes back a little bit, but you can't fix them. The worst part is that children were taken to other foster parents because of such irregularities. The reason we don't know, it has to be for the benefit of the children, it's clear, and this has to be the only reason. The reason you yourself mentioned at the press conference that the older parents did not want to cooperate with the centre is absurd, but it was then exposed after the first announcement that they were too old, which is, of course, so much worse. Dear Minister, I think it is right that we are talking today about the concrete facts already mentioned in the interpretation and the facts that have been exposed today. What you're going to do at the Ministry in the future is another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u67	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u68	Dear President, thank you. I'll be quick. You asked me about pensions, about data, as I explained earlier: €806 is an average pension for 40 years of work. So those who have 40 years of working age, their average height is €806. As far as the young unemployed mentioned are concerned, there are 11 000 50 young people at the moment, 33% less than in April 2016. These are the facts. With regard to the aid fund of the most vulnerable, I have already pointed out that, as an example of good practice, the European Commission referred to it, before we officially approved the joint operational programme, we have drawn these funds, we are one of the first countries to draw on it and because of these funds. About two thirds of the food distributed by the Red Cross and Karitas is distributed on the basis of these funds. As far as the level is concerned, the risk of poverty or poverty, because you are constantly exposing them, and I want it not to be misunderstood, every poor person, everyone in distress, is a problem, it is necessary to help him. However, when you speak so much, at the time of the biggest economic growth, the country's largest economic growth was 12.3%; the country's biggest crisis, where we fell by 8% of GDP, was 14.5, but the issue of the 2010 figures was also 12.3%, when we had the highest economic growth in that country. What is very important for poverty is also what I said earlier, the growth of minimum income since 2000, because there has been no change in the 11 years of minimum income, the basis for calculating transfers, not to mention in 2012 ZUJF. And secondly, this is the height of the minimum wage, which from the point of view of people, their pensions are still very important, probably much more than anything else. As for the case; waiting for us, waiting for our withdrawal – this is not the responsibility of the ministry, but again: we wait because we do not do, we do not take away parental rights, we do not do that - again understanding the competence of relations. And secondly, the proceedings are ongoing, so in this case I have already mentioned to you how many open procedures are also at the second stage, so the Ministry still decides to do so, because there is no doubt about bias, the Government has excluded me from these procedures at my request. Because there could be doubts about the legality and regularity of these procedures, but procedures are ongoing. Most of what you say is based on the opinion of some, while there is no subject here that we comment on concrete procedures that are open and ongoing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u69	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Get ready, mags. Branko Grims and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My beginning will appear to be out of context, but only visibly, and then you will see that there is something else in the context. I have just read one study on an online portal that asks young people in the Republic of Slovenia who were the main soloists in individual faculties. And the young answered Milan Kučan, Janez Drnovšek – Pučnika is nowhere. Then they ask them what the independence of Slovenia means for the history of Slovenia and Slovenians. And FDV students almost unitedly respond that this is an insignificant act. An action of no importance! I will conclude that you will understand why I started with such an introduction, the conclusion will tell why I started – I note that the Minister is not, usually, before any performance that is sharper goes away. I hope she'll be back soon. Look, the subject we're talking about is this: the President, you're on the move, and then another vice president warned all the Members: classified information. On the one hand, you're right, in place of a warning, but let me warn you that we had, I think, two sessions of the commission that we had at the request of the Ministry, which we have closed at your request. The coalition wouldn't cooperate, anyway. But, President, in both those sessions, I heard how to say two, three unpleasant data, but completely irrelevant. What secret information, not at all, or even data, that was against children, not at all. I mostly didn't hear them. This raises a question that in itself answers today’s session. That the minister said the circus and the circusers - poor lady minister! Today it's the Minister who wants to be, not the one who's capable. That's how we know it is, because you don't get a minister anywhere. The one who says he'll be a minister and you'll give him to be a minister. Here in this hall are the people for whom there are thousands, 2,000, 5,000, 7,000 voters. And no minister who hasn't been to the elections and elected to this parliament, and then went to the government, has the slightest moral right to say that it's a circus and a circus. Next, the minister and her team tweeted joyfully; for the first time in two years, she remembered that she even had Twitter. And on these tweets, I see a whole bunch of attacks on my colleague Irglovo, because the minister said earlier that there was some classified information on the committee and so on and so on. None of this is true! The Secretary of State, who is here with us, has been to all the meetings and knows exactly what was going on at these meetings. The President of the Commission has warned even several times, so preventively that he would not miss something as he would have been told. Now for the role of ministers. Look, the minister is now talking to all of you, or most of you, who weren't ministers, and he's selling you a story about how they're independent under the minister, how they're professional, how the minister can't do anything, and the minister can't do anything. Well, now you can believe that those of you who weren't ministers, at this point, I don't know if I can only see two of us doing this kind of work in this room. I ran the ministry with 9,000 employees. Nine thousand employees. This is stronger than the ministry with all the social work centres and the services that you have at your disposal, but I will say this; when the minister refers to expertise, to independence, in fact, there is irresponsibility and dishonesty of abuse because of these two expressions. Why do I say that? Because the Minister – see, in 2001 there was a dispute in the internal ministry between the Director-General of Police and the Minister. The chief of police said I wouldn't give it to you, I wouldn't give it to you, I wouldn't give you what you're wearing, go to Belgrade. Well, then the Constitutional Court, which dismissed the Chief of Police's complaint and, in explanation, made it clear that under the current legal order, the Minister has access to all the data, unless the law restricts anything. For example, in the area of police, we restricted this only to secret police officers. The minister has no access to the names and surnames of secret police associates, but he also has access to those codes, such as Rojo, Krizantem, Picasso and so on, and these are just codes. They also have access to all other data. The legal opinion that was already cited here today, which was written by at least these lawyers who are signed here, Trpin, Kavčič, Castle – do not belong in the right-hand half, they belong more in the left-hand half – they made it very clear that there is no data, there is no data that the minister should not know. So now the minister, the expertise, independence and so on. That means hiding, and even in the hall, I can see she's not back. Now I'm going to find out something else. There will be nothing secret, no fear, nothing secret. Maybe a secret for someone else, for example, for my colleagues, not for you. At the secret part of the meeting, I said to the Secretary of State, Madam Secretary of State, that I would vote against the wishes of my Group of Members and not vote in favour of the interpretation, but I will support the Minister, so that it is not resolved, provided that you give me one single information, just tell me one thing. That's what I'm asking the Minister today, but today I'm going to back her up, interpellation, I guess that's clear as day. However, the Secretary of State had the opportunity to convey this to the Minister and to obtain this information at least in that closed work. But I asked for the following information. Give me – A, B, C, C, D or what I know, how much there is, maybe only enough A – the reasons why old parents are not suitable. That's all. Why old parents aren't right. If you could give me some confidential information, sensitive data, disgusting data or whatever, I would believe it. But you know what happened? In the open part of the meeting, the coalition escaped, I remained, Mr Breznik and Eva Irgle, and those invited, and the Secretary of State of course, and then we went to the closed part of the meeting. At the closed session, I had such ears, great what the Secretary of State is about to say. She didn't want a word. Can you imagine? She didn't want a word in the closed session, and she had nothing to say! When we had the second part of the closed session, I offered my cooperation with the Minister again, and the answer was no. There was no answer. So it's behind the expertise, the independence that self-involves. I cannot say that the Minister is to blame for everything directly, but the Minister, with her work today, is covering up, covering up and defending all the professional abuses that have been in the service under her. That is, after all, a clear conclusion. Look, there will be no classified information again - nothing to fear from the President! I was reading a decision that old parents got, why they couldn't get foster status. Why can't they get foster status? It's not about foster care, but they've given up their role as foster parents. In this decision, which is negative for old parents – I don't know if people will understand what I'm going to say – see, it says that old parents are supposed to have an unequal relationship with their father and mother. To make contact with your father predictable so that you can have one-sided parenting. But, my dears, it's written in the law that foster parents have to raise these children in the same status. Look, this clerk who's writing this doesn't say, and he doesn't think it's about the father who's in prison who killed the old parents' daughter and the mothers of these children. And let these two now have the same relationship with their father, allowing contact to speak well of the father who killed their daughter and mother children! You know, if an official writes that -- now I'm going to compare it to what I did 30 years ago. That's when I ran the Celje Police Station, and when I saw that some night patrol didn't do anything, in short, it was useless, I called those two people, and I said that they didn't do anything at work, I'd buy dolls, and I'd put batteries up, and they'd walk all over Celje and down, because they'd be cheaper than you are if you didn't do anything and you didn't think anything. Look, your stomach turns to that kind of official attitude. Now the old parents have not cooperated with the Centre for Social Work Yes, of course, if the centre for social work, if you expect to have the same relationship with the murderer of the daughter and the mother of the children. It's someone crazy! But if we think of another information that the deceased has not yet been buried, the social workers say, no, no, you will never have these children. Never! That's what the social workers said. No, no, you'll never get these kids! As far as I know, there are on-call foster parents; there are those who temporarily take over. Because if you have a car accident, children survive, parents die, you have to put them somewhere. Probably into some foster family or something. Why aren't you 28? Take her to a foster home? Then why did you hire your parents? Have you been tossing them or what? Don't break it! The Minister talked a lot about the institutions of the rule of law that operate. Yes, bravo! Yes, of course they work in Austria and in Germany and in Switzerland. Of course they're working! And if you don't tell me, I'm going to give you an actual case, because the President of the party is here, and I'm going to give you a completely different case. Yes, legal institutions also work in the case of Kangler! Of course they're working. They've forgiven him! But his mandate went to get mushrooms, his family was destroyed, his children were educated in Zagreb. Yes, he will be forgiven, so the rule of law works. Yeah, come on, come on! Then how does that work? Don't paint me with things like the rule of law! Look at the minister's spin. Yesterday it came as a shus: The Supreme Court decided to keep the children in line. Pika, amen, over. It's up to you. What about the other half? In the second half, the Court confirmed that it was a violation of the Constitution, that it was a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and all other provisions. Yes, Minister, just let go of the first part and then in the Odessa, of course, I have to say that they're a little obsessed with the minister's spin. Yeah, that's different. But I had a different situation. You know, when I was sitting there two chairs to the left of you, the secretary of state, January, December 2012, it was completely different. I was sitting here all the time. I ate a sandwich around the corner. Every speaker, especially those in the middle, led by Jani Möderndorfer, was 35, eager to see me like I don't know what, I looked into my eyes. I wrote something down here and there, and I reacted immediately. I mean, I ate one sandwich, and it lasted until 9:00 p.m. The secretary's not here today. But if, when we speak, she looks down, the secretary of state looks down. If there was a psychologist sitting there, I'd say exactly what time it is, I'd figure out exactly what time it is and what it's all about. Look what else you're doing. Before you spoke, I think Pojbich was reading a letter, I think it was Mr Donk, if I'm not mistaken – you threw him out of work because he said two critical words against you. A prosecutor from Slovenj Gradz flew from the office, saying something critical about the prosecution. Kotnik's attorney flew out of work because she was saying something critical. Then you make a contract with Mrs. Gabi Chachinovich, a pensioner who speaks for your benefit. However, it will also be necessary for the competent institutions to determine where you entered into the contract because you are illegal. She had all the data, and five days later, you made a deal. To conclude that it's time for colleagues to come, there's something that needs to be said. Before that, the press asked me what you thought about the interpretation, whether the secretary would fly away or not. I said, I don't know what's gonna happen, you'll see it in the vote. The real journalist, what is this, SMC is once in favour, then against, then ponders and Desus SD; logically, SD advocates, Desus denies support – how do you assess it? My answer was as follows — because this is not how they will play it, but it is better that I tell you now. I said, look, the situation is next. Members of the SMC are tacturing, they are 35, I think – however, at the next election they will be for one fichot, and it is logical that they will support it, otherwise the services will be lost. You have to understand that. The SD, logically, supports, expects a minibus or at least a van from the fichot, but Desus always has his own calculations and is destroying any government they want because they are ours. Then I told the press, look, the solution is the majority electoral system, that he will lead this country and the government that will get the majority. Not that most – now you, sometimes us, once also SD, when you were a minibus – are adapting to the one who is the smallest. Well, you're not gonna hear that on TV today. To conclude, I started with what FDV students think and what students generally think in the Slovenian space, what FDV students think at all. I'm the one who's freaked out about it. Today, of course, I will make a contribution, in which I will certainly write down that a new government that will come will have to end the FDV on the first day of its first meeting. Why cancel the FDV? See if FDV students claim that the independence of Slovenia is an insignificant act in the history of Slovenians. Look, there are people like the minister who has now fled – she teaches these people and I think that, I don't know, four, five people who are Members of this National Assembly today. Therefore, the FDV, where you will go after you become a fiche, must be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u71	The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The head of the SD Group, to which the Minister also belongs, expressed a strong desire for someone to give other reasons for her discharge. And since I like to do a favor, I hope he hears me now, even though he's not in the hall. Indeed, the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities should be resolved immediately for this reason, because Slovenia is no longer under its Ministry, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution, the rule of law and the social state. What this minister has done in the field of social affairs is that today Slovenia, as a social state, is essentially a grotesque parody of the social state. I say a few examples; we live in Slovenia, where a recent invitation to the government has been issued to seek housing for migrants. And in the same week, ladies and gentlemen, we were able to read in public media an example of a single mother with a teenage girl throwing herself out of her apartment, violently. Decisions, all legal because you so much refer to marriage. By the way, Hitler did everything by the law if anyone forgot. It is a matter of values, ladies and gentlemen. And here's the issue of values. During the same week, we were able to read two cases when the carnivores went and bloated the unemployed in Slovenia, because because of a serious illness, in both cases they could no longer take care of themselves. In one case, documents were also published on the Internet, even electrical medical devices that this man needed to maintain his health were destroyed. And you, Madam Minister, will talk about the social state! To someone who comes from elsewhere and declares himself God knows something, there is no problem, 800 euros per month, or how much official costs you estimate – everything is possible to him; to someone who is a Slovenian citizen who has paid taxes and contributions here, he has worked, and then because of an objective circumstance, he is no longer able to care for himself or his child, and he is struck by it. And there's the end of the social state. I'm sorry, it's not a social state, it's a travesty, a grotesque social parody, and you're responsible. That's why we should go now! Because people aren't the same anymore, you're up for the same odds. Let me tell you another case where we're talking about the social state. The neighbouring Austria has a universal children's allowance to promote fertility in order to enable children to start their lives. If the €123 million that this government has thrown through the migrant window in this year's budget alone were distributed to Slovenian children, each Slovenian child could receive more than €300 of the universal child allowance – so calculated, but I am sure that it is correct. Ladies and gentlemen, where is your social state now, where is the Minister, where is your social state? That's why you should leave because it's just a social parody! Because for all those who really need money and when money needs it, help is needed by those who, under objective circumstances, cannot take care of themselves, for all those who are running out of money because you've invested the economy, totally. At the time of Pahor’s government, however, it began with the cost of rising with the billions of dollars of budget rebalancing, at a time when economic conditions were being known to be deteriorating — objective as global ones. And then it's gone on forever and it feeds on a mountain of some, I don't know any leftist associations that care about what and evaluate everything from hate speech to what, it's all hanging on the budget; but for people who are sick, there's no money under this minister, and it's throwing them out of their homes, and for a mother single with a little girl! There's no money for that, and you're being thrown out of the apartment! This, Madam Minister, is your responsibility, because under the Government Act you are responsible for the area you are covering, and therefore you should be relieved of this city immediately, because this is no longer a social state. And worse still, you personally and the government as a whole are not ready for the time that is coming, just as you were not last fall for migrants when I argued in the summer when it was time, and before summer your colleague from SMC said that something, you could say this in August, only then were migrants still away and we were on vacation. Are you back on leave now or what? Do you know what's coming? In a few days, you'll see what Brexit means! Two terrorist attacks, which I have argued more than justifiably, have moved across all the public opinion polls published in the UK, things in favour of those who are for immediate departure, which means a great deal of economic instability for the whole of the European Union. This can be done relatively quickly because it is for reasonable people, it will deal with temporary agreements and so on, but believe that this will be an example that will be drawn, because some in the European Union have accepted the right of our government to illegally release more than a million people, unverified, into the European Union area and are now facing crime, 211 attempts and terrorist acts committed and everything else that is behind it. It also entails costing, directly and indirectly, a great deal, not just Slovenia, but others. And the economic situation is deteriorating dramatically. What does that mean? Those countries that see this possibility are now looking for a way out of the European Union, and the dream of a rich, secure European Union is ending. A number of people in politics did not do what they were supposed to do because they preferred to smile nice for left - hand newspapers. It is nice to be a multiculture, but when 100 are dead and 50 are dead and 50 are slaughtered families, as was the case in France yesterday – I truly feel sorry for everyone, but especially for the poor child who is left behind – then head to the sand, then it is said that the weapons are wrong and I do not know what to do, people are, we do not know very well. Yeah? You let them in, you're responsible, nobody else. However, we rightly warned those who were warned that we needed to consider what we were doing, but we needed to think in advance. And then, through your newspapers, there's some kind of tragic nonsense like that attack on me in Del the day before yesterday, and at the same time, there's been an attack on how he doesn't see the newspaper doing anything right in that I argued before the greatest possible attack in history, even though it was a unanimous decision of everyone on my committee, I told the public, including those in the coalition, but it was published at the same time with a report on the 50 dead and more than 50 wounded in shooting in Orlando. I don't know if the ones who published this at the same time didn't have any beeswax growing on their heads? Where's their logic? They embarrassed themselves to the end, but the next day was a tragic event in France, and, unfortunately, believe me, it is not the last. This means that all countries looking for a way out are, unfortunately, very likely to find a way out of this policy, to continue this policy, even as the example of Great Britain is now, to find a way out of the European Union. Whatever it may be, the European Union will never again be a place of integration and cooperation, as it once was. It's a shame that it is; it seems to be something very beautiful, which would be worth keeping for the craftsmen. Slovenia is not prepared for this, ladies and gentlemen, not only because of Great Britain, but also because of all those who will follow, we will witness for a longer period a very volatile economic situation for our entrepreneurs, for all, for financial markets, if you also want social. For once, let one hand lift up who believes that our government is ready for this. He's not in the whole room. At least you're that honest. That's the problem we're facing. That is why the Minister should go because money is already running low and, under even tight economic conditions, it will be even smaller and the social states will be even less limited or even more limited to some, to those who sometimes say that he is our man and obviously migrants. It is necessary to replace the electoral body, let the Slovenians go wherever they want, but for migrants there is no problem, and the money is always for them, they are not uncontrollable. That's how the government's policy is. And this is not a social state, ladies and gentlemen. This is a grotesque social parody when you give a foreign priority to your own person, even those who for objective reasons cannot take care of themselves; as one unemployed mother of a teenage girl, as two who lost their job because of cancer. There's no help. There's no money there. That is why the Minister should go even if we let everything else go. And also because of the lack of money for Slovenian children for the universal children's allowance, I have previously calculated for you: only these 123 million for migrants who are thrown through the window and therefore imported problems and endangered everyone and everyone, including the social state as a whole. If they were to be distributed among Slovenian children, every citizen of Slovenia could receive a strong 300 euro of the annual universal child allowance. This is the social policy of this government and this minister. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of her resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u73	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor. Procedurally, Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, President. Today we are talking about the interpretation against Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak. She probably hasn't been in this room for about half an hour. It's right, absolutely right that she's present. I would ask you to ensure that she is present or to order a few minutes of recess, and then we will continue the meeting, because it is really difficult for us to talk about today's interpretation without the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u75	I have two answers. The first answer is that they are all procedural, all that is necessary in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, is fulfilled in order to move this point forward. That's the first answer. The second is that part of what we've been listening to for the last half hour didn't fly to the secretary, it flew to everything else. So one is substantive and the other is procedural. That way, I'm not gonna order a break. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, it bothers me a little less that the Minister isn't here because I know she's listening somewhere. Okay, and I also know that she listened because that's how the whole house works, so it's not so tragic. So a nice greeting to everyone, including the ministers; colleagues and colleagues, of course! I'm just going to say, somehow we always ask ourselves what the cause is and what the reason is. As far as the occasion goes, it's clear that this is about two boys, Korean boys. Here I will say, I will be very brief, that I am one of those who thinks things are happening, as they should almost be; the rule of law — no matter how many think because they are not in power that this legal state is not theirs. The rule of law thinks that works, centres work, I do not say that they are the best, that they do not make any mistakes, but, of course, in this opinion, I strongly refer to the opinion that some of you have for – so you are not impressed, but I am. So, Gabi Čačinovich Vogrinčič, who estimates that the child is being taken care of optimally at the moment, and I can see this approximately follows from the point of view or from the opinion of the courts. Right now. What's going to happen, what's not going to happen, is another question, but I'm at this point, of course, what's going to happen, or if you want what's going on, I'm closing. Secondly, of course, the question is why somehow I am not most satisfied with social policy, and, of course, it falls on the floor of the Minister, which we are dealing with today. In fact, Desus is a social party, taking care of the elderly and everyone on the bottom half of the social ladder, i.e. young people, disabled people and, of course, unemployed. At some points, we are in Desus — or, if I speak for ourselves — dissatisfied with some of the events of the last two years. Indeed, we think that social policy is slowly adapting to new situations, the law on long-term care, the law on personal assistance do not necessarily have to come into the work programme. Work legislation is somehow not close to me if I can say so; that is, we are talking all the time about job flexibility, but we are not talking about worker protection and I see some social embarrassment here. It is true that unemployment is falling, and I will say, thank God, and that is wonderful, but the question that comes to my mind is whether they really have any of those almost 300,000 who are at the bottom of society today that can be a problem. But I'm not sure that's where things happen, I think there's a few people or there's a lot of people who really have a hard time spending their time. The reserve demographic fund, at which Desus has been insisting for two years if I can simplify matters, and we are discussing how to organise it, how not to organise it – even Janko Weber, as the minister's protector, spoke about it today. With regard to this fund we do not get support, I will say, partners in this government and, of course, we are unhappy. He's dragging, but we know that the demographic fund is something that's absolutely necessary if we want younger people to join the pension system in the future. Desus fought a 0.7% extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, the first to attack us immediately on the left, or even those who claim to be social also on the right, if it is nothing, and we think it was a good thing and it was a long battle for these 0.7% extraordinary reconciliation, because we are convinced that this has at least stopped the fall of pensions. Today we are talking about 0.4% to implement the proposal made by the SPIZ Council, and I will say that the few million are being transferred from the Ministry to the Ministry, to each other as a hot bone that no one wants to grab. As far as the Older Ageing Action is concerned, there has already been some talk today and I will not repeat it, action is extremely important. I must say that in these demands, these social requirements, I will say social requirements at this very minimum, if I may say so, Desus feels very lonely quite often. However, I must say that it is true that this is not only the problem of one minister or minister, it is of course the problem of more ministries, including the problem of government, but it does not change the situation in any way. We're with this somehow, we're unhappy. I have to say that as far as money is concerned, which has already been said today, that there is a great deal of money, we have heard about it – in a way I agree with it – that we sell large, successful companies at all costs to privatise it and to privatise it under the sign: The government must not interfere with this privatisation, it is a matter of economy. Of course, it's not a matter of economy, because we're going to empty out all the funds we have for the future. At the same time, the issue that is common in Europe, the issue of savings – while speaking a little bit about saving is stupid or damaging to the country as a whole, of course, the social issue – has been taken as if something was wrong with it, of course even by European economists today, only second-rate European officials who go to Slovenia explain that savings are still necessary for survival in the European area. The last case, which has also aroused an extremely bad feeling for me and I cannot, although it has not yet gone through some organised form of law or similar, but the last case, i.e. the proposal for tax reform, as proposed by the Minister for Finance, is absolutely unsocial, not to say antisocially. In fact, take care of the rich, but for those who are less paid, of course not. And don't take care of the middle class, which is supposed to be the formula. Because the middle class, those younger experts, the engineers, the young doctors, those of them won't have any of it. Except maybe 0.0007%. This middle class, which is creative, which is actually the most creative, which is driven by youth. This middle class will have nothing to do with me not talking about the lower ones. So, there are some points in this social field with which Desus or I personally am absolutely not satisfied and there is a question that touches the social field and falls down here Dr. Anja Kopač Dark in. Maybe I'm just a little nervous because after two years we're in the middle of a mandate and it seems to me that some things have happened too slowly. On the other hand, I know there's a lot of work to be done, and I know there's been a lot of work done. The minister also listed a whole bunch of measures, but I think it's happening too slowly. A lot of things just weren't done, but I'm alone in those years when I'm having a hard time waiting for a long time and maybe a little bit more nervous and that's why I'm a little bit more demanding, if I may say so. That's about right. But as for the exchange of views, I must tell you that this is my opinion all the time we've been talking about this problem, and I haven't changed it in weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u77	I'm asking if you both have a replica. First the replica, then procedural. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you. I just want to explain further to my colleague Hainz about the demographic fund and therefore apply to the replica. Yes, I have highlighted this as one of the most important coalition projects. So, the demographic fund that manages the assets that we still have at a considerable amount at our disposal: energy, insurance, telecommunications, banking However, the fact is that this coordination within the coalition, if we are still talking at some other wavelengths today, has to be stressed that this conversation about the demographic fund takes place exclusively between Desus and the Modern Centre Party. [[…]] Social Democrats are not involved in this process. It is therefore right for me to explain this to the public that it will not be misunderstood as if the SD is that partner in a coalition that, say, is. I would not be interested in this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u79	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much. President, otherwise I'm a very understanding man - you know that, don't you? He's technically ahead of the rules of procedure before the replica, but there's no problem because I'm an open spirit, you know. My procedural proposal – thank you very much, Madam Minister, for coming back. I too have had difficulty listening to any Members when I had an interpellation, but I have sat here all the time. However, the procedural proposal relates, President, to the balanced conduct of the meeting of the National Assembly. Indeed, you are little, this is already my third proposal on this subject in the current mandate. You said earlier in the procedural proposal by Mrs Lepi Šimenkova and you deceived us that something was saying to us across the board and out of the way. And I didn't react because you were right. There was something out of this system. But now we've heard the vice president say Desus' electoral program, and you haven't reacted. Please try to balance, because this will be good for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u81	If allowed on this side, then it is also allowed on the other side. Until you cross that line that I set at the very beginning, this matter is acceptable, given that politics is the place where it is mainly spoken. Although I would like a slightly less insulting speech, perhaps a little less offensive, more patient debate, but unfortunately it will not lead to any action already taken. I can't change people, but everyone's ultimately responsible for what they say. It is true, however, that much of what we are now talking about is probably already beyond the work and responsibility of the Minister himself, which is the point of the agenda. But at the beginning, you were dissatisfied with the fact that some of the things we talk about are part of this or are not part of this claim itself. This is how I accept your procedural proposal, and as we have been leading up to now, we will also try to continue. However, I would not have responded in a procedural manner earlier if I had not been called upon to ensure the Minister's presence. It takes 13 hours, it is normal for a person to stretch his legs for a few moments or do anything else that is essential to life. Politics is not the center where someone should be on a sad bench and also interpolation is not a procedure that would require the absolute and constant presence of the one who has been interpolated. This is all arranged in procedural terms. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Dr Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. "Here I am, standing here," the minister said several times today. Here we are, standing here, you are not alone, what many of us are, not just a majority part of the coalition, but also one part of the opposition – especially those who would like to hear some achievements again, such as raising minimum wages such as new scholarships, such as the release of additional classes of the child supplement, such as the reduced unemployment rate. This is what I would like to point out in particular: in 2014, we talked about almost 130,000, today we can talk about almost 100,000. We can talk about that part about that segment of population that was hit the most by the crisis, these are young people. From January 2014 to today, the youth unemployment rate has fallen by a third. From 2014 to 2020, almost a quarter of the funds were negotiated. Training programmes were introduced at the workplace, involving more than 14,000 people. More than €1 million has been allocated to the deficit professions. Or debt write-off projects, some seemed populism, but I doubt that the 3,000 600 people, or the people involved, were the same. There has been a lot of talk about objective and subjective responsibility, as if we are not all responsible; the Minister for Transport is responsible when there is distress, the Minister for Agriculture is responsible when it comes to freezing, the Ministry of Health is responsible when there is inconvenience in hospitals. But our responsibility is that we can respond to errors that arise in a practical and meaningful way. That is exactly what our Minister has been warning her constantly since the first term, when she has already made a number of observations to her when she took up the posts of Secretary of State. If that were the case, even those to whom you tell her today that she did not arrange the things you were expecting yourself would not have this inconvenience that we are witnessing today. It is said that such issues would be dealt with in a different way within the framework of the family code. She was intertwined because she acted within her powers. She allowed everyone to do his job, God forbid that we, the politicians, decide the fate of those vulnerable or those affected by the accident. If politics decides instead of a profession, we will certainly discuss this for a long time in Parliament, but even if the profession decides instead of a policy, we will talk about it again, but always from its point of view, depending on our own needs; and this is a political hypocrisy. It is our responsibility to lay down legal framework and rules of action precisely because such manipulation would not occur, because, no matter what a living person does good, we must be aware that everything I do – and when we talk about institutions, it is a living organism, and it is not necessary that we decide otherwise in this case to solve the problems even further. This is why it is a very important effort primarily in the direction of a systemic solution, and this is exactly what Minister Anja Kopač Mrak constantly warns about, and not only in this area that we should talk about today – and I note that we are also allowed to speak more broadly – but, above all, that we know how to decide what is most important in this case; it is said, the fate of children. In this case, I have to say what a lot of people today have used the term to manipulate. Maybe that's true, but the question is, whose benefit is it? The kids definitely don't. And it is not our job to solve the problems in Parliament of those natures that should be resolved in this case in a court of law; and that is exactly what the family code would somehow lead us to. Let me stress that the results show that the policy of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is being implemented in accordance with values that are solidarity, equality, justice and where virtually everyone should be recognized. In fact, the rights of children are one that should be at the forefront in this case, and I am sorry that we do not understand and want to look into certain events that are certainly tragic in nature, some political interest. The District Court or the Court decided that the decision was correct. The children remained with the foster parents, as well as a reminder of certain procedural errors, which no one had denied in the sense that they did not need to be corrected. This is why the process of reorganization of CSD is taking place, which is why the process of re-implementing the family code is taking place. The role of the Minister in this case is primarily in terms of monitoring and seeking systemic solutions. In changing the functioning of social work centres, I must stress, in particular, the ambition of the pilot project to take place in Ljubljana, and this is certainly a pioneering example – setting up some new practices in the functioning of social work centres. With the family code, it would most likely mean a new paradigm in solving such problems. A number of individuals mentioned, in particular, that part of the child’s withdrawal, which may give us a permissive question as to how we could carry it out in order to be kinder, more correct, since no abduction of children is such a nature. Therefore, we will continue to take advantage of the opportunity to answer those questions also by coalition partners, so that we can only show some real guidelines and the real philosophy of the Minister to solve such problems in the future. So much for me. In the future, however, I will mainly report in the direction of the answer to the obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka as a candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. I really need to draw attention to some of the wrong statements that have just been made. Politics here doesn't decide anything, we don't decide procedures, we point out irregularities, and as the opposition we are obliged to do so. What do we have in our hands? We have a written Member, an oral Member, we can propose amendments to the laws, we make amendments. And of course, we have interpolation as crucial; what we have - I will not say - what we have done is what we have done, because it is the only thing we can do against the Minister. Last but not least, it's Parliament that confirms ministers. We cannot, as Members, contact individual officials and ask them, but we can ask the Minister. And we did it, we don't decide anything here. The Minister speaks at all times: judicial proceedings are ongoing. Yeah, they're running, but maybe we shouldn't run against this case if there wasn't an irregularity. In the area within your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has Mr Franz Breznik, to be prepared by Dr Matthew Tašner Vatovec and Mr Andrej Cuz. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we had at least two eyewitnesses which, in my opinion, were unacceptable; the first one was by the Minister, that we were circuses. Look, when I used to be in the circus as a kid, I remembered the point of throwing knives. Today I will try to confuse you, Madam Minister, with a few arguments, those who hold that they drink water, as always, to all others, what is my criticism, what I think was wrong and what is also a criticism of your work so far – that is, the Minister in two mandates, and before that, the Secretary of State. To return to the interpretation of the work of Minister Anja Kopač Dark. We have given her responsibility in the first point of disproportionate interference with human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We've been able to spot her violation of 53. Articles of the Constitution for the protection of children and families and for the protection of the necessary conditions, the right to privacy of children and old parents in Article 35 of the Constitution, then special protection and care for children under Article 56 of the Constitution. In the second point, we gave her the responsibility and suspension of the duty of acting as the competent minister, who is obliged to ensure that the State authorities and the holders of public powers in all activities, procedures concerning the child, for the benefit of the child and the integrity of the family community in the event of the arbitrary abduction of children, that is to say, to take care of these matters. Third point, responsibility and involvement in politicising the work of social work centres and in the case of CSD Slovenj Gradec in particular. Fourth point, responsibility in drafting legislation on the basis of political priorities. The fifth point, actions and positions of the Minister responsible for socialising are to carry out a political function which results in lost confidence in the institutions of the social state. Through this interpolation, we can also discuss meaningfully critically with other projects. It can be viewed primarily as a populist role, as a pianist work, but not as a work of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Showing the Slovenian public by the Minister of Social Affairs, the family – Pomokinova Vas – as if it were some very socially safe country. Slovenia is no longer an extremely social player. For the first time, because we are economically failing because we are closing down, on the other hand, and because we are spending a whole lot of this money in social services, there is money coming to social security where it is not needed, and it is not where it is needed. Remember the complication of the call for deficient professions, Minister, it was chaos, it was chaotic conditions - whoever comes sooner, sooner grinds! Please, dear colleagues, we live in the 21st century because we do not stand in line for bread like in 1957 and 1958, distinguished minister. Then remember the social card, the end of last year were promised – they are not. The urgent reorganization of CSD, this is said by the Minister for the past two terms. We've been talking about them today. How much did they bring? Approximately €150,000 and the costs for the scales themselves amounted to more than €300,000 and so on. So it's all about failed projects. Remember to write off debts; three months of marketing, three months of pianist work, what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen in this country? I'm asking you nicely, a totally unsuccessful project! They laughed in the municipalities and in other local communities, literally this project. So, pure Tomkin's village, pure Tomkin's village. Now we're going to the essence of today's interpolation. First thing, what's most responsible is the minister's job to take care of the smooth work, Minister. We start at the source of the problem, it's just work. So, only guidance CSD in Slovenj Gradc and also in Velenj, especially in Slovenj Gradc and see the media records by naming 54-year-old Yuri Šumečnik: Work 28 January 2014 So it begins: Director CSD by customer line selected. Next, July 2nd, for the Director selected the only candidate without experience. 28 February 2014 They will only choose Šumečnik in third countries. 8 March 2014 Get out of the Board of the CSD Institute Slovenj Gradec. The CSD’s expert opinion is not taken into account; the institute’s world was not excluded by Yuri Šumečnik – on 8 April 2014. Then work, re-recorded from the land of King Matjaž. We would be surprised if we were looking for someone who could be anything but a butcher — that is, someone who is totally incompetent, who does not meet the conditions and who has been chosen as director. How should an institution work? It's going on, look. It continues With the Director, they will not wait for the government — so let's make it quick, let's get him through the client's door. The continuation of the CSD Director's records was also not selected this time – on June 18th, and so on. The consent of Sumečnik's personality – July 11th, and so on. Šumečnik voted for himself – August 8, 2014, Job on page 12, Šumečnik became Director of CSD – September 27, 2014. And then the records of the Minister's approval on the basis of all these criteria, so she gave her consent to the appointment. This is about the political names of someone who is incompetent who has no experience in this area. And then I wonder why this center couldn't work. Another issue concerning chronology is in the National Assembly. The Court and everyone else have found violations of human rights, especially old parents. So in the National Assembly, we have a Commission on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, a committee on petitions that specializes in infringements, highlighted infringements, and petitions. Look, the minister was not on this committee once, always represented by the secretary of state, who was extremely rare. We also had people working there who are professionals who are professionals. Even if today, as a member of the Parliament, were very ill-intentioned to the family, if I wanted my political involvement, I could say that I would raise the involvement above the benefit of children and families or, above all, of old parents, look, I couldn't do it either, because we didn't get any data. Comrade Gorenjak spoke today, can almost confirm also a colleague of Irgle's: There were no data from which we could detect I will not return, colleague Gorenjak explained the topics that were in closed session – there were no topics, there was no monologue of us when we asked the Secretary of State. [[…]] We also asked her if she didn't have the authority to call the minister or to have the minister come to the restricted area and explain it to us. None of this! The invitees, experts in the field, explained three aspects where they opted for foster care: they talked about emotional work, they talked about functional work and, of course, they talked about material work when they made decisions. We have never received an answer as to whether this emotional part was the one — that is, where CSD workers identify what this family is like, what these relationships are like, who have the right or who will possibly be the ones who will take care of the children. So we didn't get anything. We got information, those who were that the first observations or the first observations of people who walked after their mother's death to control their parents and children, that everything was fine; that they did not detect any irregularities that had a bad effect on the development of children. As you know, the emotional part means that children at their 3, 4, 5, 6 years of age are also strongly involved in an environment, they are involved in some kind of kindergarten, they are involved in their closest lives, they are also involved in their peers. Just like we did when we were kids, from the sandstone forward. So all of this was interrupted in one day, with one text we found another foster family and literally forced out of kindergarten. Do you think this is an acceptable action in 2016? The Minister said twice today that the system of society, as well as the system of barriers and balances, are in place. I explain this a lot, and I'm saying it doesn't work. This system of brake and balance did not work at the beginning when we celebrated the country, when we had problems mainly in medicine, in many mistakes, when doctors also protected each other. But, look, this is over; the more it was written about, the more we talked about, the more these mistakes came out. Not by condemning doctors, even when many go into, we can say, very complicated and complex interventions, but because of this does not happen again, it does not hide under the rug. Even in medicine, in the medical profession, doctors themselves said that they would not protect their weaker colleagues or those who cast a bad light on the entire profession. Then, look, we had a problem with Slovenian courts. Two years ago, they said we should not comment on certain judgments. Today, as we know, there are even practices in the world where even – Klemenjak once said that in America, even the show takes place, where one of the principal professors of constitutional law speaks about the Supreme Court's judgments and comments on television. Now we've intercepted this piece, so it's a court of law. Now, it looks like we're moving to the social security part of CSD. This should not have been discussed so far, it is a taboo topic. It's a closed section of the profession. Now I ask you – what profession? Do we have here a profession that is explained by Gabi Chachinovich and no other? So someone who fixes the damage and errors of the minister and the CSD at the local level and comes and says in favour of them, then a few days later gets the signed contract. Is that normal? Is this a legal state? Is this a system of brake and balance? This is a crime for me, these are elements of a crime. So if I'm going to write an opinion where my opinion will be useful to you, then in a few days I get a contract from the state institution. Before the contract, I shall take note of all the details of the case. Even as a scientist, even as a professor, maybe as an ex, even though I'm retired, I don't have that right! I'm sorry. Especially if I don't have a license and everything else I need in that case. This was a continuation of mistakes and in this crisis, in this, we can say to the correction, Damage control from the public, as has been said today by my colleagues and colleagues; after that press conference that the minister had held, when she immediately protected the case, although she probably did not know all the details when Gabi Čačinovic came along – we are now aware that this case was politicised. In doing so, it should be stressed that civil initiatives have been organised, and people who knew old parents who were with them every day. A representative of this initiative was with us and he said, "Look, we're from the same block as old parents, we live together for 30 years, we know what they have for lunch every day, what trash they carry, how they dress. We know old parents more than likely. So when we see this case, if they're taken away from them, then we, even some of us, can, I'll say, worse guardians or if this case happens. We've known them for 30 years." So they carry out some family policy doctrines that are not consistent with the doctrine of the social values of the Slovenian people and the tradition of Slovenian family life. It is true that old parents are not legally those who could, who are or are part of some extended family according to Slovenian tradition. All of these are examples that show, respected colleagues and colleagues, the light that incredible things are happening to the Ministry and its institutions. Not to say that it is not a coincidence that you look anywhere in Slovenia, are visible members of SD or are employed in CSD or other public institutions like us, say, in the Hrastovec Institute. That's how SD's client cell is. And then every now and then, every once in a while, there's a little bit of conflict, and then there's a little change, and that's it. These are these stories, it's like a caste of people within the CSD that took over the ministry and all the other institutions, like a client cell. It's abnormal for me, and that's why the system of brakes and balance doesn't work. Look, it's no problem if you're a member of one party, but when they're all, most of the people who work at one ministry, members of one option, and the system of brakes and balance doesn't work because they don't look at each other under each other's fingers. That's the problem, which is this problem of shielding from micro-level to minister. Because of this problem we are sitting here today, respected colleagues and colleagues, and these are the foundations of this interpolation so that it will never happen again and the damage is done every second. These 13 hours will continue to be with their foster parents, even though human rights have been violated. Every minute. And re-abuse, and the last story of this story is the abuse of this Supreme Court ruling, the interpretation in public. Of course, the Supreme Court has decided. It was decided that they should remain where they are at the moment, until a substantive decision is made on the case that no new harm will be done to these children. But all of this swords out, that we don't listen, that we deceive the public, that we protect people who have made mistakes, and this shielding is going on, we can say, from the micro-level to the minister, and here's the story. There's this story that's dangerous. This is a non-democratic story, dear colleagues. It's a story where there's no brake and no balance. Because of this and the many stories that I have listed today, the Minister should have long said good-bye. If she were normal, she would have said goodbye after she had violated the Slovenian family tradition, when the Slovenian people said twice when she lost her referendum twice, and said twice that she did not want such a family policy, nor did the Minister take it into account. That would also be a sign of interpolation and leaving this ministry. So they discover the doctrine and act on some doctrine that the Slovenian nation disagrees with and that is bad, which reduces our nativity and everything else that young people are mass-moving abroad, because foreigners are hiring our people, and here they are bragging about how it has done it, for a hundred million to have a budget to reduce the number of unemployed. How many have left Slovenia for permanent, how many daily migrants at this time, respected colleagues and colleagues, and how much less birthrates in the Slovenian people and so on will be due to the wrong family policy. These are the problems that will occur in a few years when we have a completely destroyed demographic picture. All these are signs that you should say good-bye to the Minister today and that someone, if not another, should be put there from at least another option, so that this system of balances can be established, respected colleagues, colleagues. That's the story for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Initially, it should touch somewhat on some of the indications made by the Minister regarding the harmonisation of the minimum income. In the United Left, we not only require the Government to calculate the cost of living, but to align the minimum income with these cost of living. That's what's the biggest problem right now. The assessment that was prepared does not, of course, mean that this income will actually be raised. The Ministry had already concluded in 2009 that the minimum income should be EUR 385. Seven years later, 288 are still missing from the 2017 budget, which would allow these 288 to be raised to the actual level, says 385. It is, of course, lacking because the coalition insists on reducing income for the so-called upper middle class, and this is one of the problems with this issue. To refresh our memory a little bit, I have here a press release from the Ministry of State of 24. Seven. 2009 in which the Ministry notes that temporary social assistance should then amount to EUR 385 and permanent EUR 562. They further note that the Ministry has reduced this amount to 308 with an explanation that the minimum wage is only EUR 460 net. So it's not true that they calculated these 288 euros at the time, but they did calculate almost 100 euros more, that is, 385, a whole few euros. Thus, it is not true that EUR 288 has been promised, in fact more has been promised, i.e. EUR 308. They also promised that if I quote from the conclusion of this document, "the following will be our obligation to ensure the full value of the calculated minimum cost of living". We've already told our solutions. The United Left would provide the means to raise the minimum income by amending one law, that is, the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, where the simple number 17 would be changed to 20. I am talking about taxation, of course, which would still be below the average in the European Union, but these 100 million should be allocated to somewhere else, not for tax relief to a higher middle class than is now predicted, but somewhere else. Here is also the issue of the title of the Economic Programme of the Social Democrats, which is for fairer taxes and the decommissioning of the middle class. If that is what we want, we should strive for such measures. This is also the difference between the Social Democrats and the United Left. On the one hand, you are betting on social dialogue, and in a way, I am saying that employers will never agree to a higher profit tax and, of course, they will always end this social dialogue. The only way to do that would be to radically reduce their income. On the other hand, if this happens, the unions will not allow it and we know what the conclusions of such social dialogue are. For example, trade unions have achieved something only when, in fact, this social dialogue has been replaced by a class fight. If we remember, in 2009, the rise in the minimum wage was made despite opposition from employers. The redefinition of last year's minimum wage was also adopted through the Economic and Social Council precisely because employers have withdrawn from the social agreement. In short, these differences are essentially crucial and important. Not to mention that, for your part, it is also depressed that, on the one hand, you are talking about how you calculated the minimum costs, but at the same time 50 000 people have been deprived of the security allowance and state pensions. In 2012, less than 60,000 people received these two benefits; in short, I am not talking about some small numbers. This year's average is only 10,000 more, although the crisis has somehow eased. However, if I turn to the question of interpolation itself, of course, as colleague Hanžek said earlier, we are distanced from what we have been listening to from the SDS all day today in the United Left. These aren't the real reasons why we should have to interview the Minister. It's more than that, some cheap political pear moves. However, we must all agree that the Minister is the most responsible for social policy in this country and, in fact, that is why the suspension is at this moment – and why we also support this interpretation – what can help us to move into some more social policy, because what the Ministry is currently doing is not. Of course, the resignation or replacement of the minister would not be enough, we should replace the government. That's clear to everyone, but maybe it's one of the preconditions. In her introductory reply or one of those praises, which in some way indicated what had happened at that Ministry at that time, the Minister did not mention housing, such as housing or rent subsidies. I'm talking about those subsidies that this government has abolished for a non-profit share of market rents. Of course, the Minister is not the only one responsible for these subsidies; she is not the only one solely responsible for their termination, but she is probably one of the most responsible for regulating this area. Right now, it shows that he's not going to do his duty to the end, either. Why do I say that? In the United Left, we have tabled an amendment to the Law on Access to Public Resources Rights, in which we are changing or restoring the situation as it was before the introduction of the notorious municipal ZUJF; in short, to remedy this injustice that has taken place with this abolition. We did so before the Constitutional Court ruled on this case and decided, we know that it is not a measure which would only be socially unjust, but a measure which is primarily unconstitutional. As far as we know the Minister's work, it is likely that the party's prestige will once again stand before people's interests, and this has been seen on several occasions if we recall the proposal for a single debt write-off law that we have proposed ourselves, the draft law on labour inspection, or the draft law on social security benefits, which eliminated the burden of real estate on recipients of a protective allowance. These are some of these cases of such practice and, if I remain in these subsidies, in principle, the Constitutional Court's decision is usually applied directly, so that is not the biggest problem, the problem is, of course, a refund or some compensation to those people back. These tenants were, of course, without subsidies, in some cases probably also giving up their apartments, moving to worse apartments, and perhaps even being employed at that time. The only thing that would be normal and, above all, fair would be to pay back this subsidy, including the corresponding interest. In doing so, the subsidy decision applicable until the expiry of the subsidy may be applied. This is one of the possible solutions. We will also propose this solution in the United Left, but we know the official position of the Minister. She said there wouldn't be any back-up damages, which means whoever wants this compensation will have to go to trial. This is, in a way, a sign of bureaucracy, which unfortunately must be described as characteristic of the ministry led by Minister Kopač Mrak. Of course, according to their ministry officials, they do not want to have any further work to do with these issues, but not those who are responsible for what has arisen are not socially threatened by those who have caused this complication, but by the government responsible and, as such, of course, must also accept this responsibility and address it. At the same time, we are talking here in some way about some kind of repression by the Ministry or the Minister, following the example of its former chairman, Dr. Svetlik, who is taking over the socially disadvantaged at every step. It is clear that many beneficiaries will not claim this compensation in court because, on the one hand, this is insanely complicated and also has to do with high costs. It is hard to expect that someone who is in a very difficult social situation would then be further burdened both financially and mentally. These are very difficult procedures in such cases and, of course, by reducing these claims or claims for compensation, the congregation will save money on the one hand and people will live in inhuman conditions. The same is true for social benefits, in 2012 it was Svetlik and Digač Dark who abolished the state pension – at the time there were 16 thousand recipients around – and transferred the PPIZ security allowance to the budget. State pensions were completely abolished and the security allowance became recoverable. It's just these policies. The number of recipients of the protective supplement has decreased by about 78%, so I think that these effects are quite clear and also eloquent what they mean. In this way about 50,000 of the most vulnerable groups were affected and we are talking about farmers, older women, disabled people and so on. It is a group that is undoubtedly poor, which is at the edge of society, and at the same time they have, if I cariculate, this accident that they own some real estate. These are some moments that clearly indicate that the simple work of the ministry, especially the ministers, is going in a direction far from leading social policy, but only some neoliberal policies that simply squander or save the poor and, on the other hand, do not return it anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my discussion, I would like in particular to touch on the developments that we have been following both in the National Assembly and through the media in the late evening hours. Somehow I got the feeling that there was some sort of shopping going on in the background, some trade, and it's forgetting the work that politics is doing and people in particular. Sometimes I also got the feeling that this, this situation is kind of like a campaign for the American presidential elections, but there's at least something funny about it, and unfortunately, it's getting more and more tragic; and it's been for a while. In my debate, I will address both the areas of social policy, employment and equal opportunities. In fact, there are very few people who talk about this, and I think the area of equal opportunities is very important. Slovenia is supposed to be a legal and social state under Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe that's what it sounds like, or when we're talking in the National Assembly that someone from here believes it, but if we're talking to people where we've come to the country after so many years, I think that people's trust is in the rule of law as well as in the social state at the bottom. We could say the paper carries everything, but people don't. And that's why, of course, there are more and more people who simply do paper like this. [[tear-off paper]] . While Slovenia should be a legal and social state, I would also like to say that it should be particularly fair and ensure equality of opportunity. Today, this equality of opportunity results only in increasing misery and equality in poverty, the middle layer disappears, and the proportion of socially disadvantaged and people on the poverty line is higher from day to day. Slovenia will ensure equality of opportunity at that time and, of course, it will be fair when each individual has the same opportunity to work, career advancement, to education, to health and not, as it does today, when everything is somehow through relationships and knowledge. Such practice should simply be discontinued. When we talk about social policy and there has been a lot of talk today, we are probably all concerned with the need to help those on the verge of survival as well as vulnerable groups. On the other hand, I cannot allow more and more taxation on both the economy and individuals alone, nor can I allow the introduction of ever-increasing bureaucratic barriers that drive away such foreign investments that I think could be discussed for two days in the National Assembly, as well as the expulsion of entrepreneurs and the working population abroad. When we talk about employment and the situation of young people in general, somehow most of the measures and legislation are targeted at a group of young people between the ages of 15 and 29. Unfortunately, politics has forgotten that, unfortunately, more and more people say, a lost generation, this is older than 29 years old, this generation that ended up studying at the beginning of the economic crisis, were educated for professions where they said the jobs were full and then everything fell overnight. And the fact that as many as two thirds of people between the ages of 15 and 34 live with their parents shows that we cannot and cannot conquer young people today. On the one hand, we have young people who barely get to work, is flexible, is unreliable, and on the other hand we have older people who have much safer forms of employment. Here is my appeal and my call for a new agreement, because politics has been forcing Slovenia into an intergenerational conflict for the past few years. We need a new agreement, a new deal, we would say, between all generations and stakeholders, not only in the National Assembly and members of the Economic and Social Council, because there is also a questionable representativeness. According to Eurostat, the risk of poverty among young workers has been steadily increasing in Slovenia over the last ten years. This was already 7.2% in 2013, which means that it has doubled in 2005. We also worked hard in the National Assembly in the area of the abolition of volunteer training. A few days ago, a deadline was reached for both the Government and the competent ministry to prepare legislative solutions to abolish volunteering, this so-called modern-day slavery. There are certain measures on the table, but I expected a lot more myself. The opposition, as well as I and my colleagues on the right hand side, have always been very constructive and made a lot of suggestions, but somehow in the end it is a matter of prestige, even unfortunately egoism, and that is why we are where we are. In the area of scholarships, I think some positive steps have been taken. The only thing that really bothered me was the execution of an invitation to tender for deficit scholarships, when, somehow, because of some bureaucratic mistakes at the Ministry, it threatened to apply the principle of who came sooner. Fortunately, the results were then abolished, otherwise he would have been the first to propose interpolation and discharge as Minister. However, when we are still talking about sport, I would be like an ex-sportsman myself, for 13 years I have been training a Jew, perhaps not seeing so much today, but I would still like to look for some solutions with which we can re-enact and take into account Zois' scholarship. In fact, I notice that there is an extremely large rash of young, promising, very talented athletes right in high school, after they go to college and then suddenly disappear. Probably because social policy as well as in the field of sport ignores this and does not deal with it. As one of the last points, which has also disturbed me very much, I could say, as Mr Breznik said before, that you are very innovative and very eager to deal with the new bureaucratic obstacles. I've been monitoring your work since you were Secretary of State, I think Dr. Svetlik. Even then, he himself was somehow very innovative and creative in setting up new bureaucratic barriers, otherwise under the pretext of fighting black work, but this measure since 1. 1. 2015 When personal supplementary work is carried out through the system of valuations, it is certainly a shot to the knee. In public, I obtained information that last year, during the year, 158 000 euros were obtained from valuations. Of this, PPIZ received 123 000 and the Health Insurance Office received a good 35 000 euros. The Finance Officer somehow tried to calculate last year the cost of establishing the same system, of course only the start-up costs – some quarter of a million euros. Also, as far as the debt write-off project is concerned, in this case, it was just a matter of pierre and exploitation of people on the verge of survival. But the law itself was designed so that people did not have much or hope at first, and in the end, even more despair. The problem of the long-term care of the elderly could be a lot to talk about, many of which are sent questions, visits to sent offices, but I will be running out of time. But such a project requires such cooperation between you and the Ministry of Health and also the President of the Government. But the reform of this government's charge is, as I have already said: it is modern to do nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. There were a lot of things, and I'm going to comment a little bit. It has already been exposed several times to the Constitutional Court to decide what the powers of the Minister of Interior are in relation to the police. It has to be said that it was 12. 11. 2001, here is the conclusion where it is clear that this is to be rejected. Why is it discarded? Because the contested provision does not directly affect the rights of legal interest or the legal position of the initiator. That's why it was rejected. So, it's purely misleading that the Constitutional Court has ruled on anything. However, the fact is that the police are an organ in the system and that this is a little different when it comes to social work centres. You have repeatedly invited the Secretary of State, myself and everyone else to a closed session or, otherwise, not to reveal the reasons. Once again, I would like to remind you of what the President of the National Assembly pointed out at the beginning of this meeting because he said: Data from ongoing procedures, or from those concerning individuals, are more protected than any State secret that Members have the right to observe and act with care. In the following cases, i.e. when it comes to the procedures under way and when it comes to an individual, none of the Members shall have access to their functions or their rights. That's a fact. So, I can't tell you whether you're calling me or not. And the fact is that these data are also not available in accordance with Article 93 of the Social Protection Act for professionals whom you call on the Commission and ask them to talk about it. But it probably doesn't matter. As far as maybe deficit scholarships are concerned, I would like to reiterate that the law was passed in the Government of 13. 3. 2013 The law on the content as it was, by procedures, how and how a tender must be accepted and implemented in the Fund for Grants and Development of Personnel. Such a law was passed by the National Assembly. 13. 3. – You can't tell me that, I wasn't a minister at the time. And after an invitation to tender had taken place — and indeed, we had provided these funds for the invitation to tender — I immediately corrected the law when it was possible that the invitation to tender was the next one. Second, about the family. It was true that we were giving money to one group and another, perhaps reminding you that ZUJF had taken 45,000 children’s allowances. I might remind you that this government has returned 97,000 families to the 5th and 6th grades of the children's allowance. As far as the bureaucratic obstacles you are mentioning are concerned, here is a reduction in the legislative burdens for the period 2009-2015. It is fully stated here that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has reduced the administrative burdens most. The total value of these reductions was €363.5 million in savings, of which €105.5 million was realized by the Ministry of Labour. Flats, otherwise I'm responsible for a lot of things, but I'm not only for housing policy. But it is true that I have tried my best to find 11 apartments in this country — not much, absolutely not, but I think we will help some. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the competent ministry, has adopted a resolution on housing policy, where I agree, also for young people, and housing policy for young people needs to be resolved. Social benefits, SPIZ. Maybe one more thing that I believe is often forgotten. The SPIZ, i.e. the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was rejected at the referendum, also had state pensions in it and could have been regulated in the amended Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was later adopted, as envisaged, even though most of the solutions to that law were very similar. At the same time, there might be another matter; yes, much is being said today about contacts, the court’s decision on how human rights were violated. Perhaps that is all I would have mentioned: it is probably the practice of the courts to find that human rights are violated, of course, they have the opportunity to abolish such a decision. At the first stage, the Administrative Court did not decide to do so. This is a fact and, on the other hand, it is a very important segment where old parents have a right under the law, but as far as contacts are concerned, contacts are one of the key elements that, according to the European Court of Justice, ensure the preservation of family life and today, the Celje Court has decided that contact with children should be established as soon as possible; when this happens, information is already in the public domain. So, procedures are running, and it's essential that these contacts were enabled, that there was an attempt to make a deal, but that again shows how all the things about this crime are going. And secondly, you say a lot that only court proceedings are ongoing, and the ministry as an administrative body still decides on stage 2, so it is unfair to speak and judge and make judgments on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor, to be prepared by the proposer, please, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. I just need to respond. Indeed, the Minister mentioned one decision of the Constitutional Court of 22. 11. 2001, I think we're talking about the same conclusion. This was an attempt to test the initiative of Police Director-General Mark Pogorelc, because he was an instigator and his decision was rejected precisely because in this regulation on the ways and means of exercising the powers of the Ministry of the Interior, he objected to the fact that the Minister was not obliged to provide the data, but, last but not least, after the 17th section of the Government Act, the ministers were responsible for the decisions and positions of the Government and for their implementation, for their decisions in the management of the ministries, as well as for the suspension of the measures to be taken. This particular decision of the Constitutional Court was most likely an initiative for a legal opinion which I had read several times before, but it was on 13. 12. 2001, prepared by the Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and issued an opinion – who? Professor Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Professor Dr. Igor Kouchič, Professor Dr. Franc City. Since it is clearly defined precisely because of this supervisory function, because this is the relationship between the Ministry and the authorities within the Ministry, it is precisely because of this supervisory function that you have to have these functions as Minister that you do not even have to perform. Thus, the statement you said earlier about this decision, yes, is rejected, but the initiative given by the then Director of Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Minister, Minister, all present! First of all, I would like to discuss this interpretation, which runs here today in the National Assembly against the distinguished Minister Dr. Anjo Kopač Dark. I will say so, too, I see this interpretation as one reason to solve today or to present all the problems in the field of social policy in this country. This case of the Korean boys was so widely represented by the media, so many problems are emerging in the public that we were affected by the conduct of citizens and citizens because we felt that there was indeed a great injustice to these boys and grandmothers and that the Constitution and constitutional rights of these people were being cut short or violated. We then heard that the social work centre was legally working, that it was working in accordance with the profession and that it was following the benefit of children in all matters. If that is the case, I think we must allow the profession to do its job so that we do not interfere in this matter, which is so highly professional and very, very sensitive. But when we discussed this interpretation in Desus, we also met with all the other problems of social policy and would present these problems and views that I have on these matters and that we have, of course, in Desus. If I first touch on this great social distress of the elderly, these poor social conditions in which they live, I must say that there are as many as 300,000 pensioners in Slovenia who live below the poverty threshold. This is a serious problem I can't get past, of course. In doing so, it must be said that the problem is even worse in single-member family communities; where a person lives and has all the costs to settle himself and then has little or little to live on. That's why I'm telling you, this is a real case when I look at the elderly who collect food from the suitcases, who collect other items both here in Ljubljana and Maribor, and believe me, I have a heartache. Because these are people who need a special relationship, special care, special treatment, and then you see him living in such poverty, digging through these wastes. And the fact that we are citing or mentioning that it also provides these poor with survival and the Red Cross with Karitas, I must say that this is very problematic, because the country is not proud of it. If I tell you what kind of food – I know these things very well – is shared in these seats of the Red Cross and Karitas, I tell you, basic foods, before the expiration of the term, especially those are reserves and it is very difficult for these people who live in this way. Then I'd stop with the elderly for a protective supplement. Under Svetlik's ministry, he became this protective allowance of credit, which the recipients or their heirs must then, of course, return. Hence, a large number of older ones have abandoned this protective supplement, and they no longer want to receive it, and there are some 33 thousand. There was also a percentage of it, so I think it's very problematic and something has to be done here. Because a protective allowance really needs someone who has so little pension that he doesn't have enough to survive. Demographic change and long-lived society is also one problem that needs to be discussed and this area is quite problematic in the care of older people. That is why in Desus we advocate the early adoption of the law on the long-term care of the elderly, and it is very difficult to expect the adoption of this law to take place. That is how I think that in this area the Minister should take the initiative to draw up this law as much as possible. Then project Older for the elderly. That's been said a lot today, but I'd like to say it again. See, this project is a very important project because it solves the problems of older people or older people who are still able to do a particular job, help older people and deal with their problems, which they cannot do anymore. So these elderly people who are organised through the ZDUS in pension organisations in individual places are, of course, doing useful work instead of the country and thus saving the country some resources. It is therefore necessary for the State to ensure that those minimum resources of the ZDUS are able to function and that they can continue to function because they are necessary. The big problem we see in Desus is also in the implementation of the youth employment policy and because this policy is unsuccessful, it is not effective enough, so young people are mass going abroad and I think it is wrong. We train young people, we invest in them, and then, as a result of these investments, other countries take advantage of these efforts. I think more will have to be done in this area. This Youth Guarantee project, which was implemented in 2014 and 2015 and allocated EUR 157 million for it, has proved to be ineffective in practice. Personally, I also miss measures in the field of employment policy for the unemployed between the ages of 22 and 50 – even today, the debaters have talked about this – including those over 50 years of age, and this is one population that is very problematic. A man who loses his job about 50 years or a year or two or three later, no one wants to hire him anymore. I think that the government or the ministry will have to make an effort to make sure that these people are still useful because they are still able to work, and of course they should be taken care of. If I mention a personal assistance program, help the disabled in all life's tasks. This is also an area to be settled. Well, last but not least, the distinguished minister said today that unemployment is falling, she also mentioned numbers. I am pleased with this information, but the number of unemployed is still too high in my opinion, and I think that the government should deal more effectively with those problems, particularly the problems of youth employment. But this is, as I said before, the biggest problem in employment and really young people have no prospects, they can't set up their own households, they can't think of a family, and so on; in short, they live with their parents, their lives, and that's not right. If I finished slowly, I'd say the following. Desus also advocates the formation of a reserve demographic fund. This is not just a matter of ministering, it is also a problem of other ministries and governments as such. We in Desus really stand up and expect this to happen soon. Finally, let me say that this noise between Desus and the SD is the result of all these unresolved problems, not just the minister's problem. Our Group's decision has happened spontaneously and we are here today. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, should end by mentioning also that when we presented all these problems and then said that we would not support the Minister, the SD president responded by mentioning that we have cow deals in Desus. I'm very sad, if it's true that all the problems of the elderly and our efforts to do this are to save ourselves if they're cow deals, then I don't know what to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Dr Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Minister, everyone who works, all the jobs you do at the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia protects family and family life in its article. We discussed the family in this mandate, which will soon be very busy by half, especially in 2015. Of course, family is the foundation of all the vocabulary, each individual. Last year there were experiments — one of course reaching into this base cell. I remember when the campaign was, the minister used a lot of time to do this and participated in a campaign to reach out to this family. I remember the picture when she took pictures with the group, because I wouldn't tell you who was at Prešeren's monument in Ljubljana. But, on 20 December, if everything were normal in the Republic of Slovenia, this minister should resign because many Slovenians made this clear throughout that week, they said at the referendum. The minister also said today that it is important what people think. I think that at the time, people were determined to tell them what their family meant, and they rejected all those who wanted to interfere with this family. Today, all day long, the President of the Government should be here. Not to defend the secretary. We've come to a special period where there's more and more squeezing between the three parties. Of course, some today are waiting for this meeting to pass as soon as possible, and even I suppose there will be a round of applause. But when I listened very carefully this morning to the position of the SD Group and the Desus Group of Members, it is a great signal that something is seriously wrong. And last week, I didn't talk to your coworkers at your department, on one another — 14 days ago. Someone who's been working at the Ministry for over 10 years tells me that it's never been as big a mess as it is now. The firefighter who was at the firefight this weekend in Cyprus, where there were over 3,000 firefighters, is coming from the government and they're buzzing him. Today we're talking about two boys who have happened to them in the past that we don't want. All those who are responsible today, I have in mind the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia in particular, but today we offer all possible services in the Republic of Slovenia. Today it was also said that the theft of these two boys on that day was a responsible act. What we are saying today in this national assembly is irresponsible. But the County Court in Celje, as you said, your distinguished minister, today gave at least a handful of sun to these two boys after this first request. All the experts you trust so much, you've walled a strong wall between these two boys and your old parents, and I think at least one brick from this wall has fallen for this decision today. I think that these cruel things are so far away that I should cut down on this decisively, Prime Minister of the Government, agree with you to step down; and with the two other parties in the coalition, seriously sit down as you work for the Republic of Slovenia. If it is the satisfaction of anyone in this Chamber today to conclude this meeting, we vote, and you remain the Minister, we can believe that we will meet again soon in another area. Let me finish with the Korean boys again, so let's talk about them all the time. Many times the media have been mentioned. Why have the media so blown up all over Slovenia? Because of the people who have been paid; you say they are experts, they have made many mistakes, many nonlife mistakes. But you, Minister, have politically covered them, but unfortunately it didn't work out. These two boys are certainly in those years they have, in a very sensitive period. Many such children in Slovenia are painting and looking forward to childhood. Parents take pictures of them so they can look at them in 10, 15 or 20 years. Very sad pictures of these two boys will be when you look at them. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know that when these two boys grow up, they ring your apartment once, and within 10 years, they ask you for your responsibility, for your responsibility, when you ran this ministry at a time when this brutal act occurred to them, for which no one in this Chamber is responsible. But the other part of the cruelty supplement is the responsibility of the service, and you are responsible for all the jobs because you are the minister of this important department. You've talked about your average pension before. Not so long ago, I noticed an entrepreneur paying a gross salary of EUR 560. I certainly wonder whether these pensions have been paid or are on some other lever or segment. In short, the situation in Slovenia is worrying and even more worrying when we listened to coalition partners this morning. This government, of course, does not work for the good of Slovenia by its actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms. Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mrs. Violeta Tomić Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What we are listening to today and has been appearing in the media for quite a long time cannot be proud of us, but it harms children and professions. Allow me to present to you, as the grandmother of four grandchildren today, my view of this case, which is the subject of interpretation today. I followed the beginning of the story when I was home in the hospital stock. I must admit, I was very upset when I saw my grandmother and grandfather crying with a bear in my hand on TV. How, though, can someone take their grandchildren away from them? I wouldn't have let that happen, I told myself. In time, when my feelings calmed down a little, I gave in, but I thought about it and wondered who it was. For Grandma and Grandpa's wishes or for kids? I asked myself a question in case a tragedy happened to my family or I could as a midwife provide enough quality growth for the little ones. Would you be able to provide consistent education, assistance in education, quality leisure and everything that children need and demand today? I've been thinking about becoming a mother to my grandkids. But we all know what the role of parents is. For 24 hours; not one day, weeks, months, years. And when I thought about it like that, I told myself I didn't know the answer. Because I love my grandchildren too much, I'm unrealistic about what I can and can't do. Dearly beloved, such sensitive decisions must be made by a professional who knows the family, independent, professional, realistic and just. For professional workers make legal decisions about the rights and protection of children. Here comes a very famous slogan for children! Regardless of the opinion of the supporters of the old parents, the profession decided on the greatest benefit for the child. True, though, if something like this happened in my family, I would like to maintain my role as a grandmother. I would therefore like to participate in the decision to choose the guardian, the foster father and the placement of the children. I would like to be as old as my grandmother has been, so that my children can visit me and my grandfather. So that we can maintain the right relationship. Maybe you'll judge me now. How could I trust my grandchildren with strangers? I know that every old parent would give everything for his grandson, and it would be hard to admit that physically or in any other way he can no longer provide quality care for his grandchildren. And there's a lot of things that your neighbors, relatives or other reasons don't hope for. What are the others going to say? Is it any of you who are grandparents, after the weekend of protecting their grandchildren, that they hope to admit to their parents that it has been arduous? As a grandmother, I understand and respect the desire of us old parents to have a grandson with us. However, I still believe that when it comes to children, it is up to professional workers, professional institutions to judge. If everyone were aware of this, that in such sensitive cases it is up to educated people to have knowledge and to try to make the best decision for the most vulnerable population, this is for children, I do not think that the interpretation of the respected minister would be today. For the profession followed only the benefit of children. However, anyone who feels that his rights have been violated has regular legal remedies and procedures, so I do not judge old parents who want to take care of their grandchildren. However, I condemn those who abuse their plight, legal agents who should also act in behalf of children and not advise old parents that it is better for children if they are not publicly exposed. No, instead, it seemed appropriate for an unannounced gentleman in the National Assembly to explain where and when I quote, "inseminated one of the children". Was that appropriate and for the benefit of the children? If the children had no contact with their grandparents for two months, could they have had them long ago if their representative had not advised them to reject the social work centre proposal? I also condemn the proponents who, with their quasi-righteousness, exploit the weakest, these are children and the elderly to build their popularity. I hope and wish that at least the children are spared watching these scenes, that they are going to live as long as possible carefree moments and that Grandma and Grandpa will find their way to the boys as soon as possible, and that they can continue to be loving grandparents. I will not support our Minister's interpretations, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister! I would like to say here today why I will support you today, why I will therefore vote against the interpretation. I will vote against interpolation because there is no valid reason in the proposal for interpolation for your withdrawal for which I could conclude that you should be suspended. Interpellation is irrelevant. Why – because it is based on a case that is not yet legally concluded, is not finished, it is dealt with by institutions, it is dealt with by a centre for social work – colleague Bah, now I am speaking, please, if I can continue – the case is not finished. I would like to ask again, since this has been repeatedly mentioned that we all understand together, we are not responsible for a specific case here. Parliament is not competent, the National Assembly is not competent to adopt conclusions on a particular case, which is not appropriate now, is appropriate, there is no need for a social work centre to do. We're not fit to do this! Yes, as we can discuss, Parliament can discuss everything, we have already heard that, we must not take democratic rights to discuss, whatever we remember; but the conclusions on what will be allocated to children are not our competence. Please, colleague. This is a competent social work centre when a dispute arises. [[…]] I'd like to ask that, too, colleagues, when you're talking about the court and now the minister is supposed to say that everything is going to go to court and that they're hiding in court. It is the court's decision when there is a dispute and there is no concealment. If necessary, there is jurisdiction in the law, when the court decides and the court decides. Yes, the Supreme Court ruled in the case of a provisional order, said yesterday that the child should remain – this is not the final decision of the institutions which are competent to decide the matter. We agree on that. All of us here together, given the nature of the matter, which is confidential, can only assume what the facts are. This is also done in public, and somehow we encourage it here in this way when we discuss something that we simply cannot know enough or not know enough because we have no data because we are not a party to the process if you want. Yes, in Parliament we can discuss the overall regulation of social policy if, on the basis of a particular case, you probably thought that, we find that something is wrong, then we can look for solutions, we can figure out what we as a Parliament can do – which is within our competence. For example, we had the opportunity in Maribor to attend a thematic session at the Employment Institute, where the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Meeting was held, to familiarize ourselves with the work of this Employment Institute, the Maribor District Unit, and there, respected fellows from the opposition, were not you, was only a representative of the United Left. There we could talk about a lot of things, but also about what the situation is like for us in the employment office, but it's also part of the policy run by this department, but you weren't. So much for this terrible commitment to this problem. Why I warned you that we can't, I mean, we can discuss, yes, we can discuss, but we can't take any definitive conclusions in a particular case, whether they should go to the old parents now, or to the foster parents, or whatever – we are not competent for this. [[…]] Because with this, and this is my deep belief, we challenge the authority and confidence of the state authorities, which are competent to decide on specific matters. Therefore, the Centre for Social Work and the Court are competent to decide on a specific case for the adoption of conclusions, expert conclusions on what to do, how to decide in this case. I believe that such a challenge to the authority of social work centres, state institutions, the courts harm us all. At least that's how I feel about the work of these organs as a whole. We cannot and certainly cannot decide on the basis of one single case. So, the social work centres can decide in a thousand cases, there is no dispute, there is no complaint, and no one will point to it, but there is one case, two cases in which the public, on the basis of the lack of data to which there is no access, thinks that something was wrong, and then, on the basis of this, it creates some impression that everything is wrong in these bodies. Well, let's see, let's say, I'm not going to expose the court now, social work center. According to statistics, at the end of May there were 696 foster parents and foster parents in Slovenia. And if we look at the reason for assigning children to foster care, there are various reasons: inadequate family and social conditions – 330 children, inability of one or both parents to care for children – 267 children, the death of one or both parents, excessive consumption of alcohol by one or both parents. Thus, many cases of social work centres have already been placed in custody, and we have not dealt with this in Parliament with specific cases nor has anyone protested before, I don't know, social work centres or the ministry. Therefore, it is necessary to have the full picture that we can conclude on possible irregularities and that we can take action on this basis. The conclusion based on one case, which someone has just decided to expose to the public, is useless, harmful to the institution as such. I don't think that's what we want. None of us want to come to the social work center where scared people work. You've got, you're in trouble, it happens a lot of times that we're in trouble, it might seem to someone that it's far from being able to do that, but I know that there are situations when you're in trouble and you want someone, a employee who's a sovereign who knows his job, and who's not scared that every time he makes a decision he has to make, all of a sudden, all of Slovenia, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, all the media, because some decision has to make. A staff member at the Social Work Centre has no choice but to decide, the same must be decided by the judges on a case he has before him, which is not his choice to have. Let me ask you a question. Imagine that at the Centre for Social Work, I will not say in court, your sister works, brother, mother now in public with such excessive connotation, increasing the emphasis on these negative cases creates the impression that there are only non-professional, unscrupulous – that I do not use any more words. [[…]] What's the result? As a result, those who work at the social work centre – if you have talked to workers at social work centres – tell us that the customers behave because of all this media drive very much, how can I say that they are already hostile in many cases to the employees of the social work centre. But is that what we want? We want to create this climate? I think you really need to get a real picture based on some analysis of a large number of cases, if you want all the cases, and then give some assessment of whether a certain thing needs some improvements and corrections or not. Much depends on our relationship. We have a lot to do with social work centers ourselves, with doctors, with schools, and I don't know what, a hospital. I don't have a problem with any of my employees anywhere, because I do, I can say what a positive relationship I expect from them is good. I'd like to put this on everyone's soul somehow. Well, if we expect bad from the employees, from anyone, we'll get it. I would be happy if we could see in some positive light and also expect workers at the social work centre to do something good, because I am sure that they are doing their job very well, that things are still to be improved, but if we expect bad from them, we will get bad, and we can't get another. Today's interpolation seems important to me because we can also review the Minister's work so far. We can do some inventory of what she's done so far. Of course, the minister herself did not say that everything is in the best order; there are many things that need to be complemented, repaired, upgraded. And the honourable Minister, as far as I'm concerned, my experience in working with you, I can say, is a great plus that we have passed the Protection Against Discrimination Act and that independent equality body. All support has also been shown for the future law on integrated treatment of children with special needs and several pages could describe what has been done. What we rightly expect and what has been mentioned many times is the reorganisation of social work centres. But here I am laying on your heart, but we really need to listen to those centres for social work, the practice of what solutions need to be taken and maybe take into account the specifics of some major centres for social work and strongly, strongly resist – here I believe my colleague Prikl is listening to me now – centralisation and somehow we want to take into account the specifics of Maribor, which is really specific to the situation we have in this city. The second future achievement, which is now in public debate, is the Family Code. This is a project not only of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but also of the Ministry of Justice. Professor Vesna Rijavec said at a lecture related to this or a seminar related to this transfer of jurisdiction to the courts – now I am quoting her that you will not think that I am stealing foreign words – "Let us do this for man, not for multinationals". The family code will, as set up, of course it can be improved, and this is meant to be discussed, it really means something good for relations between parents and children and for children. I hope very much that we will be able to accept it and that all those who are now filled with the mouth of what we will do, how we will have to settle matters and what we do not know to cooperate, and that they will not lock up on some things again, so that we will finally get this modern family code. If I only mention the question of extending parental rights, custody, supervision of the social work centre, how the custodian spends money and so on. There are many things that concern a wide number of people, much broader than, say, the same sexual orientation that would like to make a marriage relationship, which has caused this code to fall in the past. There will also be a lot to consider regarding the transfer of jurisdiction to the courts, namely, how many of these cases, some statistics will be obtained, whether or not the courts can adapt to this. Many questions are still open, as well as when the law will even enter into force. We do, I believe that we have enough time to discuss this and that we really do accept the right solution. I am very actively talking to my fellow judges about this, and I must say that this is a very welcome competence, but we must do everything we can to not expect too much just from the transfer, to do everything we can to make it really effective, and then we will not only bear the authority and also the guilt and responsibility of the courts, which are also used to these roles, and I am sure they will do a very good job. I hope, then, that some of the dilemmas that now arise in the proceedings at the centres of social work will also be resolved because of the nature of the fair and unfair proceedings themselves, i.e. the proceedings before the courts. We still have work to do on the long - term care and personal assistance law; something that is particularly on my mind is a more difficult social protection law for those who are mentally and physically affected, namely, those who are no longer in school, and cannot work at all than those who are disabled. There are still a few regulations that we need to work on, and I believe that we will accelerate work on all these projects and that your work will continue successfully. I will certainly vote against the Minister's interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms. Susana Beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I've said it a few times, but it's obvious that sometimes in this national council, things have to be repeated, that somehow we understand each other. I agree with colleague Murgel; the National Assembly is not competent to decide the case. We don't decide this case here today. We don't decide who the child should be assigned to. We are only talking today about irregularities and this is the topic of interpretation; irregularities in the procedures and responsibilities of the Minister for this. That's what we're talking about. However, I fully agree that we are not responsible for the decision-making process. As far as the Supreme Court is concerned. Yeah, we're the same here. It was an interim order. I agree with what you said. I do not agree, however, that the Supreme Court ruled yesterday, and it ruled about a week ago. But it is true that the information was made public yesterday. As regards the field meeting of the Labour Committee. She was in Maribor. I was very happy at the start, but given the topics it might be nice that if we were already in Maribor to visit possible centres for social work Maribor. Actually, there's a lot to talk about. Finally, the reorganisation of the centres in the future will also make sense, and from this point of view, to get to know the work and how things work with them. Last but not least, under the auspices of this CSD, some of the irregularities that I mentioned earlier have been related to the homeless shelter, which I believe the Minister is also aware of. The minister herself said that social work centres needed reorganisation. Last but not least, an invitation to tender for the acquisition of an external contractor has been issued, perhaps you already have, since the invitation to tender has already expired and was published by the end of March. Someone is looking for project management services in the CSD restructuring project in Slovenia and plus communication strategy preparation and implementation services in support of the reorganisation of social work centres in Slovenia. Again, I don't know what you're going to spend your taxpayer's money on. For the first time, I wonder if there are really not enough experts at the Ministry capable of reorganising social work centres, and for the second time, I wonder why you need a communication strategy to support reorganisation. In the light of past experience, I know that the Ministry works in such a way that every project is widely advertised, as debt write-off was also one of them. But I think citizens, citizens, if they know anything, really know social work centres. I believe that a good presentation will be made, especially if there is a change to any legislation that concerns us in the National Assembly, and this legal procedure will be carried out on a regular basis, so that there will be enough time to discuss that new reorganisation project to make it known to the general public in such a way, without particularly spending their money. Because I'm really wondering if this is all necessary. It was said that a real picture should be made based on analysis. Yeah, that means what? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Do you have any time stamps when this reorganization will actually occur, given that half of this mandate has expired? And I really wonder -- I mean, I don't have words -- why do we need that? Don't we have so many people in the Ministry who are capable of this and on the ground? We're talking about some experts all the time. To reorganize them, or to find the right one to do these things again – you probably already know who it will be, according to established practice. I'm really wondering why we'd need this. There's been a lot of talk about successful projects, and I'll mention it myself. We were talking about one here not long ago, I think at a previous meeting of the National Assembly in April – a valedictorian who was not supposed to know how to reduce work to black, who was supposed to not know what contributed – all day for a possible month working on a pension basis to someone. In fact, we know that with them there are more costs than actually revenues and, of course, some unnecessary administrations. And you haven't cut your work on the line with this, Your Honor, perhaps quite the other way around. Another such, very forced pear, your project, was this debt write-off. Given that we have 290,000 people below the threshold of poverty, I believe that people have been happy, finally something that will come close to us, something that will help us. How much was said? A million euros or how much is to be split? But the agreements have been signed. 120 congregations, I don't know how many companies, it was all media coverage, we signed this congregation, if any of them aren't, they are already — yes, why didn't you sign it? What is the effect of this, distinguished minister? How many people have you actually helped with this? And how much you are actually for this communication strategy that you have implemented in this regard, I believe that also with the help of an external consultant, because you obviously do not have someone within the Ministry who can cover it. How much did you spend on that at the time? But you have written off the debt — how much? 150 people or what's out of the media. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has also approved some 133 applications, a total of just over €4 000. Ask yourself! Sometimes you make fun of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As for the very case of interpolation, which we are primarily talking about today, I think it is good to repeat what we are reading in this interview with the Minister. This was a disproportionate intervention in constitutionally protected human rights, which was finally confirmed by the Administrative Court at the first stage. All public authorities, the public authorities, including you, the distinguished minister, should take primary care of the child's interests and, as Minister, you are, of course, obliged to ensure that you properly adapt the legislation to ensure that the procedures are in accordance with the law and that, finally, your subordinates, if they are not aware of it, also instruct them to do so, give them appropriate instructions on how to act. We also see your involvement in the politicization of the work of social work centres. I hope that this reorganisation will also change this, but I reiterate, we have highlighted the case of Slovenj Gradac. This would not be a problem if a person were an expert, if they had the relevant experience, but the experts in that area warned the employees that they did not have the appropriate work experience in the field of social protection; but regardless of what happened, they provided the majority of the world and confirmed him as a director. But what's most painful? The fact that this person probably had no professional experience led to an irregularity. And what's worse? You've been trying to cover up these irregularities, Minister! In your public appearance on April 6th, you defended the opinion of the Social Inspectorate, who took control. Before that, you have been familiar with many facts, I believe you know the procedures, or at least ask those who know them well. See, if politics overwhelms the profession, which in this case is the appointment of the director at CSD Slovenia Gradec, then it is also right that in this case the policy fits and that is why we are reading it to you. If there had been no mistake, it probably would not have been a problem, the media would have written something about it – but it is not a problem. The problem is when there's a mistake, as in this case. Someone will say a small mistake; yes, they sent a little too late, but this error had consequences then in further procedures because it was not decided within the legal time limit. That's the problem. Finally, you have not prepared legislation to protect children's rights and because of all the events that are taking place, and also because of this case, believe me, many citizens and citizens are losing confidence in the institution of the social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President. I just need to intervene quickly that the sentence that I was covering up irregularities is inadmissible. This interpretation speaks of me as having to arbitrarily interfere with the competences of other institutions such as social work centres, and I have been very clear about this since the morning, explaining the competences, but you're inflamed, you're repetitive. At the press conference, if you could look at it, I explained that I was explaining the findings of the social inspection. If you are already mentioning all the facts, it is correct that the social inspection has taken control of Velenje’s Centre for Social Work, which led the process of taking the child and putting the child into the foster family. The Centre for Social Work, which you mention is that I'm hiding and I don't know what, as I know, is interesting, but hiding in the way that the Director resigns when things are discovered – I don't know, it's covering for you. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Prepare yourself, Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u108	I will not define myself in the case of the Korean boys, because I do not agree to such methods of political action, which, from some quasi-just or better mental state, gather people on the streets and thus exert pressure on the media, on judges, on social workers, on refugees, on doctors, on women who have abortions; in short, such yogurt revolutions are the recipe for disaster, but there are several reasons why Anja Kopač Dark should be excluded, and especially that the government and the entire Government are putting the interests of the privileged people before the interests of the socially disadvantaged. Let me just touch the case of school lunch subsidies. The Coalition continued the proposal of the United Left to be scaled down, then instead of starting the school year only in January, instead of allowing the children of the second poorest class to benefit from the full subsidy, they were eligible for only 70 %, the children of the third class for 40% and the subsidies for EUR 9 million, and it is clear that only 4.8 million would be spent by September, given that less than 2 million had been spent. Up to now, only 75% have been used, not because parents would not be informed, but because they simply could not assess whether they would be able to pay or not. If you are entitled to a 100 % subsidy, then it means that lunch is free, but if you have to pay for it, it can be too much for many, and especially harder to assess whether you can afford it or not. In short, the government looked at every cent at children's lunches and, on the other hand, allowed senior officials with the novel ZPIZ to receive 20% of their pension in addition to their salary. On the other hand, she spent 2.8 million euros plus 1.8 million for a barbed wire on the border for only the first 11 kilometres of the panel fence, which is ridiculous, pathetic, unstable and would not stop anyone – go look at it! She spent 1.2 million on mixed military police patrols to capture them – watch out! – 5 people, one Syrian citizen and two Albanian citizens and two Serbian citizens. Wow! In the meantime, the social concern of civil society and shame is that in Slovenia, where we have a constitution, it is stated that we are a social state, the welfare of children is cared for by the charity Friday for smiles, and that good people are gathered in Slovenia – usually those who do not have much, because they are the only ones who are able to empathise. In short, civil society does what officials should do because they are paid for it, civil society does it pro bono. In short, poverty, co-workers and colleagues is unconstitutional, the Minister has completely ruled out the issue of poverty in her defense, and this is where her ministry should work most. In the 2010 Europe 2020 strategy, Slovenia has promised that the number of poor and socially excluded will be reduced by 40,000 and, in fact, they have increased by as much as 44,000 since then. According to the latest data, there are 410 thousand. There are 290,000 people living below the poverty threshold, most of which is in modern history and, in particular, long - term poverty is on the rise. And here's the key error of the ministry. The minister said that she was proud because she was a Social Democrat, colleague Han had put on a red tie for this opportunity, and I say, the tie is a tie, even if red and social democracy is not yet a socialism that can only save people who live and live no longer. If it is true for you children, then respond to the calls of the United Left in the fight against poverty, because people are not unnecessary costs; people are – if I express themselves in the language of capital to make you understand better – investment, especially children on which our future is based. They have the right to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to everyone, including the government representatives. I think that once again, on our part, some of the reasons for our decision, which is certainly strange in the sense that, as a coalition partner, we support interpellation, we should say, because of those who think as we do and who may not approve of it, because they do not know the main reasons, but also because of the reaction of the President of the Government, who was, I think, unjustifiably critical of us. I must say that if the President of the Government, who was the reason for our disapproval of the work of the Minister for Labour, is not concerned, I must say that he is concerned about me because we have talked about domestic recruitment, and if this is not enough reason to worry, then of course I do not know what is good enough to raise the issue that needs to be resolved here. It is simply a matter of facts that are really important to us and reach out to us in an area that is far closer to us; it is an area of social work, of family, of older people, of everything that we stand for. Minister Anja Kopač Dark of course knows his area well. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that, in this area, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already, I think, around seven years and therefore, no doubt part of the responsibility for the poor situation in this area bears no doubt. I would not go into detail for substantive reasons, which have already been quite said in past discussions. But it is the fact that each thing has two sides of a medal; one, as it were said, is knowledge of the area, and the other, of course, what is actually done in this area. And it was done, in our opinion, too little. This is also the reason for our refusal to continue leading the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on its part. The second reason that we think is important and I have mentioned it is those who at least like to hear it, which are the least understood and even the least tolerated, that is the question of personnel. This is also a key issue in the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the current composition. Last but not least, this issue, as has already been said in the debate, is also related to today's content of interpolation, by solving the problem — or whatever we call it — of the Korean boys. It is important to know that the Centre for Social Work, which dealt with and led this problem, has actually been led by a man who was incompetent for this area, who was literally forced, politically appointed to this place and therefore has to assume the responsibility of Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. Therefore, it was necessary to change the board of the institution, so it was necessary not to know any reception that a member of the SD, a man who I think was or is not leading the SD in that area appointed Director without any professional competence, came. My question is whether the behaviour of this centre for social work in the case of competent professional management would be different, as was the case in this reporting case, which, at least as far as we can say, was led in an inhumane, inhumane way, and I will not go into legality and illegality, nor into the very content of who did the right thing and who did the wrong thing. However, the fact is that the centre for social work, under the guidance of a man who was politically abused and named, was unprofessional and that is why this man had to withdraw. How would the English say, "Easy come, easy go." As he came, he had to leave quickly to protect the name, of course, Minister. Why am I exposing this? Because we have on the other hand, on the other hand, at the other end of Slovenia, a similar case in a small place, where we are sensitive. Only with this small difference that we are talking at the other end of Slovenia about a man who is running for office as director of the home of senior citizens, who has all the support of the professional public, the local environment, all the competences, all the experience, but has been harassed and challenged by the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs and the mayor, who happens to be a member of the SD, for one year. I think that these are the methods that were used in another period, and today they should no longer be. I agree that when we have discussed this, it may indeed be a meaningless home for older citizens at some end of Slovenia, perhaps indeed; and it is also a very bad reason to cause any instability in the government. But at the same time, I am beginning to worry about a tolerant attitude towards this work, which is obviously not important enough – what will be one home of older citizens compared to the big stories, the things we talk about in the National Assembly! But in this case, there are many more open questions. And once again, what worries me about all this is exactly the relationship of the Prime Minister of the Government, who marked some prestigious battle between Desus and the SD, czech, probably the rooster among themselves, who's going to have five more voters, who's going to have five less, which is not the point of the problem. The point of the problem, once again, is in the frame-up, that's a fact. In addition to, of course, the mentioned shortcomings in the substantive area carried out by this Ministry and the results in the field of work, family, social affairs. Today, I don't think he's among us who could say the situation is good. It is probably true, as stated in our opening presentation, that the case of the Korean boys would have been if the family code had been adopted in time. I'm afraid he wasn't. Perhaps for the end only so much: if the case of such domestic recruitment is irrelevant to the President of the Government as well, I am deeply concerned, because if such a method of recruitment is irrelevant in other areas too – you need to know that we are talking and the current problems of Luke Koper, the current problems of the New Ljubljana Bank – then I am really afraid of where we will end up if these are irrelevant issues. There are important questions for Desus, we are aware that you can't avoid also appointing candidates by political parties, of course you can't avoid them, but it still applies to the fact that the matter has never seemed to me and it won't seem to me that it would be disputed until you can prove that you've named someone who has experience with knowledge that is competent and you can expect results. But when you name someone who you can know in advance that he's not clear about anything except that he's accepted a responsible place, then that's a big problem. Desus and I will certainly not agree to this, and we will therefore be even more careful with such support and neglect of such facts when we talk about personnel in other areas. I'm afraid this will be on the agenda very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u111	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Chairman. What were we actually talking about today? In fact, on those pages we are constantly being taught and explained that there is only one topic that we can and must talk about. Listen to me very carefully, proposer, because I'm sure you'll answer. We were talking about making marriages at home, abroad, and someone who was not happy to be able to do so on a public holiday. We were talking about terrorism, we were talking about Brexit, we were talking about homophobia, about the political concepts of individual political parties, the actions of the minister in previous mandates, who is the independent, we were talking about the home of older citizens in Lendava, the retirement allowance, the referendum, the minimum wage, when Members understand or know a thing, in the end even the police, and we touched on the coalition contract a little bit. Why am I saying this? I speak because I listen to the proposer all the time, what is actually the topic. But I'm actually listening to the darkness all the time. Let's make up your mind when you do the interpolation, which is what you're really going to talk about. You have written in your proposal what is the subject and subject of this debate. Vice President, in the middle of another procedural one, you'll be watching a little bit. We've all been notified on one piece of paper what is the subject of interpretation. We got all the other documentation in a closed drawer as confidential because it's personal data. But I don't know why this proponent is making a fool of us all and why we're dealing with these classified information, but if in fact the SDS publishes an open-ended full report on its website, with all the personal data. This is a matter for an information officer. At least let them pay if they think they're gonna do it to teach them a little bit. Anyway, we're all on the tray now, and we're all paying for some things now. What really bothers me about the whole thing is that I keep trying to know and understand what we're going to talk about today. And the more I listened to the proposer, the more I listened to individual presentations and, last but not least, to the debates of Members and Members, the more I found something missing so that I could really talk about it. I'm missing the following things. I've read a complete brochure of all the published articles on this subject. I have read everything the Ministry has prepared for us to know about what was done or what the situation is. I've read the Minister's complex response to the entire interpolation. I read what we got in the closed drawer, but everyone can read on the SDS website. But I'm missing the basics. There's one thing I don't understand. In the beginning, he stood up and said that the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court had ruled legally. Then I hear a proposer saying something else entirely, as her group leader has said. And he said, "No, the Supreme Court didn't decide the content at all, but it just left the children in foster care." My colleague, let's be patient, don't be nervous, because I know this is your first time, they've given you an important task, because you're going to be next in line, just calm down. What is important about the whole matter is whether we are Members and Members of Parliament who are armed with enough information and have the authority to discuss, for the first time, what you have proposed and what is even more important, even decide something in the end. And this is to cut off someone's head, because in fact, it has nothing to do with it. My colleague, will you listen to me, please? You will, yes. Well, and what's important is particularly important because of one simple thing. Today, the proposer has asked quite a few specific questions and I am interested in these questions. She said someone forced the children or violent action. I want to know what's brutal, and what kind of action has happened. I just don't understand now whether in this country something really forceful is being done by some authorities that have some authority when they take children anywhere. I think that's irresponsible. It is indeed irresponsible that you use time and space here to make such statements. Because in the end we will really think in the Republic of Slovenia that we are doing this in the way you do or say it. Personally, I have to say that when I listened, although some of you are incredibly dissatisfied, I also listened to Mrs Gabi Čačinović Vogrinčič's statement, by the way, graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana in 1966 and graduated from the Faculty of Arts in Ljubljana in 1987, I am speaking because you spoke so disrespectfully about her, later she was an expert at the Sorbonne in Paris and at the Campler Institute in the Netherlands, studying the problems of family and family therapy, psychosocial assistance to families, the author and co-author of several monographs, she was a lecturer at the Faculty of Social Work, not least in this area she did more than all Members here together, who might think for a moment that we know anything about family work or psychotherapy or assistance to such people. Her opinion is certainly more valid and it means nothing to me, and I was very happy and calm when she said that, of course, she did not imagine that we would do it in a classic way, as seen in Hollywood films, when the police came to the family and the market of the child from the hands of the parents. And of course, it happened somewhere else, away from the eyes, and, God forbid, the media would be there to record it and show it because I'm imagining this show. We'd have a canvas there, and we'd have a projection of how this whole thing happened. And it does seem irresponsible to me that we throw swords like this and spit on all institutions just for one purpose, and that is political abuse. Today you have again hijacked the interpolation for your stale political attempts, which you use only for your own needs and for satisfaction, because you think you will satisfy your blood with your 20,000 voters, who are boasting at every speech you come to. That's irresponsible. Comrade Tank, sit down, it'll be easier for you to follow, not show me what you don't need. Vice President, may I?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u113	Please, let's calm down. Mr Möderndorfer, please close the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u114	I don't allow anyone to communicate with me non-verbally during my discussion, and I can respond verbally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u115	You speak your mind, Mr. Möderndorfer, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u116	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. What is important is that we keep on paying attention to one thing. Today you also spoke about the family code and you were asking me questions about why it took so many years to wait, why the Minister did not come up with this proposal earlier, which would settle a number of questions that might not even have been interpreted today, because there would have been a completely different way of talking to each other. Of course, I agree, but you haven't said anything, and let's be honest about it today. Although I see that Comrade Pojbič is not because today he has had some homophobic outbursts again, but regardless, the fact is that the family code fell only because of one topic, not because of 80%, because you all then praised that it was a good marriage and you finally got to the point that we went to the referendum. Then, of course, it's a one-year moratorium. After a one-year moratorium, imagine that this same law would come because of these same issues, because if there were no darkness, we would not be going crazy here anymore, but everyone on this side would go crazy. And it would be the same result. The family code wouldn't come through, and it would happen again whatever it takes and what you have as one big shit actually like very much. Until we solved the partial question, not the whole, part of the issue of the same-sex partners, the Minister could not come to the door at all with a proposal for a family code. Under no circumstances. Because he'd be doomed to failure in the future. And you have to admit that. When we adopted this a few months ago, we have this law in Parliament or in public debate today, and we are waiting for what further discussion will bring. But I am looking forward to today, and I am happy to live in the 21st century, where all the magnetograms are made, because I am waiting for you in this debate, because I will hear and draw out everything you are flinging today, I will see how you will discuss when the family code is here and when we talk about what is not appropriate today at the CSD to go to court. Then we'll see, because you love these courts. Then we'll see! The joy and everything you give us to eat is only to convince us that this court is a mess and that in this case it will be even worse. Unless your leader doesn't like it if they post something on Facebook. You'll leave him alone. An important issue that needs to be clarified before we complete this interpolation is one more thing. Why is it that there is such a debate, what I mentioned at the outset, that we are talking about all the topics, only the ones that are not, which is actually the topic that you have proposed? Because we don't know the facts. Because the proceedings are ongoing because no decision is yet legally binding. Although that's what you call it after everything's legal. Where's the legal protection you keep referring to? He's not here. In any other case, you would speak in a completely different way, and you would have had a theme on your head. Everything would go backwards from what you're saying today. And most often today's word is a famous word that you've loved in recent years: a child's rights. That's what lies with you, I don't know – were you born with that word? It's definitely not about the kids. Definitely. Not with this interpretation. You're using the word "children" and you're using two boys or children because I don't even know what they are, because I don't even know the names that are actually the instrument you're operating with today. And we can all be ashamed of having to talk about this subject at all. I heard a colleague earlier who said how they were going to be, I don't know when these two kids are going to grow up, and so on. I don't want to hear any more of this because their damage has been caused several times. First a personal tragedy, and now we systematically plan to do this damage to them. And we're gonna mark them, and if we're hiding this data, we're not doing anything else. And that's irresponsible of this House. Indeed, the greatest responsibility would be to wait at least for those authorities to judge and do this work in peace. How many adoptions or, I'm sorry, how many have we had recently taken children? In 2009 24, in 2010 35, in 2011 47, in 2012 45, 2013 48, 2014 38, 2015 32 and 2016 to 31. 3. Seven withdrawals. Why don't you bring every withdrawal to Parliament? I'm sure someone else will ever complain in some administrative procedure. And you won't believe it. I'm sure there's an average of 20 withdrawals per year if we add all these numbers together, and on average there are at least two complaints in the administrative procedure. Why don't we bring interpolation to this story every time? Interesting. No, now you remember, in this case. Because you work for the people because you work for justice. I'm sorry, we're doing damage, mistrust, and a planned collapse of the system. Let's say it's a hypothetical election tomorrow. Let's say tomorrow you hypothetically win the election. And let's just say, even though I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that this doesn't happen to you, to put the government together and sit there. I'll say, this system doesn't work. That's when you turn the board around. You start carrying information about how great everything is, how everything works, how little things don't work, and you'll sort it out. You imagine that your supreme leader would be the Prime Minister. Again. I'd ask him why he didn't pawn his name and direct his policies so that this would happen before he did anything to the courts. What you now expect from the Minister. And if the Minister had done anything, then I would have triggered an interpellation against her. Because then it's time to imagine what the minister is doing and when he's interfering with certain procedures. No, of course you'd like to. In any case, we want something to happen, even though you know we'd use it at the same time, because you're never okay with anything. The fact that you're in charge is right, that's your job. However, by using it on behalf of supervision to trigger certain things in the name of your political struggle, this is seriously wrong. We've got another little thing. I just don't have to pass, though, I have to say that sometimes I'm sick of commenting on it. But it's an MP, it's not anyone, and he's been talking in public. I'm talking about my colleague Pojbich. There he had a show, a theater, about who the funds could be shared and who didn't. And then he said, "Why don't you give the old ones to the poor?" Yeah, have you ever thought about it, but do you think gay people just die young or something? What if they're old and retired and the poor are there? How, then, can one member afford such a way of thinking? That's absurd! I'd imagine what I'm doing. This, I'm sorry, not that I don't like it, it's simply unworthy and it's not worth this Parliament. Everyone's afraid I'll raise my voice, every time I do, every time someone says something like that. Once you're quiet, you're forever quiet and next time it's your turn. Then we have another little thing. Mrs Eva Irgle continues to complain that no one else wants to join her committee. If I were a minister, I'd never come to your committee, which is instructural. Believe me, no. Although I listened to the debate last time, and I must say it wasn't bad at all, yes, it wasn't bad. But it was a prelude to this, and I even listened to it, and you even examined it. Now I'd like to talk to you about something that seems very important to me. And this is for the Minister. I don't like social work centers. She knows this because I've told her this many times, and I'm extremely dissatisfied with them. It was confirmed, even on the committee, that some found that I had not even thought of listening to Mr Muntz's debate, as old as our country, I would say. That's not true. They're older. By the number 62, I never thought there were as many congregations as there used to be. So we can figure out what period they're from. And to this day practically, except that they've been given new and new administrative tasks and that, I'll say, we're multiplying them in terms of some functions, in fact, what really radical changes have not been made. That is why I look forward to the debate and look forward to this reorganisation of social work centres and to a few simple tasks being handed over to the courts. And here you are, Minister, to correct this, and more importantly to really make one transformation. Not just administrative. I want to have social workers among the people, on the road. Social street walkers are a form of action where we can actually get concrete results and concrete help. That won't solve all the problems, so we don't have to think about it. Far from it! But surely the previous detection, a better understanding and an easier attitude towards the individual subjects they deal with. Sitting in offices and going administrators – someone said we produced bureaucrats, yeah, we made them. When you give them tasks, when you give them administrative procedures, when you prescribe forms, they end up doing just that and chasing dates. And whoever's working is wrong. That's why I always say they're not bad people working in CSDs, but it's a bad system. And this system makes a stiffness, and a lot of the time, there are mistakes. Are the mistakes so big that today the minister has to leave? No, no, no. Unless we prove her illegal. And with that, come to the interpolation next time. You've put it in so many times, but you can't put it in right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u117	Mr. Joseph Horvath, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u119	Mr. Horvath, I'm sorry. On a procedural basis, Mr Tanko wanted it earlier because he has the advantage. Excuse me, Mr. Jože Tanko, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I think we have pointed to some things, Mr Vice-President, already in the procedural work at the beginning of the meeting. The SDS Group has tabled this interpretation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules in force in this National Assembly. The matter shall be duly filed, with all necessary annexes, explanations and facts. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is in line with that. The Minister referred to the President of the National Assembly and challenged the correctness of the intervention. All those who step into the Defense Minister at least read the answer to the Legal and Legal Service. We're talking about political responsibility. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and, perhaps, for what is objective in this case, in the works which she has pointed out on our behalf, the proposer Susana Lepi Šimenko and, on behalf of the Group of Members, colleague Jelka Godec, is also subjectively responsible. Also subjectively responsible. I suggest, Mr President, that you warn your colleague Möderndorfer that this is not the interpretation of Marijan Pojbič, it is not the interpretation, I don't know, of Eve Irgle or any of the co-signers of our interpellation, but of the Minister. All that bile you pointed at us, pour it on your secretary. She is responsible for the work of the director and for everything that has happened to be incorrect in this process. By the way, I think that one of the inspections issued a decision without getting to know the actual situation at the site, but just out of the papers, she issued an opinion. Something similar has happened to the Ombudsman. However, decisions of the courts are coming. Yesterday, I believe that the Supreme Court decision, which has established all the infringements referred to in the proceedings, is in appeal. Today, another court’s decision was reached to allow old parents to communicate with their children. Respected, if there is no empathy for those who decide on human rights, children, then this is resolved by the courts. Unfortunately, bureaucrats at the Ministry, who are represented or covered by the Minister, do not have a simple feeling. They prevent old parents from having contact with their grandchildren and Mr. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u121	Mr Jože Tanko, I didn't understand if I should tell Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I didn't understand. I would like to ask for a procedural proposal. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The President-in-Office of the meeting may be in charge of reaching out to the debate of the Member in the event of indecent, unfair and non-individual treatment of the item on the agenda. Mr. Möderndorfer didn't say anything about interpolation. Nothing. He was talking about the interpellations. The content of the interpolation is indicated in the document submitted and is prepared with all the standards applicable to the National Assembly, otherwise the President of the National Assembly would reject our request for interpolation, which is clearly clear because he is responsible. And I would suggest, Mr President, that you alert Mr Möderndorfer or refer to your member of the parliamentary group, who, by the way, is the President of the National Assembly, that he has acted improperly in his work. We have acted properly, and the President of the National Assembly has acted improperly after what Mr Möderndorfer has said. When we proposed twice the discharge of the President of the National Assembly for the sake of incorrect work, he voted against it. So I would only warn you that if you are conducting a meeting, you should keep it in accordance with the rules and agenda. The escapades of this diversion that are happening, simply cut. The subject is clear, it's spelled interpolation, and it also writes for what. And the theme of the agenda is the reasons behind this interpretation. However, the judgments of the courts are coming, and none of the judgments that have come, whether it be the Supreme Court or the Supreme Court, speak in favour of the decision of the Minister and her services. Not one. Not one so far. I suggest that you also direct the debate to this part of the debaters, such as Mr Möderndorfer, who is a very thin nerve, and obviously more than I, who bears this last name, draw attention to the decent conduct and debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Jože Tanko. We have nine more debaters. So far, we've done relatively well. But in this style, I hope we will continue. I give the word as a replica to Mr. Joseph Horvath. Here you are, Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I worked in the office and listened to a discussion by respected colleague Jani Möderndorfer, who said, among other things, "the home of the elderly there in Lendava". Somewhere in Lendava. I believe this is not the concept of ruling this coalition, it's just a better concept. He forgot that he had been in power in this country since the flower week of April 8, 1990. He forgot about the 82nd Article of the Constitution. My colleague Jani is also a member of the Lendovčany family. And he forgot. Somewhere in Lendava – it is 200 light-years from the heart, from Ljubljana. And he told me, and I realized that I was discussing the rule of marriage. Of course, I criticized the Minister and praised Minister Koprivnik, who did everything and the Minister did too little. Yes, who should I criticise next time – the Minister of Environment and Space, the Minister of Defence, when we are talking about the rule of marriage? And, dear colleague Jani, you may despise me, you may insult me, but you will not be Prekmurje, but you will not be Prekmurci, because this is a lie. And as long as I'm here, I'll always replicate to you when you're so vehemently explaining that you're Aunt Wikipedia or Uncle Google. Well, you didn't. You're just one little Uncle Jani, because small people are the ones who hit and then run away. Straight for Mr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u125	There's no replica to the replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u126	Please warn a fellow Member who is discussing that if he is already replicating, he must listen to what I have said. I'm saying it has nothing to do with the interpretation. That's all. This has nothing to do with the Lendawians, not you, not anyone. That's what I'd ask if you could warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. The following is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Sašo Tabaković, and Mr Jože Tanko. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Chairman. Allow me to borrow, Minister, your opening remarks. Here I stand, standing before you, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, standing before you, ministerial assembly, and standing before citizens and citizens. And I clearly and unequivocally say, Minister, you must leave because you are responsible for the politicization of the professional institution, which is as a result, and today we are talking about this, and this is the worst, which has led to human rights violations, the Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and legislation. If it's not a big enough reason for someone to leave the ministerial chair, then I really don't know what it is. I'll take my turn. Appointment of the Director of the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec. Minister, Mr Jurij Šumečnik, I think you know him not only because he ran this centre for social work, but because he was your political companion or another. The Lord was appointed, despite the fact that many pointed out that he was not suitable, he was not appropriate, and you intervened by delaying procedures. So he was able to complete, in the meantime, those things that were necessary for him to be named at all. Of course you could have done that. Why? Who was the president of the world then? Mr. Boris Balant. I'm sure you know him well too. The one who is not, let me say that she works within the Ministry of Defence with her colleague Katičeva. And what followed all of this? Anti-constitutional action, violation of human rights. Now some people here today are pretending that this is completely irrelevant. It's very important. And the fact is that we also have a decision by the Administrative Court, which clearly stated where the infringements are. If it weren't for that, I don't know why your supporter gave up. There are only two options: whether he is responsible or thus helped you to maintain yourself. I'm not going to discuss other areas today, but I'm talking about it. And the consequences, you know, are not that simple. In the final phase, you were talking earlier about how some of us can discuss "this is about children" for the individual children who will know this forever. Yes, Minister, but they'll know because you've decided exclusively politically and not professionally. Politically, we can say. The fact is, that's not how you do things. And it is a fact that, with this, we show that some other procedures in such procedures may still be questionable. And let's ask ourselves what's really going on in our country. This case came the day because a civil initiative was organised. I've heard about some yogurt revolution before. If it's a real initiative, then there's no yogurt revolution. But if it's an initiative when it doesn't suit you, it's a yogurt revolution. But they were neighbors. Those who knew this environment. You think it's just like collecting 3,000 signatures in a few hours if you really didn't know? Let's stop, come on! Let us trust our fellow citizens and fellow citizens and slightly less those institutions that protect each other. And in that case, that's exactly what the Inspectorate took. He wasn't interested in the opinion of his parents, he was only interested in what they wrote down somewhere. And that's objective and professional work. I won't be long anymore, but we're talking a lot about who has the rights and what's best for the child. The Honourable Secretary is at one of the second debates where you have taken a lot of time and energy for this, and I am surprised to hear today, even by the coalition, how many problems there are in the ministry and the problems. But you have fought for a certain law over all the good taste. Let me remind you of the following words: adoptions and attitudes toward old parents. Things happen when a child loses a living parent. In this case, it is always the first step to look at the person to whom the child is most attached. And this is the case of old parents or aunts and uncles or some close individuals who know their family or environment well and who have become accustomed and attached to it. In this case, the child is entrusted with their care. And, Madam Secretary, you concluded with the following words: "In the case of a tragic case," I really don't know what could be more tragic here, except that anything could happen to these children, "so I for my children, and probably a lot of us don't want them to lose their memory of me as a mother, but I want them to keep the most possible, the greatest care possible for them, these are the old parents." And you were right. But you don't work like that. And the fact is, the rights of old parents have been violated. And the fact is, there are so many mistakes in this process solely because of politics. And you're still saying we're not competent to talk about this today. How we are! Dear Minister, you run a department that is so sensitive – morals, ethics, if the constitution and conventions mean nothing to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u129	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor, followed by mag. Alenka Bratušek, for her Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues, colleagues! Today we have heard a lot about inefficient institutions such as social work centres, the inefficient Ministry of Labour and, consequently, the poor social policy that this government is leading. I would now like to begin by pointing out, in response to these observations, that the Ministry has, in proportion to other resources, a large percentage of the financial resources from the common treasury, since, in view of the fact that there is already a single amount for social transfers to individuals and households, i.e. individuals, citizens and citizens, their families in the 2016 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government or the State is making a billion 220 million euros, which is even 40 million euros more than in 2015. The largest proportion of these expenditure is allocated to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, a billion 100 million and 90% respectively. What is important about this data is that, in the structure of these funds or transfers, it is the largest share of family benefits, the parental compensation for transfers to ensure social security, transfers to the unemployed, scholarships and the like. Which, of course, means that the Government devotes as much as 13% of the total state budget to the implementation of the social policy work. I am talking only about 13% of the state budget, which is intended exclusively for social transfers, citizens, citizens and their families. So this information seems to me to have to be taken into account when we ask ourselves how socially sensitive the Government is in general and how not. Of course, this does not mean that there is no need for some changes within the legislation or that we should not ask ourselves first what other areas that we can even regulate, perhaps beyond the logic of thinking about financing. The Minister's interpretation is based on the case of the Korean boys who upset the media, the public at all. As a result of this case, I have used the institution of the question of the Member State and have put to the Minister a question on this subject, which concerns two young children directly. It is, as has already been said, a very sensitive subject. In this way, I have tried to draw attention to the systemic regulation of legislation, which I think has been overrun long ago, in general in understanding the concept of progressive family policy. Of course, in the answer why, because the Family Code in 2012 fell at the referendum. If the Family Code did not fall at the referendum then, it is likely that there would not be a case of Korean boys today. But we do know what kind of political power went to great lengths to bring down the referendum. When the proposer says that the Family Code was being prepared during the time of the government of Janez Janša, from 2004 to 2008, this is not really true. If we look at history, the Family Code has been in preparation since 1999, that is, at the time of the government of Janez Drnovska. I am talking about the solutions envisaged by the 2011 Code, which is the establishment of family courts, which would clearly delimit jurisdiction in the case of child abduction and thus reorganise social work centres. More. Dr. Sturm, as justice minister at the time of the government of Janez Janš, objected to such a solution. Now, given that children are a constitutionally protected category, we probably all agree with that, and that we need to take care of their welfare, the Institute of Family Courts would certainly respond to the doubts that are actually raised at the time of today's interpretation. This would not result in a generalised and generalised view of the entire social profession, but in particular in such cases it would not be possible to dissipate certain areas for various political manifestations and different partisan interests, which is bad for both the policy and the public. Since this issue of family courts does not only concern the Ministry of Labour, I have also asked the Minister of Justice the same question. In fact, a very satisfying answer was received. There is an interest both at the Ministry of Labour and at the Ministry of Justice that the establishment of family courts actually takes place, that the ministries on this issue are already almost resorientated, harmonised, how to provide financial resources, how to provide training, education of judges, what would be the role of social work centres, which would probably take on the role of the consultative body after the new regime and would be systematically regulated by the amendment of the Law on Justice and Unjust Procedure. In this way, the actual handling of these cases could be carried out effectively, quickly and in particular by ensuring equal treatment for all. As long as we look at the family code, which is in public debate by the end of July, solutions are envisaged for this distinction between social work centres and courts. In general, according to the rules of the judicial procedure, where paternity and motherhood should be identified or challenged, disputes concerning the protection, upbringing and survival of minors have been decided. Under the rules of the unfair procedure, the court would decide whether to withdraw and restore parental rights or to extend and terminate parental rights, which means that the court would be competent to decide on the provisional orders for the removal of children, and would be competent for measures of a more permanent nature, such as the restriction of parental care. It would be appropriate to place a child in foster care, to appoint a foster father. It would also be appropriate for adoption procedures, where a solution is envisaged that old parents can adopt a grandson if he no longer has a living parent. If I go back to today's case of interpolation, I would like to emphasise when we're talking about something that we don't know anything and so on. The Ombudsman, in her position sent to the National Assembly on 12 April, at the initiative of the President of the Commission for the petitions of Ms Eva Irgl, wrote that the children had been placed in the foster family on the basis of the consent of the living parent, who, despite a serious crime, had not been deprived of the parental right. This is very important because he was not legally convicted of this act at the time, and for the legal interests of grandparents or close relatives of children in legal proceedings, they do not actually have the opportunity to exercise their interests in the current legal system, as the aged parents probably would. So I'm essentially wondering why, in the current legislation that we already have, grandmas and grandparents and close relatives in legal proceedings do not have the opportunity to exercise their interests regarding parental rights. This is of interest to me because we have not received an answer to this question today. The question was also not really raised, but it is very important to understand the whole picture of the problem. However, I wonder whether this hole still exists solely because legislation would forget these people, which I personally strongly doubt, or simply because there are some likely psycho, sociological, professional reasons that are somehow involved in a wider consensus of understanding of society or how we live. This seems a very important question to me and I think it is very important today to get an answer to this question. The family code, as currently addressed in the public debate, I think it refers to progressive family policy and that the Government is aware of the responsibilities of all citizens, not just children. And especially to children. This is also evidenced by the fact that the Council of Europe announced November 18 as the European Day for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse in the Family and the broader initiative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, Slovenia proposed this day with a view to raising public awareness of sexual abuse, that in 2015 we also started special training of professional colleagues on the treatment of cases of child sexual abuse, because preventive activities were always insufficient on this issue and that the Ministry sent a new Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence to the public on 1 February. When we talk about sensitivity to children as regards the government and the departmental ministry, then we can certainly talk about awareness and responsibility about the importance of protecting children's rights and benefits. After all, the government is also demonstrating this through its normative work plan. But it's true that sometimes I want this one to be a lot more up-to-date. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you, too. We have four other panellists registered. The next one's the secretary. I'm sorry. The next one is mag. Alenka Bratusek. We have four more debaters and then we move on. The motioner has the floor. Here you go, Susanna Beautiful Šimenka, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you, President, for your word. Nevertheless, it seems to me that we are going a little over the entire interpretation, procedures and irregularities that are being readjusted by ministers. We were often told that we were going with some kind of piranha move or something. Look, we've learned the story from the media, just like all of you other Members. The first public appearance was on the side of the Minister of Labour. This was on 6 April 2016. She then held a press conference where she explained, together with the Director of Social Inspection, the results of this extraordinary surveillance, which she had ordered. And it explained that there was no irregularity. The first media phenomenon related to this case was on the side of the Minister. It is right to stress that there would be no misunderstanding. At that time, the minister stood by the position of social inspection. She agreed to these results. From this we conclude that she advocated this, politically in fact, she was in favour of these decisions. Why? She wrote herself, and in her explanation of the interpretation here today, she said that she had been informed of the procedures before by an old mother. She just asked the center a little bit about what was going on. But she believed blindly in the results of the inspection. Anyway, I think we should go over the whole story a little bit. After a tragic accident, the children were three months after their parents. In the meantime, Grandma made a request or request, an application for foster care at the competent social work centre in Slovenj Gradc. This centre should waive this role in the decision-making of the Ministry. The decision-making period is two months. The role was perfect 27. January. So the deadline was March 27th. But the Ministry didn't decide that. Decision 11. April – after the legal deadline. As the minister says, she obviously didn't get the role before. But it was communicating with the center. I believe the minister knew that the application for foster care had been made, not least that she was probably warned by the grandmother who wrote to you on March 25th. If we look at it, we have Velenje's Social Work Center on the other hand. As early as March 1st, the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, when the marriage deadline was not even due to decide on the nursing of an old mother, decided already that the team of experts decided to take the children into foster care. They did not wait for the procedures to be concluded, for the Ministry to have the option or to decide, but this expert team has already decided that the children are going into foster care. That's what happened at the end of the month. It's an inappropriate way. Kidnapping took place by bringing the child into kindergarten and taking them to unknown foster parents. Many experts have pointed out that this was not the case. She warned the nanny. As far as custody is concerned. According to the Marriage and Family Relations Act, Article 182, one of the relatives shall normally be assigned as guardian. Exceptionally, only when this is not in the child's best interests, another person shall be appointed to do so. And in this case, the Centre for Social Work of Velenje has appointed another person. He evidently felt that this would be contrary to the child’s interests if the child were with the parents. But no matter what, the kids were in their parents for three months. So it wasn't against the benefit of the child. So why did he give another guardian? Where are the reasons for this? That's what they decided. But it's strange, it's really strange, because the law is perfectly clear on this. It's only possible when it's not for the child's benefit. But since they were left behind by their parents, this was not contrary to the child’s benefit. As far as the application for foster care is concerned, I have already re-emphasized the dates. These are facts. These are arguments. We can't argue with that. We know the laws, and we know the facts of what was done. And this was also found by the Administrative Court in the first instance. There is probably no need for the executive branch to wait, in any case, for what the court will then say. Because then I don't know why the execution branch of power we even have or already confirms that it doesn't matter because it's still a judicial branch. It's only right that we have a second, third option, but not just in cases like this. And it would not have happened if the procedures had to go as they should. How could you accept the opinion of the Centre for Social Work or Social Inspections, which has only taken control of the reports of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje? You were aware of the facts of this surveillance. You knew he didn't ask the other side. In this case, the old parents. You probably also knew the latest opinion of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, which did not state the reasons why an old parent would not be a suitable foster parent. He even wrote about good relations, about positive things. And it wasn't at all that it was decided that the parenting of the old parents would have been decided first, and then it would have been decided on the foster care, I don't know, into another family if it was rejected. Here are the procedures that are clear, and these are the irregularities that we are alerting us to. Minister, you have a social inspection. It's your organ in the system that controls the work of social work centres. You did the right thing by demanding immediate emergency surveillance. But it was more than obvious that things were not done as they should have been. Have you ever asked, asked for further explanation, why the social inspectorate, yours, actually did what she did? Have you, at least now that the Governing Court's decision has come, questioned their credibility and acted appropriately? You're waiting for jurisdiction because you said you'd act when the verdicts are valid. The Administrative Court held that the withdrawal of the Korean boys was contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and was also contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It was decided that the relationship between an old parent and a grandchild was protected as a family life. And that's important, because you didn't admit it more than you obviously did. The old parents weren't in the process. On the other hand, the party was their father, the father who murdered their mother, and the same Velenje Social Work Center did not deprive him of his parental rights or begin the procedure for removal. Yes, how is that possible, Madam Secretary-General? Why didn't they do it? It's about procedures, about ways, about the legality of the functioning of the organs that belong to your ministry. And that's what we're reading in our interpretation. The guardian also made her own control, and she made the same mistake to rely solely on the reports of the Velenje Centre for Social Work. However, she did point out some important things. That it has not yet been legally decided on the issue of fostering that it has to be decided by a decision, which obviously has not been made, which was the opposite of the constant practice of the centres. And that the father should take the parental right or at least start the procedure. She also agreed that the very way in which the child was taken was wrong. As far as the Administrative Court is concerned. In the Administrative Court, what I have already stated was related to the resignation of my grandmother's role in foster care in the resolution of the Ministry. That it was not decided in due time. And yet another anomaly that you didn't at the time of the application was that there was no press on the document where the date would have been that there was actually an application and some evidence of when the application was submitted. And this mistake has happened miraculously twice. Coincidentally, probably. However, the Administrative Court also found that this was a violation of human rights. An intervention has taken place in the family community of old parents and grandchildren, as recognised by Article 53 of the Constitution and the European Court of Human Rights. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights is clear that this is an intervention in the community of life and that a decision should also be issued to old parents. They also admitted that the elderly parents should be a party to the procedure. Which, of course, you didn't admit to them before, unlike their father, the killer of their mother. According to the findings of the administrative inspection, the Director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, resigned. Dear Minister, you should leave this town early. No later than when you found out about these irregularities. When you asked him to give you a role so you could make the right decision on the Ministry's side. At least then. But he did it after the ruling of the Administrative Court. As far as the Supreme Court is concerned, as already mentioned. Yes, it was said only about the provisional order for the child to be given to the parents immediately, and this was rejected by the Supreme Court. As regards the finding of human rights violations, however, it remains the same as at the first stage. Today, this has already been mentioned, the Celje court said that the elderly parents must get in touch with the boy as soon as possible. Right, but it would be best if we didn't make contact at all. As far as Gabi Chachinovich Vogrinčich is concerned. I did not mention her opinion today, but I mentioned her only because she was at the press conference at the time. She said that she had more than obvious personal data on the case, but there was no legal basis in the background that she was entitled to it. The so-called tripartite contract was concluded with her on 11 April, which means 5 days after the press conference. In this context, I mentioned it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you. Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Let me repeat several times today that the social work centres in this country are public institutions, they are independent institutions that conduct their procedures in accordance with the law. More. Professionals are independent in management in accordance with the Social Protection Act. The Law on the General Administrative Procedure clearly states that all these procedures must be conducted independently. So everything you are saying today is about the conduct of the Centre for Social Work Velenje or the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. All the time on purpose or knowingly you're replacing the notion that these are my jobs, that I have to influence why I didn't take away parental rights, why I didn't intervene, triggered this. This has been mentioned several times in this Chamber, and it is indeed right to repeat once again that the centres for social work are independent institutions. And all you're saying today is that I shouldn't, and I didn't even know it, and even less should interfere with the decisions of the Centre for Social Work and dare to have the authority to decide what is in the child's best interests. If citizens and citizens, mothers, fathers, old parents, parents are watching all of this, I hope you do not have the impression that you would like to have such a system, where the minister, either me or anyone else, based on phone calls or perhaps also the records of a lawyer who, so in our system, and it is right that each side of his lawyer has, then defends and exposes what is in the interest of one side. I'm glad we have a system in the country that protects the benefit of children. All supervisory institutions so far competent in the country to be able to assess this have said that the child’s benefit has not been violated. The Centre for Social Work is therefore independent. My supervisory role as secretary is to verify the social inspection. And she did. In what part, in your opinion, should the Minister tell the social inspectors who, under the Law on Inspection in our legislation, are again independent, are in charge of the procedure and are responsible for the conduct of the procedure, I would arbitrarily, because at a given time I do not think, and there rightly or unjustifiably, people may request a different judgment, said, "No, but today because the lawyer has informed me otherwise, I think that everything was wrong, even the social inspection will be replaced because everyone is violating it. Because obviously people don't agree with this decision, I switch social inspections, I replace all social inspectors, and I say I'll make a different decision. That's exactly what you're asking me to do. I believe in the institutions of the rule of law, I believe in professional work until I have no reason to doubt it. Supervisory institutions in this case shall demonstrate how they operate. More. You don't know, and it's just that you don't know what's going on in the administrative process at the second level. You're talking about how old parents aren't a party to the procedure, and you should be. And you certainly know they didn't. Do you know how the Ministry decided on stage two? You don't know. And I am not obliged to talk about this here because the proceedings are open and are pending before the administrative courts and also at the second stage the Ministry decides on this. But because of all the polymigrating, I got out of it, so that other Ministry officials run the procedure independently of all of this. And that's right. If I were to talk about all this today, you would then question the legality and regularity of the proceedings through a lawyer, because in your interpretation you state what the lawyer writes to the courts. So supervisory institutions have certain powers in this country. And so are the ministers. Your opinion, when you've been saying since the morning that I should react to it, take it out on a supervisory role, undo everything, all decisions and arbitral based on the fact that I don't have enough morals, ethics, your colleague told me to make a different decision. Because that's what you think, because so do the signatories of the petition initiative. But let's ask ourselves, are these people called to judge, do we have institutions for this in our country? I really can't imagine leading such a very difficult department, then doubting all the professional decisions, doubting the centres for social work, everything. It's chaos. If we did that, I really don't see my role in being a minister. And today I repeat again and again: I have acted in accordance with my responsibilities. Because we talk so much about the judgments themselves in the Administrative Court, and you quote it many times. Yesterday, the Supreme Court made it very clear in its explanation, including that the judgement of the Administrative Court, which found an intervention in the human rights of the grandmother, is not yet legally binding and cannot be invoked. But this isn't, you'll say, just the part of the judgment you want to read and expose. But that's how it is, thank God, the courts are independent, they're going to conduct their procedures the way they do. And I believe in this state of law. The second thing you might have to say is that it won't hang in the air about contacts. Contact is one of the fundamental rights of children. Under the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, this right is clearly recorded. And also in the judgments of the European Court of Justice. In the case of Italy, the European Court of Justice has unequivocally stated in this respect that old parents have the right of contact because this is linked to their right to family life. But you will not find anywhere in any judgment unless, please, show me where it is written that old parents are the same as parents in relation to children. If you show it to me then. And rest my case. But now you're deceiving again. The fact is that the Centre for Social Work offered contacts that had been agreed upon, and old parents refused to contact. An old parent's lawyer sent an application to the Ministry requiring a transfer of local authority to determine contacts. The Ministry is, I think, 6. 5. This decision was decided by a positive and transferable authority in this respect against the will of the Velenje Centre for Social Work to Šentjur. And they organized it immediately, and it was not possible to make contact again. Therefore, in accordance with our legislation, this is now up to the court to decide. Today it is in secret because the family situation is decided in secret by the Law of Justice and I hope that we will not read what has happened and what has not happened, despite the fact that the old parents have eased the silence of the lawyer, at least I hope that someone will take care of the minors and their privacy in all this trouble. And they agreed that these contacts would be made immediately. I'm glad you do, but that's all that's in line with the law, with the procedures in this country. And finally, you know, when adults in a number of court cases fight for the greatest benefit of children, they usually say that only she is right and then the court will judge. And neither side is usually the most satisfied. But in the end, the decision has to be respected. Regrettably, though, in life, when adults fight for the benefit of children, children, in the end, because adults are unable to agree, draw this short in all of this. And also, unfortunately, in this case, that's exactly what's going to happen. I am truly sorry that in such a painful case as this, these two children have lost their mother, that their father is in prison, we are talking today, and that we are creating children who will somehow be forever marked by this. Remember the Coroque girl, what were the differences between each and the other. I remember Mr Muntz who defended it, but in the end all those who had very much to say publicly are condemned. But unfortunately, after all these proceedings, no one cares about this little girl anymore. And that's the saddest of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The text shall be delivered by the proposer, Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I'll be very short. Minister, when you spoke about the transfer of the right of contact with regard to this local competence to the Centre for Social Work of Šentjur, you said, inter alia, that this was done by the Ministry outside the Centre for Social Work of Velenje or despite their opposition. More than likely, the ministry has a role to play. I agree. Social work centers aren't your jobs. I never said that. But I said they belong under the Ministry you represent. They are independent institutions, I completely agree with that. But anyway, Minister, you're the one who's responsible, you're responsible, you have to exercise control over the authorities that are in the Ministry. In the case of your ministry, this is the Labour Inspectorate. And let me read again this opinion, which I have read several times today. The Minister must have access to all relevant information relating to the work of the body in the composition, otherwise he cannot perform this function by law. No information in the body may be so confidential that the Minister could not have access to it. I don't know, fourth time, I read it five times today and said it again. Maybe that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u137	The Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you. I'll be brief, too. Look, Ms. Proposer, once again, not knowing the law, the legal matter and the jurisdiction. Yes, when it comes to complaints about decisions made by social work centres in accordance with the law, the competent ministry – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities – decides. And I want to explain to you all the time that you are saying something that you had written down two months ago that is not up to date in relation to existing procedures, and that the Ministry in the complaint to the decisions of the Centre for Social Work decides. And one such last case, it's happened before, I said there are four open cases, there's also jurisdiction over local jurisdiction, who decides contacts. And on the basis of a request from a lawyer who disagreed and wanted local authority, the social work centre first decides. Where she's not, then there's a decision at the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Labour, those responsible, has decided to comply with the lawyer's request. These are procedures. This, ma'am, I want to tell you all the time that this particular case is still ongoing, such administrative procedures, which is the first step of the decision of the centres for social work, then the complaint is decided by the Ministry of Labour. Then there may be an administrative dispute. And that's what's going on. But you don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u139	The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, followed by Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you so much and a good evening to all! Anja Kopač Mrak is a minister who knows her portfolio better than a longtime employee of the same ministry, not to say, unlike most other ministers in the Cerara government. A minister who comes to a professional conversation without a handful of officials whispering to her what she needs to say. And a minister who is always willing to listen to arguments and her opinions, of course on the basis of arguments, if they convince her, to change. In short, a minister who knows what he's doing. And it is the work of Anja Kopač Dark that we are discussing all day on the proposal of SDS. In my opinion, it is entirely inappropriate for two small children, two small boys, to be used for political purposes. And that's what's happening today, unfortunately. I am appalled that in this particular case, so much is written and spoken in public, we are not far from going to see in the media, in the newspapers, even the photographs of these two little unfavourable boys. It is irresponsible for politicians to use this for political purposes. The lawyer of old parents even allows himself to make public the judgment of the court with the identity of the children: name, surname, birth details, everything. I hope, in the absence of anyone else, that the Bar on this case will respond specifically to the lawyer. The client should be protected by the lawyer, but if it comes to underage children, everyone should respect that. And once again, I hope that in this particular case, the Bar would react. I've been following the whole event with great sadness. The great tragedy that accompanied this family, apparently for a long time, ended in murder. My father killed the mother of his children. And when that happened, in this National Assembly, I did not see any great controversy and great disdain as to how this could even happen in our country and why the institutions did not react earlier. No! No! You didn't say anything about it, you didn't call board meetings, you didn't call meetings of the National Assembly. It just went through. Did we ask ourselves if the police reacted if they knew? I don't think there's a murder going on in the family from today to tomorrow. And this suggests that in this family, unfortunately, a lot of things have been wrong for some time now. And you, your respectable colleagues, convince us that Grandma and Grandpa are part of this family, part of the family in which the father kills the mother of his children. This is what we are selling all day today, about events that happened far after, but we are not dealing with what politicians should absolutely be dealing with. In the last period, almost a month has passed when citizens through the media are not aware of the tragic incidents related to family violence and even of the murders or attempted murders of women committed by their former or current partners. The last such resounding event in Celje, when a man before the eyes of a common juvenile child with a knife attacked his previous partner and injured her so badly that she died at the scene. In every such act, both the media and many of us wonder whether such a tragic event could be prevented. And that, dear colleagues, would be our task. That would be our task, not to get involved in the work of professional services all day long — did they do the right thing, did they do the wrong thing? If they did not do so, those responsible would say so. I do not believe that you know the situation in this family to the extent that you hope to say what would be best for these two little boys. Strengthen our awareness that before it is too late, we need to review the legislation and find out what changes are needed to ensure timely action — if we did this, today’s meeting would probably not be necessary, since the mother of these two boys would probably still be alive. And this is a topic that politicians should discuss, find solutions and also find answers to numerous questions. And what will the interpolation against the minister in this area change? Nothing. But absolutely nothing. If I can somehow understand the opposition SDS that it has prepared materials and wants to replace the government, the government coalition, and the Desus and the Prime Minister of the Government, together with the SMC, I do not understand at all. You agreed together and signed what you will do in the field of social policy in the coalition contract. President Cerar comes to the National Assembly and praises the Minister's work, not a year ago, but two days ago. The same afternoon, he thinks about it, and he doesn't know very well if he has his support. Desus says he wants the pension coordination, and the minister won't give it to him. You probably know where the pension money is. This isn't even from Anya Kopač Dark, but we should knock on Minister Marble's door. There's a pile where he writes pensions. And there's something else I don't understand. Desus has been in every government since 2000, says 16 years. Left and right. There's no problem for Desus here. And given the situation of the pensioners today, we listen to how many of them live on the edge. And it's true. How many of them live hard. And it's true. Pensions, we all agree to be higher, but, dear colleagues, not in 16 years that we could, but we should ensure that. Under the slogan of "working for the pensioners" they take care of their president, while the pensioners end up with two euros of additional pensions. Only once in the history of this young country have pensions been nominally reduced, only once, for more than 25 thousand pensioners. In 2012, with Desus' voice, with Desus' support. Once again, it appears that under the slogan "working for the pensioners" you only care about yourself. If you really cared about the pensioners and actually cared for the pensioners, at least from 2004 onwards, you would be sitting in the hot chair of Minister Anja Kopač Dark or perhaps at least in the hot chair of the Minister of Finance. There's scissors and a canvas for it. We could really show you how much you care about pensioners. I would like to see Minister Erjavac in the finance minister's chair, where he will provide the money and raise the pensions of thousands of euros to all pensioners. Let him do what he promised. You can't stop, not just in this government, but constantly criticize those who try, work, and you just come by and say "ups, if it doesn't, and Desus won't be in the government anymore." Sit on these two hottest chairs, you have three ministers, don't deal with foreign policy, foreign policy, foreign people around the world and the environment, but take these two sources, and then we'll see what the real effect will be. But let's not forget, you've had scissors and linen in your hands since 2000. Showing muscles like this with words is something, it's smart to use them, but of course it's something else. One more time. Desus has created Slovenian politics and Slovenian destiny since 2000. You were there when the bank hole started. Did you take action when this happened? You know what $5 billion is? This is more than a lady in one year for all pensions, it is said that they could be at least one year twice higher if the banking system did not have to be repaired. You were there when, for the first time in the history of the country, pensions fell. Without Desus's voice, it wouldn't be. Long-term care. I don't know what 16 years Desus in the government is doing, that the solution isn't on the table. 16 years. This isn't from today to tomorrow. Karl Erjavec is a 12-year-old minister and he has not been a Minister of Labour or Minister of Finance for half a year. This would be a coup d'état for pensioners to have your president sit on the job chair and show how to secure a thousand euro a month's pension. I believe you will receive the support of a large, large majority, if not unanimously in this National Assembly. And one more thing. Conditioning support to a minister with a single directorship, I wonder or hope that Mr Štefanec, KPK, may also be listening to this debate – if it is not corruption, then I really do not know what corruption is. They are engaged in one political appointment to a political function, the directoral function is far from political, conditions must be met. If they're holding rumors, the person you're forcing into this place doesn't even meet the legal requirements. I mean, if this isn't corruption, then I really don't know what corruption is. I think that the blackmail of Desus must end somewhere, and I absolutely agree with the Social Democrats that cows are not to be traded. Dear Minister, congratulations on all the efforts you make in your work. I'm absolutely not going to support this interpolation, which I've already said at the time of her submission, that no one is going to speculate on how and what. Maybe or maybe even the elections wouldn't be bad, but let them bring another head to the table and I'll be happy to vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u141	It's a replica. Here you are, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Bratušek, we talked about domestic violence in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I have put a question to the Parliament in this National Assembly and requested a public debate on this. I don't know how you voted at the time. I don't know, but it wasn't accepted. But you could suggest concrete solutions. And what you're saying is violence in the family and why it's so long to wait, who's responsible, that's what we're talking about today. And if we're even talking about what you kind of question whether the old parents are right or wrong, I'm not going to let that happen. But the information is very important. Those kids were there for three months. I guess it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u143	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Get ready for him, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Thank God, we're heading towards the end of the debate, in a kind of agonizing way, sometimes even real debates, but sometimes confused or for my notions of a debate that this National Assembly would not deserve. But it's all our fault. Now, ladies and gentlemen, they may say I'm a little crazy, but if I understand anyone, I understand the SDS in this story. He filed the interpretation, the best themes, I must say, you didn't choose, that's probably a lot to choose. I must say that the Minister was right in this debate and also the Minister was very good in her answers. And these are some levels of debate that I think are part of this National Assembly. Some debates could also be forgotten. Now, don't mind me, I've been in this policy for ten years to explain to you what interpellation is made by the opposition. Interpellation means my dear coalition partners how solid a coalition is. It has nothing to do with content. There they play, interpeel, and then see whether the coalition is solid or whether things still need to be a little bumpy here, that the government falls or does not fall. Yes, content is of course important, but the way, thinking and what is interpolation is also to see whether or not they are strong in the coalition. And what did we prove? Let's be real, let's get in the ashes, this coalition doesn't work. It's not working. This coalition does not work because one coalition partner has decided to support the Minister, despite the fact that we have a clause in the coalition contract, it is written that we do not destroy others. Yeah, if we made some serious mistakes, etc. We've already had cases in this National Assembly. You don't need to have an interpretation, the Prime Minister calls and the Prime Minister comes from the government. He's done it twice. If our minister had worked very badly, the president of the government could have called and kicked her out of the government. That's it. So much for politics, hygiene and interpretation. What Alenka said, she told a lot of truths. And secondly, there are no colleagues on the far left, but in life, you know, when you want to take a train, you have to buy a ticket. It's crucial that the conductor doesn't throw you down. They sit on the interpolation that goes against, I'll say, the content should not be this interpolation, but they sit on the train and drive without a ticket. So much for political hygiene. But I understand, they've been here for two years, they've come off the street, they haven't learned how the system works yet. Under interpolation, if you're Jack, you go with the opposition, you write the content, you sign and you defend. No, no, no. The content of the interpolation is not good, but the minister works poorly in all other areas. Not to the government. But don't go to the government. Not to go to this department of the Ministry of Labour, Finance or the Ministry of Home Affairs is not good now because they are refugees. No, no, no. He's yelling outside. Not at all, not at all. Not at all. That's the kind of policy I'm going to throw up in here. Either you have something between your legs or you don't have anything between your legs. I'm sorry. And this is where we fell. Look, this is where we fell. But the Social Democrats didn't, the minister had answers for everything today. Except for what he can't say. If not, our parliamentary group, and our ministers, who are doing well in this government, who are professional, and also Members, who have a tradition, are a little more of us once, and we are a little less, we will leave this national assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. Mrs. Jelka Godec, your word. I want Dr. Mitja Horvat ready for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Han, there's nothing to apologize for being very well said. So you apologized twice, but there's nothing to apologize for. [[advertising from the hall]] Ah, ha, people. Okay. As far as interpolation or what we have heard today is concerned, I agree that one debate was very confusing, and one answer is incorrect. On the part of the Minister, we are not, but today, of course, from her, from other ministers, we hear, "we are not responsible for anything, we have no responsibility, no authority, the services are independent, they work alone." Then we don't need ministers. We have jobs that are independent, directors are autonomous. So then we will no longer need that work there, because no one in this love of Slovenia wants to take responsibility. If I remind you of Monday's response to Dr Cerar, President of the Government, who said, "I find the Minister objectively responsible." The President of the Government said that the Minister was objectively responsible in this case. And today, the Minister has not told us how many times, but of course all those who support her that the Minister is not responsible – not subjectively, not objectively. I must agree here with my colleague Han, the coalition has fallen, and let you decide what is your responsibility at all. Nobody in this government takes responsibility. No one's responsible for anything, so things go where they go. And today, what we have also heard from Members, we are not here to decide. We can't decide these things, we can't solve them, and we won't solve them. I don't. Has Susanna's proposer even talked about how things should be resolved today? She didn't even talk about it. But you put that in our mouths if you want us to save something. No, we've been interpolating all day and all you hear from us is that there's been an irregularity. And look, 6. 4. was a press conference where this inspection was presented. At that time, it was said that inspection showed that the decision of social work centres was professional and legal and for the greatest benefit of both children. Nor has the Ombudsman found a violation of children's rights. This was said at the time, the minister was sitting there with the director of the Centre for Social Work Velenje, the inspector and so on. They pushed it all together, and they kept repeating it. Then the Administrative Court finds that the kidnapping of the boys was contrary to the right of the grandmother to family and private life and in contravention of the Constitution. The administrative inspection also found illegality in the proceedings at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which led to the resignation of the director of this Centre for Social Work. And today, many times, what was said at that press conference was said. The magnetogram states what Peter Stefanovski, director of social inspection said: "At some point when old parents were no longer able for such or other reasons, they were no longer prepared, they were simply not prepared to think together with the centre about what was in the long-term benefit of children, CSD intervened for some authority it had under law and decided as it had decided. He was an expert, he acted legally." That was pronounced 6. 4. The administrative court and the administrative inspection will then find irregularities. It goes on to say, "The CSD had to make a decision. In social protection, there is no right decision, there is legal one and there is no right one. There are decisions allowing for further cooperation and decisions to overturn such cooperation. Such a decision was aimed at continuing cooperation." From the moment the children were taken away from their parents, until today, that's about three months ago, there was no contact between their parents and their grandchildren. And now I'm you, given what was 6. 4. I ask what the Inspector meant by saying that there are decisions allowing further cooperation and that there are decisions to erase such cooperation. Did you want to discipline your parents to agree to the withdrawal and discipline them by not allowing them to contact their grandchildren for three months? And it is not true that we can understand or know what old parents are experiencing. That's not true. We can just think about what they feel, what they're thinking, what these three months are thinking, what they were thinking when they got a text message that the kids were literally stolen, taken away, estranged. Does this seem legal, professional, human to you? Every day in the media we listen, the white van invites the kids, make sure the kids don't steal your kids, then the social work center comes and steals your kids, literally steals them, takes them out of kindergarten, old parents get text messages. It's the same way you turn it around. At that point, you lost them. As a mother of three today, I don't know who's gonna get my kids if, God forbid, something happens to me and my husband. I don't know, there's no paper, there's no man to guarantee that old parents or my sister or aunt or uncle or anyone. There's no paper, no decision, no signature I can hold on to. And that seems to us all normal, legal and professional. And in the end, once again, I, Mrs Bachičeva, respectfully resent this debate, with all due respect I understand perhaps your thinking, but I resent you for saying that, I understood you in the sense that I would give the children to others. And as a mother, I can't imagine anyone being able to think rationally, but as a woman, as a mother who's protecting her children, to her family, that's it. And once again, there's no paper in the country, there's no will, there's no one to guarantee to me today that my children won't be without the will of my parents, so my old parents, my children, taken to a place unknown for three months, unknown to where. No, I can't imagine that. And once again, we should also have that parent, that now in full consciousness, I can say that my will is this and that and that and to be respected, I can write it down, but the social work centers are not said to take it into account. My children can be taken anywhere for three months, six months, I don't know how many years. And these little kids forget their old parents very quickly, they forget those people very quickly. It's a process, the one who has children, you know, if you've gone for a week, you've come back, not that he's forgotten you, but it's a little different. And it can happen when these children see their grandparents after three months, that they will be strangers to them. And then you'll say, "Yah, look, kids resist, don't like it back and forth." Today we don't decide what's right and what's wrong, so where kids belong, where kids don't belong, how kids shouldn't, I don't know, go to the streets. But that was the only thing they had left, because at that press conference, all the professional elites, all the professional elites who had won at that moment, the Ministry and the Centre for Social Work, gathered together to defend what she had done. Was there anyone at that conference who defended rights or the views of old parents? He was gone, he was gone! And what's left? And if these two old parents were so bad, then probably the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec would not write that – I have to read that I will not be anything wrong, that they are not the most suitable, but the Centre for Social Work of Slovenia Gradec notes that "there is a non-conflict, relaxed atmosphere among them, respectful communication to act honestly, honestly and workfully. They felt their mutual support, and their daily problems in the family were solved through conversation." In view of the above, the conclusion of the CSD is contrary to the circumstances identified. But well, this is now the opinion of CSD Slovenia Gradec, Director [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u147	Excuse me. Is this file possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u148	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u149	Is that a file?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u150	Yeah, that's what I'm reading from a court order. However, if this opinion may not count or delete it from your head if you do not want to hear it, we have heard today that the Administrative Court has found that what has been done by Velenje’s Centre for Social Work has been done on 30. 3. 2016, contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Velenje was encroached on the right of the complainant, i.e. the old mother, referred to in Article 8 of the ECHR and Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister has always said that it is not yet legal for judicial proceedings to be decided. These proceedings would not have to be if it were really all the same as you claimed 6. 4. In order to comply with all the laws and regulations and so on and not to violate the Constitution and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. And you say, because it's good, but at the same time, human rights have been violated. How far in Slovenia do you have to violate human rights, laws, procedures that are then proven at the administrative inspection that there has been illegality, how far away do you expect someone to step down? Or take responsibility. Madam Minister, are you going to step down if, in this case, Koroski comes into a legal case and it turns out that human rights have been violated, that the procedures have been wrong and so on. I find it hard to believe. Because you don't take any responsibility at this point either. It was only taken over by CSD Director Slovenj Gradec, who apparently realized that it was better to go, because if he was politically set up without any reference or experience in this area, it was better for him to go. So once again, if everything was all right, things would go as they should, and I'm streaming here with colleague Alenka Bratusek, who said where the social work centers were before. They're gone. You know the case where the husband murdered his wife, three children, then committed suicide in prison. I knew this family well. Dad had a restraining order, one week later, 14 days later, and so on. Reports like that and different, but nothing. And here I agree — where were the centres for social work before or how did they decide? They were there, but how did they decide that such things could happen? Today, we do not say everything on average that social work centres are bad. You're putting this in our mouth again. That's not true. The Minister herself said that the Prime Minister himself said that irregularities were going on and irregularities were going on and that the matter should be reorganised. Because if everything was okay, if social work centres were so good, then that wouldn't be necessary. At the hearing, the Minister said in September 2014 that this was a priority. 10, 15 minutes she talked about CSD that this is a priority because something has to be done because there are too few professional colleagues, that professional colleagues at social work centres are overloaded, that all social work centres do not make the same decision and so on, but nothing has happened until today. When this case happened, things started to happen. When this case happened, suddenly the family code is in public debate. She had every chance the secretary had. Not since 2014. In my position, I said that he has been in the Ministry since 2008, first as a secretary of state. There is still some time left for me to go back to other things that are not only related to the text that is being interpreted. Some who defended the secretary spoke without any source or data. For example, the situation in the area of poverty, the poverty threshold in Slovenia is declining, we have fewer unemployed, we have little less – without resources – everything on average. Those of you on the work committee have this in your hands and there's all the statistics in it. This is the report of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. I've been talking about this since I got this report. And it talks about the social situation in the Republic of Slovenia during the period 2014-2015. But here things aren't as pink as they were said. According to the Slovenian Employment Institute, the number of long-term unemployed has increased since 2010 and reached an average of 61,000 people in the first three months of 2015. In the long-term, the number of people who are severely unemployed has increased, meaning that they have been unemployed for two or more years. Among the very long-term unemployed over two years of age, there are most of those who have only primary school education, a poor third of the disabled and so on, despite favourable economic developments in 2014, and 2015, the problem of long-term unemployment is exacerbated. Unfortunately, time is running out. We could also continue on the false statistics of the unemployed, when we finally find that some 140 000 people in Slovenia are missing, that unemployment is declining in Pomura on Austria's account, which is also what the report says. Madam Minister, Prime Minister Cerar said you were objectively responsible. That's what we're reading in our interpellation. You say the opposite. The courts are proving it. I must say, what we have kept repeating today is yours. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u151	Replica, Mrs. Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you, President, for your word. Mrs Jelka, I would just like to tell you what was the purpose of my debate. Admitting whether we can or can't do it because it's about kids, giving our kids, our grandkids, if they were given to us, our best quality life. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u153	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! A few things have happened. I would therefore like to say in the introduction to Mr Han that it is really sad if a child of two must tell 120 and 25 years of age how it works and how it works. Today we have not taken advantage of the time because we have a permanent communication with the Minister and for all the questions we have, we can turn directly to her, and I think we are exemplaryly cooperating. If we do not agree on everything, it is also a matter of political action, which I think we have demonstrated for two years a great deal of patience, patience and maturity. Just because we have very little time left for what I have left, social work centres are not organs in the system, but they have public authority. Maybe when you're preparing the next interpolation, you can use it, I'll give you some thought. And, yes, President, I agree with Mr Tank, in future such interpretations, please no longer put on the agenda because it does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Interpellation must have a question and an explanation of this question. Today we have only a number of eyewitnesses that are, of course, unfounded. By the way, you might be able to use it. With exception, the Ministry shall grant the child’s relative a permit only on the basis of his or her application referred to in Article 8, paragraph 2, of this Law and a written explanation of the conclusion of the Centre of the Child that such a form of child care is of benefit to the child and shall enter it in the register of the licences issued. Of course, it's not about 60, it's a two-month deadline and it's not material, but it's processive and it can be filed from there. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u155	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as the representative of the Interpellation Applicant, will be given the floor. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u156	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Today, after almost 12 hours, I still believe that we all have to believe and trust in the professional work of independent public institutions. It would be good to preserve the social and legal state. It is right that the highest representatives of political power believe in the professional work of the institutions, because that is the only way that people will believe in them. Today you were talking about stolen children, about fear of all citizens and citizens and old parents, that we would take their children away from them to take their children. Does this increase confidence in the institutions of the social state? It is clear from today's debate that if doubts arise, there is always a possibility of a complaint in accordance with procedures within the rule of law. Slovenia is a state of law, and I hope that you do not want or expect or that you may understand competences in a way that, on the basis of a call from a lawyer, friends or anyone else, arbitrarily decides on such an important matter as the taking of children, the placement of children. I do not want this, and I hope that our country will never be such that ministers decide where children who need special protection and protection of the country will be, because their home family is not all right. Social work centres are independent in their work, the Minister on a case-by-case must not interfere, not under the General Administrative Procedure Act, after the division of the relationship between competences, this is more than clear. The profession and social inspection claim that it was done to the benefit of the child. I don't know if on the basis of a lawyer I can fully believe or if in a court of law a judge fully believes one and the other. No, no, no. Institutions are responsible for this. I cannot say, on the basis of this lawyer's call, that social inspection is wrong, the Ombudsman is wrong, everyone is wrong, and the Minister will decide otherwise because the pressure is on the public because the intervention is announced. It would probably be easier if today you did not have to defend yourself if, as you think, the greatest benefit of children was decided. I'll never agree to this as a minister. If it turns out that the benefit of children has not been pursued, it is only right that those who are competent take responsibility. Today, as I hear from the court, they were able to arrange for the first contact between the parents and the child. I am pleased, and I have said several times today in the debate that contacts would have taken place if old parents had landed through their lawyer for contacts. I think he was 19. Fourth first meeting. And also, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, after the ZUP, at the second stage, the Ministry decides and, when transferring local competence in this regard, we have decided. Social work centres have powers under the law. However, in some matters under our Law on Marriage and Family Relations, courts and court decisions on contacts are competent when two adults do not know how to negotiate, the court decides. And that's what happened today. Since you like to refer to the ruling of the Administrative Court, first of all, it is not yet legally binding and does not work. This was also pointed out yesterday in his explanation by the Supreme Court. These are the facts. Unselective reading of judgments or portions of judgments that correspond to a lawyer representing an old parent. Once it answers to someone to read at first stage, the second stage is voted not to be, but the fact is that in our legal system, at first stage, decisions are not yet legally binding and therefore have no effect. However, let me repeat, most of the events mentioned in the interpretation took place before the Ministry received any information on the case. The applicants give me the responsibility to proceed with the Centre for Social Work, which I could neither be aware of nor aware of. In a particular case, neither could I or should I give the Centre for Social Work any guidance on how to proceed, which is based on the role of powers and tasks of individual bodies. 25. 3. As far as the dates are concerned, the grandmother has been informed by e-mail that there are procedures at the Velenje Centre for Social Work concerning the determination of the matter concerning her grandchildren. In accordance with the competence of the Centres for Social Work, we have asked, if they can tell us, not about specific matters, not about the file, because this is a matter of divorce, the Ministry decides on this at the second stage and the Ministry prohibits that the Ministry may participate in the decision at the first stage. He forbids it! I've asked in accordance with the authority to tell me what's in this matter. Not about a particular case, not what you're questioning me about, what the child's benefit is, why it was taken away, but to tell me. But they're responsible for getting things done. This happened on Monday. It was a holiday Monday, so this mail went forward. Since there were public doubts about work, it was only to protect the institution, not to protect it in the sense that I covered it, but that the social inspection carried out control. Because this is my jurisdiction, the only one I have. The Social Inspectorate was in control and you're talking about a press conference all the time. In fact, you correctly state that I said there what the findings of the social inspection were. And that's all. I have done so with my marital role of control. And now we're still talking about this particular case. It's not finished. The proceedings are still pending both in the Ministry and in the Court. So that there would be no doubt about the legality and regularity of the proceedings, I asked the Government to take me out of these procedures, because as chairman, as Minister, I am responsible for the authority that decides on the second stage, but you have not highlighted this. No, no, no. You're saying we have to interfere with the functioning of social work centres. You say that all the time. Data from a specific procedure shall not be made available to the public. Members shall not be exempt from public or closed meetings. The President of the National Assembly made it clear at the outset that data from the ongoing proceedings or those concerning individuals who are more protected than all State secrets in relation to the National Assembly and Members because Members have the right to look into and act with due diligence. In the latter cases, therefore, in cases where procedures are under way and when it comes to an individual, none of the Members have access to their functions or their rights. You've invited me many times today. On the committee, you called the Secretary of State and you were afraid we wouldn't give you any reasons. You want us to break the law. You want me to break the law all the time. I am aware that no procedure is complete, no system is perfect, and I am always for improvement. I therefore call on you if you have concrete and constructive proposals for improving the system to mediate them. I've never had a problem with that, and I'm always there for improvement. You're giving me a delay in drafting a family code that you broke on your own because of one article. Your Government's ministers objected to the transfer to court, which is why you did not deal with it in the Government, because you did not want to make the necessary funds available at the time of economic growth for the transfer of powers. At the same time, you agreed by the entire social and legal profession that the rights of children and others would be so significantly better. During the economic crisis of the government of Borut Pahor we accepted this. We agreed on a transfer, provided financial resources in much more difficult times than the 2004-2008 period. You're saying I haven't provided funds for child support for all children. The truth is that your government, with the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, has taken away the child allowance from 45,000 children. Another 97,000 downgraded it. We have now managed to return at least this 97 000. You're giving me a political frame. It is true that I received a letter from the Community of Centres for Social Work immediately after the adoption of the 2013 mandate, in which I was reminded that the practice you set up in the previous year, led by the SDS, should be changed. Therefore, we have adopted additional criteria, we have raised demands, public calls are public. That's a fact. The Community of Social Institutions is. [[Incomprehensible]] Ideological elements have never represented the leadership of my work, not in the role of State Secretary and not in the role of Minister. But, like all of us here, I am a politician with my values. I am never ashamed to say that I am a Social Democratic and therefore I am guided by the belief that the country is responsible for ensuring equal rights for all. And I know it sounds very hard for you. I believe that children who already live in same-sex families have the right to have the same rights in this country. And that's what I've always been proud of, and always will be. Family law is always and must always be the greatest benefit of the child. And the institutions that are part of this country that are responsible have the task of taking care of it. Today's debate on interpolation, and also my work, is based on facts and results. My fundamental principles are solidarity, social justice, equality, human dignity and security. And my leadership, and I'm doing my best, is an agreement, trust and common good. I have been listening all day to what I am responsible for: for migrants, even for the referendum on the exit of Great Britain from the European Union, for Orlando, probably for the exit of Russian football fans this afternoon. You've been trying to destroy the work of our ministry all day. Fortunately, though, the facts speak differently. The number of unemployed has decreased, the number of employees has increased in all categories, including among young people. And this has been helped by the actions of our ministry. Like Youth Guarantees, a programme that has also been recognised as good practice by the European Commission. We've introduced deficit scholarships. The minimum income has also increased in my mandate. Despite the crisis, Slovenia, on an international scale, maintained relatively high social inclusion and accessibility to public services and one of the lowest income inequalities. In this area we belong to a group of countries such as Austria, Denmark, France, Finland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden. Slovenia devotes less resources to social protection than the average of the European Union. That's a fact. But on the other hand, by these means, as we manage them in the way we divide them, we are more effective than most European countries, as we are reducing the risk of poverty by 42.4%. While the average in the European Union countries is one-fifth lower and only 35% lower. Yeah, we could probably do more if we had more resources. But you're also aware of the country's needs, and you're usually talking about fiscal rule, debt reduction and all that. Usually, then, you have to tell me where we're gonna take this money. All these results are the fruit of the ministry I run. I've heard today that I've been running it for at least eight years. Maybe that's all I've done on March 20, 2013, and the government of Alenka Bratušek, I can say that unfortunately, because she did a lot of good, she worked more than a year or less. Then we had an election. And now I've been Minister of the Government of Mir Cerar for two years. But I hear two terms, which is at least eight years. So I'm a less time minister responsible for this department, like your government's mandate, where there was no family code, or a number of measures that would probably be. But I know it's nice to sit in the position you have and say what it takes. And I agree with you. It's not like there's a situation where you could say everything's fine. I never said that. That is why we have approached the reorganisation of social work centres and do not think this is happening because of this case. We are talking because we are aware of the importance of reorganisation, in agreement with the expert, in agreement with all those involved for some time. Now the first steps are that we can also start doing this in the field. But it's a big step. The reorganisation of 62 centres for social work means that we need to change all legal acts, all contracts with all employees, so that we need to change most of the premises, agree on where something will be. Then it is necessary to agree on the whole system, to inform this new system. In short, the reorganisation of social work centres is very demanding only from an organisational point of view. To think then of it as a family code, which is also a transfer of power, this will make a significant difference in working at social work centres. Then, on the other hand, we have social activation, which is again a completely different story, and it goes to social work centres. I told you about the IT calculation. All of this is in this area, where it's probably hard to say that the changes haven't happened and that we haven't done anything. The family code is really important. Today may have been the most painful thing to do, among other things, when you say we haven't done anything. In this national assembly, there was a debate over a year and a half on the family code. And the fact is, the Family Code was rejected at the referendum. But please also let me say that he was rejected because he included an identical solution to the issue of same-sex and their rights, as is now in force under the Partnerships Act. To prove that the family is the only one we have, we have lost everything that was good, so that we have what we have today in the way we have. Being intertwined in an area that is so difficult is not easy. And today, when I've been listening to you all this time, the criticism, the constructive, the less constructive, the whole time I've been going through my head, where I could do otherwise what I could change. There's always more to be done. Every time you do things, you could say back they'd be different. But me and my team are doing our best and whoever's doing this is making a mistake. Don't make any mistakes. At the end of this debate, I would like to thank all those who have discussed all those who will vote against the interpretation. I hope that with my answers before the National Assembly, before you, Members and Members, because you, you are giving me this mandate, have responded to what has been put into interpretation. There has also been a lot of talk about the work of the department, which is extremely difficult and demanding, and I hope that my answers were good enough for you and that you will reconsider when you decide to press the key. But I thank everyone for this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u157	Ms Suzanne Leup Šimenko, representative of the Interpellation Speaker, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, you have not convinced us with your answers. Not primarily because you didn't argue with them. In the introduction, you spoke 80% of the time about things that are not the subject of today's interpretation. It was similar in the course of the debate, so you certainly did not convince us and I believe that there are many others in this national assembly. Dear Minister, you are deceiving the public by saying that we want you to break the law. We're not making any decisions here today. Today we are only talking about irregularities in the procedures that have occurred in the bodies that are within your ministry. Dear Mr Horvath, I have made it perfectly clear and not once have I said that social work centres are the bodies of the Ministry. The only body in the Ministry of Labour is the Labour Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and within this inspectorate is the Social Inspectorate. It's the only body in the Ministry. Here. Social work centres are independent, but still belong to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. And that is why they are also responsible for their work, for the ministry as a whole. Facts and results. You've pointed that out more than once. Yeah, well, the numbers say a lot of things. What results? Write-offs, valuations, debt write-offs? More than likely, the main theme will be the reorganisation of social work centres. Have you already found a contractor for this, externally, because within the Ministry you don't have enough qualified people to be able to do this? You'll be spending your taxpayer's money again. And not just for someone to reorganize, but for you to promote it. What makes you think that's necessary? It's just a waste of tax money, which is totally unacceptable. About the Family Code. Dear Minister, the Family Code was placed at stake in 2012 for the rights of same-sex women, which you added to this code. Only because of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u159	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u160	It's true. There's been a referendum. However, the referendum was decided by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The will of the people who have this opportunity to have authority in Slovenia is supposed to have it, and you said before that people's will must be respected. Yes, even in this case it had to be respected. But when you performed your term of office on March 20, 2013, if I remember correctly, then this moratorium on this code has already expired. We could prepare a new one with similar content, without ideologically added to it. If we go through all the irregularities we've been exposing here today. What we've been exposing in interpolation holds true. We filed it two months ago and in the meantime a lot happened, so of course the content of the interpolation could not be updated properly. In the meantime, a decision of the Administrative Court came forward, which confirmed not least what we referred to in the interpretation. So, yes, absolutely, today, if someone is reading the content of the interpolation, it is not updated, but you need to look at the date. Procedures have taken place, many facts have emerged within this period, and many arguments have come to the fore, which we have already mentioned in our own interpretation. What's the issue? There was a dispute over how to take the children. In this regard, a number of experts, the guardian, made public. Their mother's killer wasn't deprived of her parental rights. I don't know, maybe she's already been to him. But by the time we filed for interpretation, the procedure for the seizure of parental rights had not been initiated. And this event took place at the end of December. Irregularity of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje. The child has not been assigned a guardian under Article 182 of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, which should normally be, unless it is in the interest of the children, which in this case, given that the children were in their parents for three months, we certainly cannot claim. Social inspection carried out surveillance only on the basis of reports from the Velenje Centre for Social Work. She did not take the other side into account, did not take their opinion into account. These are all the irregularities we've been alerting. These are the facts. And many of these were also in the judgement of the Administrative Court. It also meant that there were no stamps when an application for parental care was made by an old mother, that human rights under Article 53 of the Constitution had been violated and that it was contrary to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. And last but not least, it was wrong for parents not to be parties to the procedure. Perhaps even after this decision in this area something will change because, as you said, the procedures are proceeding. But we're wondering why it was even necessary for all these procedures to happen. None of this would have to happen if things were going legally. And why was it necessary to take the child away in the way the center decided? None of this, neither the debate nor your press conference on April 6th, would be necessary if everything was going as it should be. Dear Minister, with all the irregularities mentioned today, I will not repeat everything again, and it is clear to you that you have interfered disproportionately with constitutionally protected human rights. That as the holder of some public authority, you did not take care of the child's benefit, but you should be defending it as a minister. We are also showing you the politicisation of the Centre for Social Work, although you are always stressing how purely autonomous they are. But when it came to manning, you were more than likely able to intervene a little. And unfortunately, such a political decision has led to illegal conduct. It was to the detriment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so that more than obviously all of these organizations are not so independent, at least when you are recruiting, because it was more important than the content of the interpretation itself. As it is said, you have not prepared legislation to protect children's rights, but you have had the opportunity and time to do so. Because of everything that's been going on, it's really one case, full of irregularities. But at that time, there was a lot of other things going on. The numerous irregularities of the citizen and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are noted, some have daily and frequent contacts with people at the centres, in homes and so on. Of course, we do not claim that everyone is doing bad and that we cannot throw everyone in the same basket. All these things also cause the public to lose confidence in the social state. You used political powers to cover up certain irregularities. That is why we, too, had to intercede against you, Your Honorable Minister. Let me point out that also the Prime Minister of the Government, you were in an interview on 26 May, after this interview, said that due to the irregularity of procedures certain aspects of objective responsibility could be found. He also assessed it, and I believe that he is an expert in this field, because he has written a lot about objective responsibility. That there are very different criteria, we can already be sure. What if we just look at when the last minister from this government, the Minister of Culture, was leaving? Finally, the reasons were very unusual, at least those given to the public by the President of the Government. And I'm going to remind them a little bit because they have much less weight than all the irregularities that have occurred in the case of these Korean boys. For the first time, the President of the Government said that the Minister did not exercise sufficient personal responsibility for the joint work of the Government. Secondly, he said that the Minister was very slow in carrying out tasks in the field of his department. Thirdly, he said that the Minister had often sought reasons not to carry out her tasks by exposing the lack of availability of sufficient budgetary resources so far. These, and often public appearances, were incorrect. These were the reasons for the President of the Government, who in the pre-election battle was very much exposed to ethics and morality alone, how everything would be different. Really?Oh, my God! With what? By making the SMC's website public if anyone is going to run for office in the world, let us know. Is that how it is?Oh, my God! Or right now, when, I don't know, this might be more likely for the Minister of Labour to know when the exchange is going on and when you're putting your people back in retirement homes in Isola and Illyrian Bistrica. In view of the statements made over the last two days, it is more than obvious that the coalition did not have much interest in the content of the interpolation and the irregularities that have taken place here. It was more about measuring power within the coalition, about blackmailing who would be somewhere, what else could be given, what percentages for what supplements, what little things, and not least for the various recruitments in the world of institutions. These were the key things you were dealing with. In a way, I also understand the largest group of Members that today has had extremely little debate with regard to the number of Members it has in this national assembly. But I believe that irregularities have been presented, the arguments are concrete, we have talked about procedures, we have not decided on content. That's why I believe a lot of you will support this interpolation. And I also propose to all Members that you support it. And that the content of interpolation should be important, not that diverse political buying and measuring power within the coalition. Make sure the contents are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u161	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko and Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, please also report by pressing the microphone button. In this case they will be given the floor as the last, first the Minister and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. No, it's not. Since there are too many applications, there is no more discussion. This concludes the debate on interpolation. Mr Pojbič, everything that is going on in this National Assembly is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and your conduct is offensive to me, to the conduct and functioning of this National Assembly. I'm asking you to stop this right now. We will decide on the proposal for interpretation following the end of the 30th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 28th item of the agenda. I also interrupt the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed in 15 minutes by consideration of agenda item 30. We'll continue at 10:05, as announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u162	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, is, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Court of Auditors Act 18. 5. 2016 proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint a mag as the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Mojco Mountainšek. In accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Court of Auditors Act, a member of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed for a period of 9 years from the date on which he takes office. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac, for a further explanation of the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u163	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The President of the Republic decided, after the procedure had been carried out and after consultations, to propose mag to the National Assembly for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Mojco Planinshek, Master of Economic Science. Mag. She is the Supreme State Auditor of the Court of Auditors. She obtained the scientific title of Master of Economic Sciences in 2001. It shall have the title of State Auditor, State Internal Auditor and State Auditor. Since January 1996, she has been employed in the Court of Auditors, where her career has progressed from the audit assistant to the post of Supreme Auditor for Local Self-Government, which she took over in 2008. Mag. Mojca Planinšek is an expert in areas that are important for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. It has extensive experience and expertise in financial auditing, public finances, knowledge of public financial rules, knowledge of local self-government and the business of local communities, and knowledge of the structure of European Union institutions. It has extensive international experience that includes working experience abroad and participation at various conferences, workshops and seminars. In 2002, she participated in a twinning project with the National Audit Office in Great Britain and further educated there that same year. Between 2007 and 2008, she was a Fellow of the Robert Bosch Bellevue Foundation, which worked at the Court of Auditors in Portugal. Its active involvement in the functioning and development of the Court of Auditors at the same time represents an important experience of detailed knowledge of the procedures and process of work in that institution. It also reflects its high degree of belonging to the Court of Auditors, its mission and its desire to participate in its development. Knowledge in the field of the public sector, particularly the budgets and operations of municipalities, is one of the more important areas of operation of the Court of Auditors. Mag. Mountaineer's very knowledge in this area is trying to provide lectures to the widest possible public sector workforce. She participated in two large regional consultations in the co-organisation of municipalities and the Court of Auditors. Mag. She gained good organisational, managerial and communication skills in her professional work, actively speaking English and passively speaking German and Portuguese. Mag. After the decision of the President of the Republic for her candidacy, she also presented herself publicly. In a public presentation, or news in the process of proposing candidates to the President of the Republic for the most responsible functions in the country, which in our opinion contributes further to the greater transparency of these procedures, the candidate also presented her vision. Among other things, it believes that this institution must respond as quickly as possible to risks in the functioning of the public sector in times of financial crisis and rapid environmental change and be as responsible as possible. It must be in the service of protecting the financial interests of citizens and citizens against public financial risks. It must ensure that public funds are spent not only legally but mainly economically, effectively and effectively. As the biggest challenges facing the public sector in the years to come, it sees the need for structural reforms, including, in particular, pension, health and tax reform, addressing budgetary deficit and public debt issues, the design and sustainability of prices of non-economic and economic public services and the need to reshape or modernise public institutions. The President of the Republic also held thorough consultations with the heads of all parliamentary groups of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly, according to the assessment of the candidates. On this basis, the reasoned conclusion is that the applicant also has all the necessary support for the appointment. The President of the Republic is convinced that the Mag. Mountaineering’s work thus far proves that it is a person who is professional, experienced, capable and motivated to take on the challenge of becoming a member of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Mojco Planinšek as second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u164	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors appointing the National Assembly, it shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Group of the Social Democrats, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Group of Members of the United Left, Mrs. Iva Dimic, Group of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word in favour or the word against. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 22.25 p.m. and will last until 22.40 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt the 30th item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 22.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u165	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Continue with the adjournment of the proposal for the appointment of a second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors Let me read the record. Let me read the record. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 15 June 2016. 77 ballots were distributed. 77 ballots were delivered. There were 22 invalid ballots. There were 55 valid ballots. 55 members voted in favour, no one voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. Mojca Planinšek with a majority of the votes of all Members appointed second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Please, mag. Mojco Planinšek, second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u166	I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u167	You want to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u168	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! I would like to thank the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the proposal to appoint and to you Members and Members for supporting this proposal. Given that I am coming from the Court of Auditors, I consider my appointment to be a sign of trust in the work of our institution and of commitment and motivation for my further operation. Together with the members of the Court of Auditors, we will continue to seek to identify the main risks in the functioning of the public sector, our auditors and report them objectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u169	Other Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors, and I wish her great success in her duties. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 28th item on the agenda, which is the interpretation of the Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The interpreter proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: On the basis of the interpretation tabled, the National Assembly expresses its non-trust to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will vote in favour of the dismissal of Minister of Labour, Dr. Anje Kopač Mrak. Today's debate was quite a long one, but I must say that the Minister did not convince us in any way with her answers. More or less, she tried in her responses to things that were not even a proposal for interpretation. However, we can confirm that in the process of taking two Korean boys, there have been many irregularities and illegalities, which the Administrative Court has found not least. Last but not least, as has been the case today, which has been judged by the Court in Celje, that old parents need to be able to contact their children without delay, confirms that there has been an irregularity in the process itself. We will, of course, support interpolation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u171	First, we will do everything on behalf of the groups of Members. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! We made it clear in the United Left at the time of the presentation of the position and later in the debate that we disagree and distance ourselves from the points expressed in the interpretation, as proposed by the proposer. On the other hand, we note that the social picture in Slovenia is in itself sufficiently eloquent and that the insufficient measures taken by this minister and this ministry are sufficiently eloquent that there are sufficient reasons to clearly support the interpretation. Nothing has been done in this mandate to eliminate poverty. Nothing has been done in this mandate to eliminate the uplifting luxury, which is 14% per year, and we see an increase. Nothing has been done in this mandate to eliminate, above all, long-term unemployment and the deepening of poverty, which, despite the improvement of the economic situation in the country, is becoming an increasing problem. Therefore, in the United Left, it is time for the Minister to leave, and it is time to change the paradigm of the country's social policy. In its work, its team, which has been led by the Ministry for practically 6 years, has shown that there are no plans for a programme to improve the situation, so it is time for social policy in Slovenia to change. I hope that we will take the first step towards this today. In the United Left, we will support interpolation for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u173	Mr Jan Škoberne has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President, President of the Government, the esteemed Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is one that monitors a person in some way from birth to death. The scope of the responsibilities assumed by this Ministry means that mistakes are also taking place. That this ministry needs most of all a minister or a minister who does not hide from the challenges, who does not run away from mistakes, but answers and works in accordance with his authority and in accordance with people's expectations. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities had a minister in this and previous mandate, and it also has a minister today who has done just that. The fruit of its work is also a significant reduction in unemployment, the result of its work is an increase in the resources for active employment policy, that today we have 97 000 more beneficiaries for child allowances, 3 000 more beneficiaries for scholarships, that we have scholarships for deficit jobs, that in the case of jobs we can count on temporary housing, that in the case of executions of children's allowances, financial assistance, a protective allowance remain on the accounts, in short, that the standard of living of people is higher than it would have been if someone who is social policy, solidarity and also a fair attitude to work did not understand. Dr Anja Kopač Dark has shown that it is not here to force and enforce unilateral measures to overcome the conflict between capital and work, to want to enforce its solutions on the basis of social dialogue, by connecting both employers and trade unions to try to do what is most important, to understand that both those who create and those who manage capital must create, in a spirit of community responsibility, in cohesiveness and in a spirit of community responsibility. Social Democrats will vote against interpretation and we continue to want responsible and, above all, strong leadership from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. There are still many challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u175	Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, ministerial assembly! The votes of the SMC Group will be against – against gaining, collecting political points at the expense of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable people in our country and our society. Our votes against will be against the theft and trade between political parties. Our votes against will allow the continuation of a well-established, responsible and credible social policy, such a policy that will continue to reduce the unemployment rate, reduce the rate or poverty threshold among our people, which will increase the social inclusion of our people, which will be able to provide safe age for older people, who will be able to provide opportunities for younger generations, which will also ensure greater income equality among peoples in our country. Our voices today say: The modern centre is here because of people, not because of themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u177	Mr Franc Jurša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, President. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners made it clear, through the presentations of the Group's views and through the debate, that it would vote in favour of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak. We do not agree with the social policy of Mrs Anja Kopač Dark, we do not agree with the social policy of the party to which Mrs Anja Kopač Dark belongs. We would like the Minister to remain in this position to substantially change the policy and include in this policy all the other factors that we are responsible for ensuring social security in this country. It's not just one customer, it's all customers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u179	An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. In the New Slovenia Group, we will vote in favour of interpolation because we have already pointed out in our positions that social policy is not the social policy that we wanted 25 years ago, that we have an increasing number of poor people, that we have exploited workers, that we do not have long-term care for the elderly who are most vulnerable in our country, that we do not have the right policy as regards employment, that we do not have a personal assistant. We will vote, not least because yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Cerar, answered the press question, quote, "in fact, this is an event with Korean boys which is shocking, which is painful for every citizen. We all feel bad that this has happened and we do not want such procedures to continue in the future." This is why we will vote in the New Slovenia Group for interpretation, because we also have no answer to the question whether the child's benefits or rights in such sensitive matters as placement in the foster family have protected the guardian of the child's benefits. I asked the Minister myself about the Ombudsman's benefits on 20 April 2015 and warned her that it was also necessary to ensure the Ombudsman's rights under the law. If that had happened, these cases probably would not have happened. That is why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u181	Now he has an explanation for the vote in his own name, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I have to say, I am also at the meeting that the other ministers will know, that all the members of the Commission led by Mrs Irgle have offered the minister my support and that I do not vote in favour of the interpretation if he lists the reasons why the old parents are not appropriate. So you'll know you won't say we're all like that in SDS. But despite the fact that we closed the meeting to the public to keep this information secret, the Secretary of State said at the meeting: I do not want a word. But when we had our second session, the secretary of state said she had nothing to say. Look, this means that we haven't solved the key issue today. But the key question is why old parents are not suitable. Since the Minister does not have an answer to this question, I will support the interpretation. There's nothing left for me, ladies and gentlemen. Since everything is clear, there are no answers, the Minister is objectively responsible and, of course, protects the subordinates. When I sat alone in that place, I didn't protect my subordinates, but I said if it was proven that the signatures went to my subordinates' fault, I'd leave. Despite the fact that Mr Klemenčič was working very hard at the time and sent some letters to the National Assembly 5 minutes before the present. But to finish, I'm going to support the interpellation, but it's true that the Minister can't answer now, so I have to say so. The secretary said it didn't affect the work of subordinates. But look, a while ago, she sent a group of experts to Isolo. But I would ask her why, if I could, but now I can't. I would ask her why she sent a group of experts to Isolo, who violently dismissed the board of directors. I can't ask her. I'd like to ask her why she's sending a group of experts to Illyrian Bistrica to change the world and set up SD people, and you've got the pieces from Desus. But I can't ask that. I'll support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u183	The explanation, in its own name, is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. I've been listening to this, especially today. I'd start like this. See, children or children, as we say in the White Land, are not owned by parents, not by old parents, not by relatives, not by numinous beings, not by countries. I'll support this interpolation on the other side of this. Why? Let us remember a little bit about the beginning of this term. We have scholarships in the way of who runs faster. When this system collapses, it repeats again who runs faster. We have a sizable and lack of internal control in the social work centres, which is no wonder that informatics is distributed along party lines, that a company for a programme worth €6 000 500 will receive €600,000 for annual maintenance and will receive millions more over the tender. Dear colleague Kopač, I will vote in favour of the interpretation because I cannot support the Minister, who says, oh, the non-governmental sector will take care of the welfare state. I will vote in favour of the interpolation, because since that establishment that Mr Desus, Mr Svetlik, had carried out at the time when social finance became a credit, all the governments that have been paddling, left, right and right have been spreading this social state. I will also vote in favour of interpolation because for me, an active employment policy does not have to be made up of three quarters of public works that fail to achieve their original purpose, so that at least in the medium term people can find a job out of it. I will also vote in favour of the interpretation because, as a methodology, I am not in favour of sending people to agencies that are poorly paid, and then, at a small economic wave, it shows how great the data is. In short, this policy is complicated, this policy is a vulgar bluff that Lukšič drew with Svetlik in, and you've all continued it. And it's about time we stopped. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u185	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, chairman. The conflict between work and capital cannot be exceeded. This conflict is real, it's the biggest social conflict, and the only thing a person can do is pick one side. Those who say that this conflict can be overcome automatically put themselves on the side of capital, on the side of the powerful, and put away the attention of the poor, the unemployed, the working population in the public, the private sector, and only our reprimands. And I cannot support such policies as the socialist, so I will vote against Minister Anja Kopač Dark and against the political option he represents, because there is one large predatory apparatus that has been feudalising the social sector for six years now, and it has effectively led us to have the Minister for Poverty, unemployment, prosperity, poor pensions, but we do not have what we really need: a social and labour resource. Such a minister, such a policy does not deserve my support. I hope that the vote for the United Left's interpolation will help to make the social paradigm, which sees social transfers primarily as a credit, transforms into what social transfers should actually be: helping those who do not have to enter the labour market that do not have to participate equally in it. In short, help to those who really need it, help to pay for the capital and the richest layer of our fellow citizens solidarity, fair, fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u187	Mrs Jelka Godec has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. The Minister said today, "I am a social democrat and I am proud of that". This alone does not mean that you are acting in the sense, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenia is a social state. Our votes for interpolation are in favour, including mine, and also for you to take responsibility for all the irregularities that today appear to have occurred in the case of the Korean boys. That you are also responsible for all those matters that are likely to be clarified in this case, I believe that there will be new decisions by the courts that will prove that the social work centres have acted wrong. You will probably prove to be also responsible as Minister for much more than has been found today. Also in order to support, perhaps for the first time, perhaps never again Dr Cerar, who said that you were responsible and that you were objectively responsible. And he did it twice. I wouldn't brag about the data that we're giving more and more for social, more for child support. That tells you something. This says that the standard in the Republic of Slovenia is falling, which means that there is an increasing number of poor people living below the poverty line. You can read statistics, each one can organize statistics in its own way, but people and their hardships speak their own. I think that the Minister must be responsible for all irregularities so far, i.e. in the case of the Korean boys, at the same time that he supports such a social law as Svetlik's Law, which has taken state pensions, which is a protective allowance or people who would apply for a protective allowance, has made it so low that they do not ask for more and today live in poverty. I think that Members should attach this to the President of the Government and say: yes, the Minister is objectively responsible and therefore this interpretation must also be confirmed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u189	Since there is more interest in explaining your vote on your own behalf, please sign in. Mrs Anita Kolesh has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u190	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers, ministers! I would like to explain why I will vote against the interpretation. Many times I have been disappointed here at the fact that some have taken this mission as a mission for themselves, for their political interests. And that's what's happening today. It is especially sad that they do this on behalf of some children, who are an extremely protected group of people in this beautiful land. And today they are Korean boys, tomorrow some refugee children, someone else, in a few days, in a few months or a year, may be the children of someone who disagrees with a certain political option. And it is even sadder that on this, previously said train, there are others, including our coalition partners, with whom we share this concern for the country. I must say, I am extremely disappointed about this. It seems to me that the state's current situation is something like after an accident on the highway, it's been curved by the ones on the left, and after the ones on the right lane, only the ambulance can come in the middle. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u191	Mr Matjaž German has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much, President. Today and in recent weeks we have witnessed the politics of thousands of faces. It's amazing how to exclude a story that's tragic, but it wouldn't be when we talk about children when we're talking about withdrawals, and it concludes with one affair to remind reporters of RTV, it stands out, and then it's, I'll say, the scene of political opportunism and manipulation. But we are talking about children, about those who should all be dearest to us. We have highlighted them, put them on the pedestal of the public, based on the work of which all policies, such as you, we, they, in recent years, have not been able to adapt systematically in such a way that such events would no longer occur. I regret that some take advantage of this opportunity for political opportunism, while some others, when practically all day long, explain their views when they did not participate in this 13-hour marathon. In politics, it's not enough to work. You have to do it in politics. And we all need to learn that together. I think Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has shown clear guidelines, including those that have been prevented from being implemented in the past. It is the responsibility of all of us not to look for reasons in the future, to avoid what will be the result. I won't support the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u193	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u194	I will vote in favour of interpolation because it is values. Because I want to give the opportunity, when I vote for the interpretation, to get the minister who understands what the values are, that the child is the highest value, and that it is not to be played with. To get a minister who will understand what responsibility is, written in the Slovenian legal order, who says that the Minister is responsible for everything that is happening in his field. It is subjective and objective responsibility. I will vote in favour because I want to get a final minister or a minister who understands what is said in international treaties, international acts ratified and bound by Slovenia when it comes to fundamental human rights or a resolution on children's rights. If we understood that, if we respected values, none of what we are saying today could have happened. Yes, it is. And that's why I'm voting for the interpolation. I will also vote in favour of interpolation because, under this Minister, the social state, the constitutionally protected value of Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia, has become a parody of the rule of law, when some are accessible to all and there is nothing available to others, who are actually in need of assistance. When mothers are thrown out of apartments with young children, when they rob people who are sick to death. This, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer a social state. And this is the responsibility of this government and this minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u195	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll support the interpolation myself. I'll back her up because I'm worried about the future of these two boys. I am concerned about the future of two young lives, because today I see that to politics, the judiciary and the media will lead their path, which leads to justifying the existence of a minister, not on a road that would be good for two boys, for two young people's lives. That's why I'm going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u197	Violeta Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. I support interpolation, but I do not support arguments and reasons for interpolation. Two Korean boys were very badly abused. And these kids are gonna have a lifetime of trauma. And not because they landed in foster care, but because of all the circus that happens around them, all the terrible things that they put through at the death of their mother. I support the Interpellation of Anya Kopač Dark, because both she and the entire government put the interests of the privileged ahead of the interests of the socially disadvantaged. I used to talk about the censorships for children's lunches, how much we had to negotiate here and where we came from. They like to brag about debt write-offs. Here, too, our proposal went wrong and we got something that wasn't a dick or a mouse. Poverty is unconstitutional, and man is by no means a cost. A man is an investment if you want, especially a child. And each child needs resources and needs equal opportunities for its own development. And their parents need dignity to be able to raise these new generations in the faith in good, in the faith that they will receive a fair wage for honest work, in order to be well rewarded with good and badly punished with bad. Unfortunately, however, in our country, which is neither social nor just, we do not give the inhabitants of this message. I will therefore vote in favour of the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u199	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Anja Kopač Dark has a lot of ideas. Thank you. The results aren't enough, so my vote for interpolation. A Korean boy. A story that shouldn't have happened in a democratic country. Valuables, fiasco, cost about 650 grand, ransom 150 grand, score minus half a million. Debt write-off, fiasco. We probably paid more for the electricity that was burned by the reflectors than the debt write-offs. Pensions for deficient professions, fiasco. And a long time ago, the abolition of state pensions, which strongly hit the countryside, the farmers, and put them on their knees. Official data, about 290,000 people live below the poverty line. The mortuary is in the eyes of the minister, I have this feeling, somewhere far away, 200 light-years away. Therefore, it is time for a change in the field of Slovenian social policy and it is time to leave. In fact, the Minister has done nothing to improve the financing of the social state. And, Madam Minister, you've hurt Slovenian families too much. Twice this people has been in power since the flower week of 1990, twice this people have told such a policy. And I do not support the active policy of evicting young graduates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u201	Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf. I saw he was still interested. Please sign up. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u202	Good evening. Of course I'll support the interpolation. I will support it because this coalition of values in this country is putting value on its head. Ministers remain in violation of several laws and constitutions and receive the protection of this government. There are ministers who go to fight because they respect the law. This Minister violated her function and her responsibility under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Convention on Human Rights and violated human rights. Is that really not enough reason for someone to leave? It is sad that you are going, in fact you are going to trade cows, but at the expense of citizens and citizens. And if it's for the good of the people [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u203	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u204	Then, God have mercy on Slovenia! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u205	Any other explanation for the voice? You've already checked in, but you weren't there. There's no more explanation for the voice. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 38. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has not been voted on by Dr Anji Kopač Dark. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
