ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Miha Kordiš, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Jernej Vrtovac, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Andrej Čuš and Mr Jožef Horvat from 16.30 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to the rest of you! Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Good morning! Thank you for your word. The procedure shall apply to the holding of meetings. Parliament is also a form. We all have some different styles of giving ideology up and down. Yesterday we experienced this call from the National Assembly probably the deepest slip. I don't know if you noticed, I was the only one standing up, because my legs were already hurting, with my colleague Milan, the secretary general and the expert listening to everything. You're just like the calf you've been fooling around with. Some lost their judgment because they probably spent too many minutes, others screaming because they didn't let them talk, and the third you walked, as they say in Maribor, "the plaudei". I'm probably the last person in this national council to be in favor of putting a broom over each other's back door, and we're all acting like the Lips of the Gods. Part of Parliamentarianism is also that someone claps for someone to say something in the middle. But the purpose of parliamentaryism as a form is to discuss it. We are in the 21st century, we belong to various political options, the 21st century is perplex, we listen to each other, we debate and we co-decision. This is the purpose of Parliament. What happened yesterday 16 hours and this morning is a total disgrace. I don't think that's gonna happen anymore. That is why I suggest, President – because we say many times that you must be strict with your own – yours acted as seniors yesterday on the last day of your graduation trip. I'm sorry. And it's not funny. It's not funny that you laughed at Jani when he said Vanch couldn't listen, but half of you on Facebook brag about how personal assistants you are. What if we get someone in a wheelchair to Parliament – I hope we get them – or with some other handicap? It's very sad that Franz the Duck, who was once branded rude, is the man who will now have to struggle the most about it. Therefore, it is my procedural proposal that I call on all the Presidents to begin to follow the rules of procedure, and I call on all Members and Members to start acting as adults. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u3	I will take this procedural proposal into account as an invitation that Parliament also needs a certain form and a certain respect and self-respect. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 19 February 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Please re-invest your cards. We vote on the agenda for this session. What has happened now is also an indication that the form of this Parliament is not respected. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is what the proposal recommended in relation to systemic corruption in health. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 25 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelki Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u4	Good-bye, everybody! So today we have an extraordinary meeting on the subject of health recommendations, on the theme of systemic corruption in health, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party together with unrelated Members. The country's central and priority should be human health. Health policy should follow the objective of ensuring that all citizens have access to quality healthcare. After the resolution on the national health plan 2016-2025, which is still in the process and will soon be under review, the user and the operator are placed at the centre. Certain measures, which are set out in the resolution, are expected to bring about an optimisation of health care and fair, solidarity and sustainable financing of healthcare. However, the question that is emerging to us today is how and how will measures in the area of consolidation of public finances, particularly in our case of health finance, be implemented so far and in the future? Have governments, ministries, public health institutions, health care institutions been successful or will they be successful in the future to achieve the goal of achieving financial sustainability in health care? Analysis and resolutions can only be letters on paper, what needs to be done in health care, in order to get close to quality, transparent and modern health care if we do not take this into account. We also want health care that will allow for a zero level of corruption. The zero level of corruption promised today by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the principle with President Mir Cerar. We note that this agony of Slovenian health has been dragging for many years. The current government with Prime Minister Mir Cerar has not yet prepared changes to health legislation to ensure greater efficiency and transparency in the functioning of health institutions and the health system at all. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also not prepared any legislation that would help improve the quality of health services and reduce waiting periods. Most hospitals are faced with losses and the debts at the same time point to irregular funding. Hospitals are supposed to be so financially on the ground, they're supposed to be late paying off suppliers. They require more money, greater attention from the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance and also the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. During the statements made by hospital representatives, we were also able to hear that it is a matter of exhaustion of health care based on the pattern of exhaustion in the economy. We hear from the Health Committee several times that there is little money in health care. Certain data attach to this, but, on the other hand, they escalate various cases that show that money in health has also been used in a transparent way with signs of corruption. That corruption is a strong health system and is partly the cause of the increase in costs in health care, individuals in health care have been warned a long time ago. We could read about this in various officers, journals, online portals, we could read statements from various hospital directors, management staff and some doctors. Recently, however, the Slovenian public and the 25th session of the Commission on Public Finance Supervisory, which was held on 3 February 2016, have been the most excited by the Slovenian public, as well as by the Parliament of the 25th session of the Commission on Public Finances, which was held on 3 February 2016. She stated in her statements that she had also received or had experience in the field of lobbyists herself, that even those who wanted to achieve something were, of course, willing to go to the President of the Government and also to the President of the State for their benefit. At the last 19th urgent meeting of the Health Committee, which was held on Friday 26. 2. 2016, we were able to hear how it is traded in health care. We have been able to hear various statements from the invitees, who have also insisted that there is systemic corruption in health care, but unfortunately there is nothing to be done. We also heard a doctor's statement warning UKC Ljubljana about irregularities, but they did not respond or respond when it warned about procurement irregularities or reverses. In the recommendation proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health, four cases point to criminal acts. Acquisition of equipment to reverse, purchase and service of operating tables, encroachment of health professionals from 2013 and purchase of vein support. The latter is the case where the highest level of corruption may be present. This was also confirmed by the Director of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at the last meeting of the Health Committee. When the financial economic crisis in Slovenia was the most escalating in 2012, there was also a strong decline in public finances or earmarked money for various areas, including health care. There have also been increasing warnings that in Slovenia vascular cords are obtained at much higher prices than abroad. Up to five or six times the price. At that time, the best sales were made in our hospitals by one supplier of the Slovenian supplier. The higher prices are due to the fact that this Slovenian supplier is third in the supply chain to Slovenian hospitals. As the President of the Commission pointed out to prevent corruption at the last meeting of the Health Committee, in the event that the manufacturer sells vascular resistance to a company abroad, the same material is then sold to the company or supplier in Slovenia and only then to the hospitals, which is why in these cases the biggest level of corruption occurs. And this was happening in Slovenia. The lowest possible level of corruption is when there is no intermediary between the manufacturer and the buyer or only an official domestic supplier. The question is why Slovenian hospitals did not use direct purchases or smaller chains or just one intermediary. Dr. Marko Noč, a specialist in cardiology and cardiovascular medicine and intensive medicine, who has worked for UKC Ljubljana for many years, has recently revealed to the Finance Officer that things at the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre have deteriorated greatly after he has strongly contributed to a drastic reduction in the prices of vascular cords and has thus clearly shaken into the earning area of the medical-supply lobby. This reduction in the price of vascular restraints is intended to reduce or save at least EUR 2 million per year. Respected, if such irregularities or similar situations continue to occur, we cannot expect the objectives set out in the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 to be met. We cannot expect Slovenia to see transparent, quality and modern health care in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health propose a recommendation covering several conclusions. Decision recommending to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health to explore the possible claims of the current head of UKC Ljubljana, issued at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission 3. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health of the National Assembly present an analysis of the effects of the action taken by the common public procurement in health, which was envisaged for 2015. We recommend that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health take all necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise the procurement and services related to medical equipment, with a focus on expensive medical equipment. We also propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health invite all competent institutions to take immediate and more decisive action to identify the responsibility of individuals in acts of corruption. We believe that these recommendations help to reduce systemic corruption in health, bring zero tolerance towards corruption and are only the help of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health to take more concrete and decisive action in this area. Unfortunately, the coalition has already decided on the parental committee not to approve the recommendations, but I must say that we have not heard any concrete arguments on the parental committee either, why we could not accept those recommendations. So I'm asking the expensive coalition and the National Assembly, when are you going to end up with nice words about ethics and have to, and start with serious work and get serious about systemic corruption in health?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u5	The proposal for a recommendation is 26. 2. 2016 discussed by the Health Committee. As the Committee did not adopt the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! The proposal for a recommendation on systemic corruption in health was addressed by the Committee at its 19th emergency meeting. 2. as a mother's working body. Of course, the conversation was about the subject of health corruption. The proposal was tabled at the initiative of the SDS Members of the SDS Group with the first signed by Mr Jozet Tank. It was also published on the website of the National Assembly. In addition, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a recommendation. Ms Jelka Godec also explained the reasons for the meeting. In its proposal for a recommendation, she stressed on behalf of the proposer that there have been many problems in Slovenian health care in recent years that are not being solved. The analysis of the health system, which was produced by the World Health Organization, which spent EUR 360 000 on, shows Slovenian health care in a better and different light than we see citizens every day. The commitments of the Coalition Treaty are not expected to be fulfilled, and the existing Government and the Ministry of Health have not prepared changes to health legislation to ensure greater efficiency and transparency in the functioning of the health system. Among other reasons for the convening of the meeting are the waiting periods, which have even increased in recent years, the burning human resources and employment policy at all levels, the crisis of management in health institutions, the losses and debts faced by many hospitals. In Slovenian health care there is a strong exhaustion in the form of corruption and bribery, and clear and unambiguous indicators show the operation of various lobbying. The investigations carried out so far did not lead to conclusions and an appropriate epilogue. The applicant has also repeatedly pointed out individual cases that show clearly how materials are overpaid in Slovenian health care and how management and procurement services do not even try to negotiate for lower prices. In Slovenian health, corruption causes higher costs, non-economic and non-economic business, prolongs waiting periods and endangers the quality of health services. The proposers are of the opinion that the competent institutions should respond more strongly to all irregularities and suspicions of corruption and have therefore proposed appropriate recommendations. The Committee also took note of the written opinion and some reservations made by the Legal Service, presented by Dr. Samo Divac. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Ms Nina Pirnat, stressed that the analysis of the health system had led to conclusions on the basis of a resolution on the national healthcare programme 2016-2025. In the field of supervision in the management and management of public health institutions in 2015, the Ministry of Health established a protocol for representatives of the founders in sacred institutions, where candidates are selected and checked in accordance with a specific procedure. The government is implementing a programme of measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption, where it is defined that the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, is implementing a programme of centralisation and informationisation of public procurement. However, this systemic approach aims to improve the transparency of the supply of the market for medicines, medical devices and medical equipment. Last year, the Ministry also carried out a procedure for the purchase of equipment for 7 emergency centres, saving around 30% of the planned funds. Further measures carried out by the Ministry of Health were presented. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not supported the recommendation because it is inappropriate and in some parts illegal. The Committee held a debate, which was controversial by a number of invited representatives, and we were also involved. Finally, the Committee voted on a proposal for a recommendation which it did not adopt. On the basis of the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we have found that the proposal for a recommendation on systemic corruption in health in the home working body has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u7	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken corruption in a very systematic and comprehensive way to manage it, which is why it adopted a specific Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in early 2015 to prevent corruption for the period 2015-2016, entitled Zero Tolerance to Corruption. It also contains a specific measure of centralising and informing public procurement in public health. The Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health must provide a system to ensure the transparency of purchase prices, quantities, supply of our drug market, medical supplies and medical equipment at the annual level, both at hospitals and at common costs. At the end of July last year, the Government also adopted a two-year action plan to implement the Public Administration Development Strategy 2015-2016 on the basis of a programme of measures. The vision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to organise a modern public administration that will respect the principles and values also in the field of transparency, integrity and prevention of corruption. The objective that the Government wants to achieve with a common public health procurement is to ensure greater transparency in the supply of our market with all the components that our healthcare needs. In the execution of public procurement, it will help to establish effective information solutions that will enable the inclusion of data on the required quantities of medicines and other common procurement items in hospitals, the preparation of specifications for the purposes of public tendering, the selection of best bidders, monitoring of the execution of the procurement and costs. The establishment of effective information solutions is a fundamental condition and a necessary basis for the implementation of the common public procurement in the health sector. By the end of 2014, the Government had adopted a decision appointing a working group to carry out a joint procurement project in the health sector. This group consists of representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Health as well as health professionals. An internal working group is also appointed within the Ministry of Health and the subgroup itself, which will prepare tendering conditions for medicinal products and to prepare expert descriptions and tendering conditions for each individual subject matter of the joint procurement, both in the field of medical devices and medical equipment. A number of actors are involved in the preparation of information solutions for the purposes of joint procurement, including the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the National Institute for Public Health and Informatics and Managers of Hospital Pharmacies. By decision of March 2015, the Government also fixed contracts for needles, diapers, gloves, catheter and dilation material as a total public contract for 2015. Due to the complexity of this contract, both by content, volume and number of subscribers and stakeholders involved, and given the fact that they were first implemented as joint public contracts, we have encountered major obstacles and their implementation has therefore been carried over to 2016. The Government's decision to determine the subject matter of public contracts for this year includes the following items: needles, gloves, diapers, infusion and transfusion systems, catheters and material for respiratory therapy. In November 2015, the Ministry of Health issued a decision on the appointment and composition and tasks of the expert commission for joint procurement of diapers, gloves and needles. The Commission has already drawn up a proposal for technical specifications for these objects and these specifications were sent for review and possible additions to the Slovenian Institute for Standardisation and the Slovenian Institute for Quality and Metrology in mid-January. These two institutes responded and sent specific comments. Currently, the necessary quantities of individual hospitals are being collected by means of an information system or so-called e-catalogue module, the preparation of tender documents and the publication of joint procurement procedures in accordance with the indicative timetable. By the end of January, the hospitals submitted proposals to the members of the technical specifications technical committees for the implementation of the joint procurement procedures for the rest of the items foreseen for this year. This is for purchase of catheters, purchase of infusion and transfusion systems and purchase of material for respiratory therapy. The implementation of the joint procurement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with the indicative timetables set out in the conclusions of the Government. It should be noted that the joint public procurement project in the field of health is for operational deployment and implementation of the joint public procurement over a longer period of time. In doing so, it is necessary to distinguish the specificity of the joint procurement of medicinal products from the specificity of the joint procurement of medical devices, including medical equipment. The purpose of the joint public procurement in healthcare is to establish non-discriminatory, competitive conditions for providers of medicinal products and medical devices. This is the basis for achieving the lowest possible purchase prices, with the undiminished quality of medicines and medical devices, and for ensuring greater transparency in both providers and hospitals. The procedures already carried out demonstrate and demonstrate that public procurement in health is the right path and that it must be continued and sought to standardise purchases for all hospitals of which the Republic of Slovenia is the founder. It should also be pointed out that the Ministry of Health has already begun to reorganise the area of the acquisition of expensive equipment at the beginning of its mandate, so within the Ministry we have carried out a project of a network of emergency centres and have carried out a joint procurement procedure for certain equipment. This was for the emergency centre Celje, Izola, Jesenice, Maribor, Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, Slovenj Gradec. The procedure was successfully carried out, as was confirmed by all controls. In this process, the Ministry of Health saved 30% of all the money originally made on the basis of offers by setting standards. Instead of €8.9 million, we thus saved €3.3 million and paid only €5.6 million for these 7 centres for expensive equipment. I must warn you that the financial rental of medical devices and equipment is not an illegal act, so calls for the suspension of responsible persons have no legal basis. Financial and commercial rental of equipment has often been the only way out in recent years to obtain equipment and supplies that have provided quality management of health services, as we know that governments have been arbitrarily reducing funds from 2009 to 2014, both for depreciation costs and for healthcare prices. As I have said many times, health care has lost more than €400 million during this period. If healthcare providers did not hire certain equipment, health services would, of course, be inaccessible or even dangerous to patients and patients. Slovenia is one of those EU Member States that is expected to face one of the biggest increases in public spending related to ageing by 2060. Accordingly, the recommendations of the Council for individual countries addressed to Slovenia on the basis of EU conclusions included a recommendation on the reform of the health system in the context of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. The Commission has made clear the need and the requirement to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the expenditure of Slovenian healthcare on the basis of which changes and reform processes can be planned, and the Ministry of Health has also decided, on the basis of this recommendation and for the needs of structural reforms in the field of health, to do so but has expanded it. The extension to four activities with a common objective to improve the sustainability and effectiveness of the Slovenian healthcare system. This analysis included a review of the functioning of the system, a review of the expenditure of the healthcare system, a review of funding sources, a review of the payment system, and an additional review or optimization of health services. The Ministry of Health, as you know, has prepared this analysis with 60 experts, domestic and foreign, together with the Office of the World Health Organisation for Europe and the European Observatory for the Monitoring of Health Systems and Policies. This analysis has given us a clear, comprehensive, comprehensive review of our functioning of the health system, particularly with a focus on the review of expenditure, resources and accounting models. All these findings are also reflected in the strategic 10-year document, i.e. the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, referred to as the Common Health Society. As one of the priority objectives of the resolution, the Ministry of Health has also set itself an improvement in the management and management of all health institutions. It also sought to increase the responsibility and efficiency of healthcare management. Therefore, as you know, at the beginning of 2015, a special protocol on the selection of candidates for representatives of founders in sacred institutions was already adopted because we want in a transparent, transparent way to obtain candidates and qualified people. This year, we have been complementary to this protocol, or we have included some other shortcomings from practice, so this process will be even more efficient and better. As regards the financial functioning of public health institutions, it is likely to be further explained below. Let me say that all the austerity measures have been reflected in the fact that Slovenian hospitals have more than € 130 million unrecovered expenditure or surplus of revenue deficits from 2009 to 2014. While the first estimates in 2015 show that together they will be positive in a slightly smaller amount, key operators still have significant losses. Regarding waiting periods, much has already been said and will continue. We are developing a pilot project that will systematically regulate monitoring and management of waiting periods, so that none of the Slovenians will be deprived of or will be provided with the timely review or medical intervention they will need. At the same time, we will also introduce short-term measures to reduce the most problematic waiting periods by the end of this year. On the basis of the Strategy for the Management of Economic Crime, I should say that the Ministry of Health is very active in identifying, detecting corruption within its competences. This also led to several criminal charges. Let me mention here only the allegations related to the construction project of the Oncology Institute and the alleged crime of free transfer of land and damage to the General Hospital of Jesenica. On the basis of the Economic Crime Control Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the police are particularly concerned about the detection and investigation of crimes and their perpetrators in the field of corruption and economic crime. Therefore, the institutional duty of the police is a continuous and long-term guarantee of legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! The fact that we are certainly all aware of is that corruption in our country is a significant problem and is present. When news of corruption in health comes to the public, it is even more painful because it is an activity that everyone needs in life, and we simply expect more in public health, and we are all more sensitive to irregularities and deviations. On the one hand, we are talking about the lack of money for health care, a number of unpaid checks and operations, the liquidity problems of hospitals, waiting periods and at the same time corruption in health, which leads to hardship. However, there is no way to say that corruption in health is more present than in other areas in the country where more money is available, especially taxation, which is not a particular comfort, but a fact with which we cannot and cannot be satisfied. Corruption also occurs at multiple levels in health care as well as at individual levels, at individual levels, and at the system level. We meet with her in the procurement of medicines, medical materials and medical equipment, various construction works and investments, which have repeatedly shaken the Slovenian public in Slovenia alone. Consider, for example, the construction of oncology, including paediatric clinics, the acquisition of operating tables, some materials, and other information. It is all the more important, therefore, that it is precisely determined who is responsible for what kind of corruption, where the limit is between the individual's personal responsibility, the responsibility of public administrations and responsibility within a given institution, and where the responsibility of the State begins to try to prevent systemic corruption. Above all, the presence of corruption must not and cannot be a reason not to provide health care with the necessary money that we all need. Our government is also aware of the problem of corruption, so last year a renewed Anti-Corruption Programme 2015-2016 was adopted, with zero tolerance for corruption and the indication of individual measures, carriers and deadlines for the implementation of all these measures. The competence of individual institutions and bodies carried out in accordance with that programme has also been determined, the Public Procurement Act has been amended, a programme of centralisation and informationisation in public procurement in public health and other measures has been implemented. Nevertheless, we must also express our concern in our Group that many are probably too promising from the common procurement system. In our opinion, public procurement still represents the main corruption risks. However, the general public procurement may, irrespective of good intentions, cause a number of additional difficulties in obtaining the necessary medicines and medical equipment. As an important corruption risk, we also assess the vaguely established border between public and private health, particularly in terms of intertwining public and private and also in terms of irregularities in waiting species related to non-separation of public and private. Therefore, according to the assessment of our Group of Members, it is essential that public and private health care be made clear once and for all and arranged in an appropriate manner for each individual. The management of public institutions must be given adequate autonomy and at the same time ensure good supervision by competent supervisors. Measures in this direction shall be taken and implemented. However, appropriate standards for medical materials are also necessary, which are often unreasonably obtained. As we follow this topic, the question is also raised in our Group whether the occupation at the Ministry of Health as well as in other ministries is strong enough and professional enough to ensure proper supervision in the management of investments in health. Therefore, it would be worth considering a different way of managing these investments, not only in the field of health care but also in others. That corruption is a major problem in our country also proves, as a rule, the high ranking of the Republic of Slovenia on non-slaving scales that express the level of corruption in various countries. In the Desus Group, we believe that we must do what is necessary to change the legal basis, if necessary, in order to restore credibility to the Commission to prevent corruption, to grant it clear powers and powers that will help to more transparently adopt and publish the decisions of the Commission and its more important role in the proceedings. In order for things to start going this way, the Commission must first and foremost stop dealing with itself, but with what it was set up to do, that is to say, by preventing corruption at all levels and in all its emerging forms. Finally, let me explain the decision of the Desus Group that it did not support the proposal for recommendations in its consideration on the home working body. Of course, the reason is not in protecting anyone or in supporting corruption, but because we believe that the Government, the Ministry and the competent institutions have all the leverage necessary to prevent and detect corruption, all in accordance with their powers and powers. In addition, the Government has already adopted and prepared guidelines to combat corruption. However, we will closely follow their consistent implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, hello! Corruption in our country is not a new phenomenon. It has appeared for many years, it has a long beard that stretches through the period of all governments, ministries and all ministers. A public survey of the global barometer of corruption 2013 carried out by Transparency International shows that corruption in Slovenia is a major problem. 62 Slovenian respondents believe that corruption has even increased in recent years. In view of the general social climate, we doubt that public opinion on corruption has changed to this day or that today's debate will further strengthen this. We call on the Social Democrats to work together to find solutions that will result in changes and disruptions to existing practices that today prevent greater transparency in business relations. The existing system contains a lot of gray hair, which some use to carry out unethical and unfair business practices and even for crimes. Social Democrats argue that changes to the system are possible and necessary, in the light of the shared awareness that corruption is an unacceptable practice to which a strong attitude of zero tolerance must be taken and that this objective must also be pursued as a society as a whole. Both abroad and in Slovenia, people perceive the most corruption in the political space. This is also recognized by our government, which wants to deal effectively with corruption or the establishment of integrity. It is very worrying, however, that Slovenian respondents believe that the government's operation is dictated by strong stakeholders. A serious policy that actually wants to work for the good of people will do its utmost to reject such a view as wrong and prove that it is capable of transcending such practices. Although this government has already taken some serious steps. But it's true that we were just at the beginning of the journey. It also argues that the regulation of this area cannot be fully ensured only by the Government and the Ministry, and that the saints and the management of public institutions, which are autonomous according to their status, have a great responsibility. However, it cannot be said that there is no excuse for inaction and turning away, according to the system: we are not competent, we cannot do anything. We argue that the government can not only have political authority, but must also have moral authority. The government must formulate clear views on what is acceptable and unacceptable in society. And these views must undoubtedly be made clear to people as well. We believe that the existence of corruption in health is also facilitated by the blurred borders between public and private and unclear and uneven rules, so we need not only a change in this area, but a tectonic shift. The government can do that. This tectonic movement can only be made by politics together with the government. We stress that any form of corruption is unacceptable. In the case of health corruption, however, it must be so much more unacceptable, as it creates a system that directly affects the well-being and well-being of people. Health is the greatest human wealth. Social Democrats advocate public health. All residents must be able to meet their needs for quality and timely health care independently of their material situation. In our firm conviction, however, this can only be achieved by the public health system. Human health is gone and cannot be a market commodity where some create profits. Privatisation of the healthcare system and equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients. This means different quality of service provided, which depends on the patient’s social status and unequal accessibility, which is unacceptable in our view. We advocate an effective, high-quality, responsive and sustainable healthcare system for all who will be based on the tradition of solidarity, reciprocity, justice and will focus on the prevention and early detection of disease and on effective treatment. Such a health system is one of the foundations of the social state for us. People perceive corruption and are well aware of what this corruption means for their lives. Systemic corruption is also one of the main causes of the economic, financial and unfortunately moral crisis. There is, therefore, no undue warning that such unfair practices destroy the rule of law and the social state. Such practices prevent people from universal access to health services, allowing them the right to timely treatment. The outflow of money intended for health care directly endangers human life. This must be clearly said no, cut off this Gordy knot and eliminate these practices definitively, and call those involved to account. Social Democrats are therefore supporting any debate that helps to find solutions. The proposer may also be attached to the leader of the request for a reference to this meeting. But something is clear that without the common commitment of policy that optimizing the area of health is our common goal, there will be no move to be made. The weaknesses of our system that need correction are known, the analysis is done, now we must take the last step that is necessary. Renovation of existing legislation. Throwing pollen under the feet now does no good to anyone except those who are in the interest of decomposing the public health system, which would have disastrous consequences for people. For this reason, the Social Democrats clearly expect that the Ministry will, in accordance with the normative plan adopted, respect the deadlines set out and, even this year, send laws to the parliamentary procedure which will contain measures that will make operations, finance and treatment of patients more transparent, efficient and sustainable. In doing so, we will close down the premises for corrupt practices. We have to do this and we have to do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. We do not support the recommendations in the United Left. Of course, we are not against it because we would advocate corruption in one form or another, but we are against it because such flat-rate debates strengthen the belief that corruption is everywhere and that nothing can be done about it. We are aware that Mira Cerar's party won the elections with a password on morality and the fight against corruption, but now the campaign is over. I don't know what the candidates' intentions are, but I'm sure they won't improve their ratings with this meeting. Moreover, the public health system will be further discredited among citizens. The real effect of these discussions can only be the blocking of those measures that would significantly improve the Slovenian health system by cutting off the interests of commercial insurance companies and private doctors. Such discussions put pressure on the Government not to abolish supplementary health insurance, not to impose a competitive ban on public sector work and not to abolish unjustified concessions. We have several legitimate reasons for this conclusion. Commercial health insurance, concessions and complementary activities of doctors are, in addition to purchasing, the biggest risk factors for corruption in the healthcare system. Commercial insurance companies use our premiums among others as sponsorship funds that the management of medical organizations obviously do not want to cancel. It is certainly not a coincidence that under the proposals for the privatisation of compulsory insurance in addition to the Slovenian Insurance Association are also signed by the Medical Chamber and Fides. The Anti-Corruption Commission report confirmed that the greatest risk of corruption is in doctors performing complementary activities. These doctors can use their position in the public system to favour their self-paid patients. Many doctors also have concessions for their afternoon espa. Reports from the Court of Auditors show that concessions have been granted without clear criteria from the beginning of the privatisation of the healthcare system when the concession can be awarded. Therefore, mayors and ministers of health have full discretion in practice. It's hard to imagine better conditions for corruption than our concession system. However, the problem does not end with the granting, but continues because legal traffic in concessions is not legally restricted. Concessions can be sold, they can be borrowed, they may even be inherited in practice, because they are often not limited in time. There is certainly no legal obstacle that what I counted would not have happened. If the intention of the applicants were sincere, they would probably support the promised abolition of supplementary health insurance, and they would also support the draft Health Act, which introduces a competitive labour ban and restricts the award of concessions. But the proponents did the opposite. They reacted by discrediting public health and disrupting advanced reforms. The proponents cited some of the old corruption affairs to which I will then be defined below. These affairs had one common denominator — doctors were directly involved in each of them. It is always a doctor or a number of doctors allegedly bribed by a supplier, and doctors are expected to ensure that the public service purchases the equipment from this supplier. I will not take on the role of the courts, but the fact is that the doctor's situation today is such that the biggest corruption risk in doctors and management is. Doctors influence procurement decisions and suppliers have direct access to them. That's why I'm wondering where the Medical Room is. The essential function of the Medical Chamber is to take care of the ethics and deontology of its members. Corruption is not in line with Hippocrates' oath. But the management of our Medical Chamber is more concerned with ethics as to whether health insurance will be public or private and whether health care will be carried out in public institutions or in private companies. With this, the applicants have no problem, even more so, they translate the gainful interests of the part of the medical profession into a parliamentary procedure. So, I'm sorry, you're not a credible interlocutor for us to fight corruption. This position is confirmed by another circumstance, such as the cases of alleged corruption highlighted in the explanatory memorandum of the recommendations. Practically all the cases cited are old and range from 2008 to 2014, mostly between 2012 and 2013. These are therefore cases that took place during the first Janša government and at a time when the government was led by Mrs Bratušek, who was also signed under the request for an extraordinary meeting. Ms Bratušek was also Minister of Health until the elections, and all these alleged affairs were revealed by the media at the time, i.e. at the time when the applicants were sitting in governments that appointed the majority of the members of the holy institutions. If these newspaper articles and the 2012 Court of Auditors recommendations, which you presented in your explanation, prove what they prove, then they prove your incompetence and inability to fight corruption. In the United Left, we do not underestimate the problem of corruption in any area of life, but we must be aware that corruption is not a cause but a symptom. Corruption is a symptom of the organisational and financial crisis of the system. Our health sector has lost 17% and 400 million euros since 2009 only due to administrative price cuts. As a result, there is increasing reliance on donations and sponsorships, or various lease agreements, for the lending of equipment. This way suppliers get direct access to doctors and keep public institutions in check. Since our market is very small, monopolies are rapidly formed, and then corruption is not really necessary because entry costs for new suppliers are becoming too high. If we want to lower costs and reduce the risk of corruption, we need to stop contact between the doctor and the supplier. The latest analysis showed that the prices of medicinal products in Slovenia are relatively low, which is the result of centralised negotiations with the institution, i.e. without direct contact with doctors. Of course, there are still too many contacts between pharmaceutical companies and doctors, but it is particularly important that pharmaceutical companies should not have a look at how many of their medicines are prescribed by a particular doctor. All sponsorships and other funds should be collected in a centralised manner, and in particular it should be asked what is wrong with our taxation that pharmaceutical companies and suppliers of equipment, in the form of donations and corruption risks, are sending us something that they should actually get from them through our tax system. Above all, I would like to point out that the market and privatisation are not effective means to fight corruption. Privatisation only means that part of corruption or profits that are illegal in our country is legalized. Above all, it should be borne in mind that health corruption is a method of marketing medical equipment and medicines. The free market exists only in textbooks, in fact the market operator must do everything to ensure a competitive advantage and, of course, corruption is part of it. If a company has a monopoly, this actually means that it has no competition and that investing in corrupt methods is not worth it. In short, such debates do not prevent corruption in our health care, but are abused for political purposes. The political class has double criteria here – a lot of talk about corruption and inefficient public procurement in the health system, but it does not talk about missing purchases into the military system, for example. The vitals at the Clinical Center must have been overpaid, but they certainly saved lives. What, though, have we accomplished with the costly modernisation of the T-55 S tanks that have already been written off today, or with the purchase of the expensive Roland anti-aircraft system, which is already written down today, that I do not even begin to explain about Patricia? In these cases, why does the political class not mind that all transactions are carried out through intermediaries? When was the purchase of weapons and military equipment carried out without a reasonable suspicion of corruption? Corruption by definition constitutes an invasion of private interest in the public. The biggest problem is corruption in everyone's eyes, it's a legitimate private interest in our health care, it's legalised corruption. Complementary health insurance for the benefit of rich and commercial insurance companies. Profitable interests of private doctors or their unjustified concessions. Concomitant operation of doctors in both the public and the private sectors or the phenomenon of the physicians of amphibians. These recommendations serve only to shed light on these key health problems and to attack health as a public good of non-commercial goods. Of course not, because right-wing proponents are not interested in fighting corruption, but in stretching private acquisitions throughout health care. As it is said, however, it is precisely an intrusion of private interest into the public interest that we call corruption. We will not support the proposals in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Corruption in general, corruption in Slovenia is one big problem, is the problem. The problem is when people — left and right, red, black, blue, green, all colors — give their hands for profit, money and do not look at the rest of the country. But it hurts to have corruption in health care, in the health system, when the money that's originally meant to be used to treat people, in order to treat our children, is then blown away by someone at the expense of this money. That hurts. That hurts the most. As a result, corruption in Slovenian health care is one of the most vile ways of this system of ours, as we know it, and has become systemic. So widespread is corruption in health care that it has become generally acceptable that something normal is a normal way of doing business. This needs to be eradicated. Even because of these facts, I do not understand exactly why the proposals for recommendations on corruption were not adopted during the relevant period. On the one hand, we hear that corruption must be eradicated, that the recommendations were good, but therefore not worthy of support. Zero tolerance for corruption, any corruption that is unfortunately also growing in Slovenia because of the inefficiency of the judiciary, not only in the field of health, is the right answer. Scenes have already been seen in hospitals, doctors and wholesalers’ homes, health care providers with medicines and medical devices, all of which are without a proper epilogue. Nobody's responsible for corruption. No one in the health system who took advantage of public money is responding. The operating tables, the Oncology Institute, the Pediatric Clinic, the braces, if you like, the last affair. Who among these people who have been involved in these indiscretions is sitting today? Who was convicted? Nobody. Thus, the fact that crows do not simply turn off their eyes is increasingly confirmed. Doctors and medicines are needed sooner or later, and it is all the more unreasonable that corruption is somehow embedded in the health system itself, which, as has been said many times before, needs a thorough overhaul. We are aware that health care is not the only area susceptible to corruption, but in this area, like the judiciary, it does not yet seem to have experienced real catharsis or cleansing. The waiting species are increasing, and tax money is leaking into the private pockets of individuals who are sussed in a health nursery. With effective and regular supervision of the competent institutions throughout the health system chain, in particular in the execution of public procurement, the procurement of medicines, equipment, medical devices, there is still a lot of reserve. The Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission have much unfinished work in hospitals and other health institutions in this area. In Novi Slovenija, we have already provided the solution to the elimination of corruption in health care. We see the solution in the reorganisation of the health system itself, which will create competitiveness, effective control and sanction violators. We expect the Ministry of Health to propose such reform legislation that will establish such legal foundations within the health system, which will prevent corruption in the health system itself at systemic level. The motion for a resolution states Together for a society of health, but not a single word mentions that corruption in health, despite widespread awareness and its presence, will be tried in the next nine years. In Novi Slovenija, we do not want to renew all cases of corruption in this moment, but because of the slow trials and other proceedings they have remained halfway and the caravan is moving on. The health system, which is chronically financially nourished on the one hand, is also their large power supply because of a handful of such and different lobbyists and background uncles. In doing so, the distinguished Minister and other members of the coalition, in view of the latest public findings at the Commission's meeting on the involvement of corruption in the procurement of vein support, we really appeal to the reaction of the Director-General of the Clinical Centre, who has clearly acknowledged on this same committee that, through this procurement, he is paying or funding our foreigners. I believe that there is a need to finance the natives and help them as a country, but not in this way, through the purchase of medical devices. Respectable coalition, in relation to this problem, which has become acceptable, despite the fact that we are overpaying blood support three times, you must react immediately as long as this thing is still hot and so on. I also highlight the problem of staffing and the involvement of corruption in human resources policy alone. Reform legislation, which will bring more competitiveness into the public health system, would certainly contribute to its recovery. This also means that the money that flows into private pockets due to corruption will remain in the system, and this will reduce waiting periods and waiting periods, while doctors will be justly rewarded for their work and less subject to temptations of bribery or better paid jobs abroad. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, Christian Democrats will always support legislation that will contribute to greater transparency and institutional strengthening so that corruption in the country will be as little as possible. However, as far as health corruption is concerned, the real medicine is not a general public procurement. The real cure is a fundamental reform, for which, Madam Minister, I hope it will be immediate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. The group of unrelated Members has advocated this meeting, as we can see that there are many problems in health care. The Commissions and the committees dealing with the subject do not adopt any conclusions that would oblige institutions to improve the situation, so we considered it right to raise some problems. That's why we're going to be working hard to keep the darkness from dying and not hide under the rug. What do we want to protect? We want to protect those who are screaming at the whistle and alerting them to problems. These are mainly doctors, nurses and hospital staff who work hard, but they shed a bad light on the whole system because the system is not defined. We want clear answers, we want a clear picture of where we are, what is going on and what is going to happen in the future. I believe that at this time the time of lost opportunity is because such analyses, such as the analysis that the Ministry has praised, have already been made in the past, only from the drawer had to be drawn and continued. I guess it's a bit late. If we see that we are in a period of systemic corruption in health care, it is only right to point out what is most important to such corruption. Not so important are doctors, nurses, and other staff, but the system is the one that led to this. Systemic corruption is characterised by the fact that legislation corresponds to those dealing with the broadest form of corruption, namely employment, a rotating door, the impact of informal networks and trade in influence. That is what we are trying to draw attention to, so focus on this part of corruption. It's a responsibility that's been talked about a lot. First of all, of course, criminal. We have an NPU procedure that revealed some activities, but we're still waiting for an epilogue. But what we don't do is financial responsibility. Officials, such as us, Members, Mayors and others, are subject to a review of their assets. I believe that financial institutions, FURS and others are under-focused on those who serve in health care, and if such profits as are mentioned, then this is known in these persons. I think that the role of FURS should be more active – to discover this money and pick it up. Of course also the Court of Auditors and other financial institutions. Then there is political responsibility for those who allow such excesses to occur. If I concentrate a little bit more specifically on what's wrong and what's going on. In particular, public procurement, as has already been established, is about purchasing equipment, not to mention the procurement of medicines, there is also a phenomenon of counterfeiting, where Slovenians are also leading, which is not the subject of this meeting. For medicines, we mention what has happened more frequently in the past, saying that doctors have prescribed medicines and have therefore received a prize in the form of seminars in exotic countries around the world. We have somehow limited this through the Commission's preventive tasks to prevent corruption and other institutions as well. This phenomenon is now less and I expect the same to happen in the area of procurement of equipment and medicines, but not with the slow steps that we are witnessing to them now. It is necessary to define the work of doctors in a transparent way – what their primary work is and what else they can earn within their institution – that is, the amount of time and the like. It is necessary to arrange the entire system of mid-term nurses, to see what is going on at the level that we have 6 and at some point also 8 colleges for nurses, how money has been flowing here and what real education we have achieved and what achievements we have achieved in this area. Finally, the problem at the lowest level, namely the outsourcing of staff – the establishment of businesses, leisure work and other matters that burden the entire health system. In particular, it could highlight the problem of concessionaires, while the second problem is the division between basic and supplementary insurance and the unequal distribution of work between individual institutions and also between individual doctors or staff. These are exactly the problems that we have to solve, which we have warned about, but there are no systemic solutions. However, if we go to specific issues, the problems that have already been exposed today, as the biggest problem, I see the cardiovascular resistance itself. This matter is somehow not resolved, but it is only part, one small point of the whole system, systemic corruption in the supply of medical equipment and materials. Here is the key to corruption, and with this usually doctors have nothing and also some staff nothing. Here we should expose the people who serve with such supplies, which of course they know about in finance, so financial institutions could find out. Of course, there are exactly the same patterns that we have identified on other committees and commissions dealing with public finances, a bank hole and the like. All the same patterns as the detection and disclosure of a bank hole, the disappearance of money, they also appear in health care and exactly the same counselors advise both financiers and doctors, and they always serve one and those informal networks. Using equipment is another problem. How much equipment has been used, how much equipment has not been used, even though it has been purchased, and is now lying in the basement, or has it been borrowed through some leases and other contracts? Other problems also arise — the maintenance of this equipment, the donation of this equipment, and what is happening through societies. Then we have various donations, but in the form of different forms of corruption they return to their private pockets. In particular, we would point out that those who somehow control the overseers need to know more about what and what the work of criminal justice is. Here is the prosecutor dominus litis — the one who leads and directs the procedure. The medical procedures are somehow in place. A number of whistleblowers appear to indicate errors, both on the medical side and on the law enforcement side. It is right for these people to protect themselves and for law enforcement authorities to explain clearly where and at what stage these procedures are and if someone stops these procedures. For example, if I raise the problem of servicing medical equipment, which is a particular case to which it has been pointed out, even on the part of those who use the equipment. Then, of course, computer equipment. This is a particular sector in which there is a lot of money, which we have already pointed out, if we know that we are ahead of major acquisitions of information technology in the public sector, the creation of monopolies and large profits by maintaining this equipment. Finally, investments in health care. As we know, these investments are highly opaque, untransparently managed and untransparently controlled. Most of all, Urgenca is in Ljubljana. Here this control function does not work again and those who are supervisors do not respond with their assets. That is what we wanted to point out, and here we expect some clear answers — not what is going to happen, but what is happening and what are the solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u19	The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Dear Mr. President, distinguished Minister, Ministry team, welcome! Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! I must apologize to you in advance at this point for having to follow the rerun of Friday's session today. This rerun will last eight hours today. We won't hear anything new. Finally, we will talk about everything else in health care, not just corruption. We will listen to the criticisms of this ministry, the criticism of this government, what has not been done. Once again in this place, I repeat, this is again about the abuse of this National Assembly. Why? Let me explain. On Friday we discussed at the Health Committee's meeting the Proposal for a Recommendation on Systemic Corruption in Health. Systemic corruption in health care. Obviously, the proponents have not read the definition of what systemic corruption is. I cannot agree with you that we are talking about systemic corruption, because this means that this corruption would be completely in all areas of Slovenian health care and that without this corruption this system could not work at all. We all know that's not true, so your claims are already exaggerated at first. Next. We made it clear on the committee itself when we rejected your recommendation. We rejected it by reasoning that the points and measures you are proposing inside were first addressed to the wrong authorities. Certain things that should be referred to law enforcement authorities are addressed to the Ministry and the Government. The specific wishes or actions you are referring to the Ministry and the Government should be addressed to the administrations of health institutions. Even more disturbingly, at one point you even call on this government to act unconstitutionally. I am very surprised by my predecessor, colleague Dobovšek, who is a lawyer after education, – of course, he is full of words and a lecture on various matters and corruption – but at the same time he signs under something that is unconstitutional. What am I talking about? In your recommendations, you asked the Government to suspend immediately everyone working in the field of procurement in public health institutions. Without proven guilt, all on average, all those who work in the field of procurement and reverse. The fact that this call is insane and pointless is one thing. The fact that he is unconstitutional, which you should be worried about as Members, is another thing. Furthermore, the content of this site will not be spoken of. During the debate, we will explain again why we are against this recommendation. In doing so, I must point out that we do not deny that corruption in Slovenian health care is present, as is the case elsewhere. This government and this ministry have already taken quite a few measures to limit and reduce this corruption. Among other things, the minister herself referred to them earlier. In short, there will be no vote on this recommendation today, because we have made clear how we feel about this recommendation at the Committee's meeting on Friday, when we rejected this recommendation. In the debate, we will explain our arguments in substance for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Mr President, I think we are at the beginning of the meeting when we present the views of the groups of Members. What has now been done, this exercise by Comrade Zorman, was not the position of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre, but was a controversy with the proposer. Finally, we have even heard that he will give substantive reasons in the debate why they will not accept the recommendations. Therefore, I ask you to warn my colleague that when it comes to presenting the views of the groups of Members, he does not dispute with the proponents and teach us what we have done wrong, how we should do. Please. And also with Comrade Dobovsk, if you think he's a lawyer, how he should react. In our views, we represent the position of the Group of Members. And that, at the end of the day, a colleague would be allowed and would say that they would state the substantive reasons for the debate, that is an excess of his colleague Zorman's misgivings. President, my procedural proposal is to give a warning or a reminder because I don't think they have it on this side, so nothing will hurt them in that table. However, I think it is time for them to start to understand what the presentation of positions is and when the debate is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u23	First answer to the first procedure. As you may have noticed from my practice, I am very reluctant or never prejudiced to what the content of the views of the groups in question is, even when, for example, they are, on this or on the other hand, either offensive or do not fit into this context at all. What you've said is a sign of what just happened. I think that's more than enough for the record. Since I have never given any warning at this point — if it were really a hate speech or anything, then I would really be willing to go over it — I don’t think it deserves a reminder. But you warned me about that, and I think you've achieved what you wanted. Procedural proposals are usually not appropriate among the positions, as they are usually left to the end and, when the debate is on, we begin to argue with this. But I can agree with you on a substantive basis. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I have not disputed with you because you haven't even discussed it yet, as I have never debated it. I have stated the position of our Group of Members, and I have legitimately said that we will make more substantive arguments in the debate. And I wasn't talking about what we're supposed to do. I was talking about what you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Since I have already responded to this procedurally, this has been procedurally inappropriate, so, Comrade Zorman, I am giving you a reminder. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Since the beginning of this mandate, the Ministry of Health has been constantly reminding the Slovenian Democratic Party that a health reform needs to be prepared. We note the irregularities that are taking place in this area, the affairs and corruption. This is why we have referred to 12 extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee in our party in this mandate. In these extraordinary sessions, we wanted to draw the attention of the Ministry of Health and the general public to the burning content, but unfortunately we have never received their support from the coalition. At all meetings of the Health Committee, we also constantly point out that there is a need for health reform or for fundamental changes in the field of health legislation. In our view and also in the opinion of the profession, it is necessary to approach the establishment of a public network at all levels without delay, to set standards and standards for the payment of the basic scope of the work of doctors, to lay down standards for their remuneration, to set standards and standards for the payment of health programmes to operators, to enable competition, to reshape public institutions in accordance with EU law, to give the director of public institutions more powers and, of course, to do so more responsibility. Of course, there are also public orders and long waiting types. If we solve this area of health with only minor legislative changes and prepare analyses with the help of foreign experts, our citizens and also our doctors will not be satisfied with health services. Moreover, doctors will decide to go abroad, of course for better paid services, and patients will be treated abroad because they will be there sooner. We have also warned that the coalition has, in its coalition contract, under the measures of the Health Department, written: "Implementing zero tolerance for corruption in health care. Of all those who are responsible for the rise of corruption by their (non-)action, we will require personal responsibility." And where are these measures and responsibility now? No action, no change, no reform. Let's see what the ministry has done this year and a half. It prepared a regulation on emergency medical care services, three legislative changes and an analysis of the health system in Slovenia. These are the documents that we discussed at the National Health Committee and at the National Assembly. As I mention the analysis of the health system in Slovenia prepared for the Ministry by a foreign institution for which the Ministry or we taxpayers paid more than EUR 360 000, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this analysis has not produced any new results that our profession would not have previously pointed out. The introduction of the analysis prepared by a foreign institution shows that the Slovenian health system achieves good results and that we belong to the top of comparable countries in some indicators. Interestingly, however, the OECD survey shows different data. This study places us on the average or on the tail of comparable countries, of course, while we have not sent the OECD data on long waiting species at all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we already drew attention to systemic corruption in public procurement at the autumn extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee. We have warned that some hospitals that are waiting for patients are classified without proper order, it is said that there is disorder in this area. We have pointed out the suspicion of bribery and bribery, the suspicion that they were involved in public health care institutions, we have also pointed out examples of Neurological Clinic, Paediatric Surgery, Oncology Institute and so on. We have also proposed two conclusions at this autumn session, namely that the Ministry, when preparing health reforms, prepare comprehensive solutions to eliminate systemic corruption on the principle of zero tolerance and ensure that, in public health institutions of which the State is the founder, business is carried out in accordance with the principle of zero tolerance for corruption. Of course, the Coalition has not confirmed our proposals in the autumn period, despite the fact that it likes to refer to zero tolerance for corruption. The fact is, we are facing corruption within the entire system. Both companies and the state operate in a corrupt way.This is where we remember the statement of the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. That is also our intention in today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to draw attention to the suspicions of corruption, not to investigate and sanction. For research and sanctioning, of course, we have competent authorities in the country. It is a sad fact that no one responds to our warnings given at the meetings to media warnings and warnings. That the system does not work well or that something is wrong with the system and legislation also shows the fact that we still do not have the Director of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Director of UKC Ljubljana. As for the director of the Oncology Institute, we know what's going on. Last year we had an example of the appointment of the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana Baričič, who was elected by the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana at a public competition. Let us remember that for this candidate, the Minister has long insisted on being appointed director. Next, Zlata Štiblar Kisić, current director general of the Oncology Institute, was appointed and no one bothered that she had previously wrongly paid allowances. There is no doubt that there is still a need for change in the area of the transformation of public institutions, of course in accordance with EU law. As I have already said, directors of public institutions need to be given more powers and responsibilities. However, more responsibility must also be given to representatives in the councils of public institutions. Although in early 2015, the Ministry of Health adopted protocols on the selection of candidates for founders in the Council of Public Health Institutions. By adopting the protocol, they said at the Ministry, they pursued the aim of raising the knowledge and experience needed to perform the role of representatives of the founder in the world of the public institution. In view of all the events that are taking place at UKC Ljubljana, it would be difficult to say that these representatives are doing well despite the protocol adopted. At the extraordinary meeting of the Home Health Committee by Dr. Konrad Kuštrin in connection with the appointment of representatives of the Council of Public Institutions, we have heard that this is only one cosmetic approach to the selection of new members of the Council of the Institute, but that political affiliation still plays a major role. Political affiliation is also the one that puts the most responsible in the leading jobs, both managerial and lower, in other management jobs." Those were his words. If I stay a little longer with these protocols and quality systems. We all know last year's case at the Neurological Clinic in Ljubljana. What helps us if medical institutions have a quality system and information when they are visited by an administrative inspection when there is no epilogue. No one is responsible for the fact that the quality and information system did not work at UKC Ljubljana in the case of Neurological Clinic. This quality and information system provides for mandatory internal information, procedures, responsibilities and responsibilities in the event of extraordinary events. Then why does UKC Ljubljana pay such large sums for this system of quality and information to judges from abroad if we see that this system does not work within institutions? Even in the case of heart surgery, we've met with this. This case is still pending, and new complications are emerging. Even in the case of Bunz we can testify that the system within the UKC does not work well. The head of the cardiology department, Mrs Mirta Koželj, did not know that the data on their patients were being collected for the purpose of a specific register run by Bunčová društvo. So the chairman doesn't know what's going on in her department. However, that statement is even more bizarre, the President of the Commission for Medical Ethics stated that the application was prepared in accordance with the instructions and that the Clinical Department of Cardiology was listed as the carrier. Here's the question of who's moving in this case. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that in these cases it is an abuse of individuals, of course with the help of the State, and that at the moment also the protocols and information systems of some of our institutions do not work. In its opinion on today's meeting on the financial rental of medical devices and equipment, the Government also stated that this is not an unlawful act of the institutions and that the suspension of the responsible persons does not have a legal basis. In doing so, he disregards our warning that at UKC Ljubljana has entered into transactions or a reverse delivery contract with a person who is not a legal representative of UKC. This contract was concluded by that person a month before the purchase decision. Don't you find that strange? Nor does the Government comment in its opinion on our claim that in such cases, reverse suppliers of equipment serve greasyly by serving and consuming material. This means that in the long run for a hospital, renting a reverse is much more expensive than buying devices. The media has written a lot about the transfer of money through public institutions over the years to different suppliers and the pressure of influential individuals to purchase certain equipment and materials. The pressure is applied to doctors if they refuse to cooperate, they are resolved. However, if these influential individuals do not achieve theirs, they also go to the President of the State – we are also aware of this statement from the Commission's Public Finance Supervisory Meeting. We would also like to draw attention to, inter alia, the irregularities that are taking place in the area of public tendering. The irregularities that are taking place in this area are well known and in the sky. It is true that, by its decision of 5 March last year, the RS Government has fixed contracts for needles, diapers, gloves and catheters as common public contracts. The Ministry of Health, in its opinion on today's meeting, states that, because of the complexity of the procurement by content, volume and number of contracting entities and the fact that the common public procurements are implemented for the first time, they have encountered major obstacles and their implementation has therefore been carried over to 2016. All the Ministry has done at this time – from March 5th to this year – is to issue a decision on the establishment, composition and tasks of the expert commission for the common public procurement. This Commission has by 3 February 2016 prepared a proposal for technical specifications, which is only now being submitted for review. She had a ministry for a year. Thus, companies and individuals involved in all these suspicious transactions are still contracting entities and suppliers. Unfortunately, the most important consequence of these corrupt actions is the fact that the people who carry out these corrupt acts are protecting themselves and their friends in the network, and they are seriously obstructing the profession. And that's what we end up feeling in patients, that is, taxpayers. Everything that saves health right now is a profession that is very, very good. The profession belongs to the world summit itself in a wide range of areas. With today's session, as I have already said, we have focused on drawing attention in particular to the irregularities that are taking place with regard to the purchase of vascular resistors, the purchase of medical equipment on reverse, the exploitation of individuals in health care and the purchase of operating tables without public invitation to tender. In the debate, of course, we will also draw attention to a number of irregularities, which we are reminded of by both the profession and the media. In our request to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we proposed a recommendation in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the following proposals for conclusions: The National Assembly held a debate. The National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health investigate allegations of possible corruption in health on the basis of the words put forward. Director-General of UKC Ljubljana Brigitte Čokl at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on 3 February this year. The National Assembly calls on the Government and the Ministry to present to the National Assembly an analysis of the health effects of the joint public procurement measure envisaged for 2015. The National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry take all necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise procurement processes and services related to medical equipment, with a focus on expensive medical equipment. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government and institutions to suspend all persons involved in the procurement of medical devices and leasing equipment due to impartiality until the end of the investigation. The National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health invite the competent institutions to take immediate and decisive action to determine the responsibility of individuals in acts of corruption. Of course, the Coalition did not support those six decisions on the Health Committee of the Health Committee. The coalition considered that the problem was multifaceted and that the problem of health corruption in political treatments occurs cyclically when a debate begins on how much money health really needs. It is also about creating illusions that by eliminating corruption, we can offer people what we promise, namely public health and broad access to services. It is the coalition's view of misleading people. That's what the committee's report says. As I have already said, the purpose of our call for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the subject of systemic corruption in health care is to highlight, in particular, the irregularities, affairs and corruption committed by the system within the country and within health care. We would also like to point out to the Government, the competent ministry, the Court of Auditors, the competent inspectorates, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the law enforcement authorities and the judiciary that the areas of systemic corruption in the field of health should nevertheless be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Which one's first? [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Then I give my word to the proposer first, mag. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. In the views of the parliamentary groups, we have heard that tectonic movements are needed – a colleague from SD. Corruption is absolutely unacceptable or even more unacceptable in health care – SMC, Desus and ultimately the United Left. But the result of all this? Nothing. The caravan's moving on. Mr. Zorman has given us a statement of unconstitutionality. On the Health Committee, we have called on them to jointly draw concrete conclusions that we would all agree to adopt and let everyone know clearly that what is happening in health needs to be done. No, words, words, words, and then you have to vote against it. From the words, unfortunately, in our country, nothing will be better. 533 days, Your Honor, since you've been sitting on Stefan 5. The result is an analysis of the health situation. And yes, dear colleagues, yes, I myself have been responsible for the field of health, 156 days as the Minister or Minister of Health and 547 days as the President of the Government. Have we done enough? I can say no. We had bigger goals, we had bigger ambitions, and we did something. Much of the time I was Prime Minister of the Government was Minister of Health, Mr Gantar, part of your coalition, and in the second part, the Ministry of Health with me was headed by a State Secretary, who is still sitting at the Ministry today. Well, I'm happy about that, but you're obviously assessing that she's done more than well in the previous government. But so that I don't brag about it, I'm going to list some concrete things that have been done. We have strengthened the primary level of health care, and I think we have earmarked some less than €9 million for this. We've made a general procurement order for drugs, saved 12 million euros. We've set up a field of forensic psychiatry. In the area of eHealth, we have successfully taken over two information solutions that will allow better quality and, we can say, even faster, processes in health care. The eRecept project was ready for the final phase, in fact you just had to implement it. If we look at the investments, we signed contracts for all 10 emergency centres and, yes, the distinguished minister, demanded that the equipment be uniform for all and thus absolutely. We found 22 million euros for a big problem, that's DTS, we provided 11 million euros for hematology, and we finished the project. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, during a negative economic activity, but not today at 3% of economic growth. We have also begun to engage in the field of corruption in health care, unfortunately we have little to do with those who should, but we have therefore asked you to step forward together and show these people, who are still serving unjustifiably in health, that we are not for this. No, you'd rather deal with the undersignors now as to who's responsible. Let's find those responsible, find them together, and let's let the money that's in health stay with the patients. I absolutely agree with everyone that this money that we would or would find if we resisted corruption in health care is not enough. It is not enough that the situation in our health care will be as it should be. But here again, unfortunately, we who are in opposition cannot do much. When we adopted the budget, we warned you, we tabled amendments, but nothing. Nothing. At 3% of economic growth. I hope you are aware that this is more than Slovenia will record in the next few years. Soon there will be no more time for Slovenia to record 7% and 6% of economic growth. With 3% of economic growth, you have failed to provide additional resources for health care. And now you're telling us that we want to draw attention to the shortcomings that are happening. It is unacceptable to pay 1300 euros for the same thing in Slovenia and 460 euros for the other European country. Is that so hard to understand, dear colleagues and colleagues? Is it so hard to understand and make it end? The Director-General of UKC shall make public at the meeting the name and surname of the person who is to serve in a corrupt manner at the University Clinical Centre. But nothing. The next day he apologizes and the matter is over for you. By the way, Professor Kožev was already mentioned. She wrote me an e-mail saying that she also knew about Bunc's affair with the director of the Clinical Center on the board that I wouldn't use the word "lie." Decepted. But no one's hurt, no one's hurt. You spit because we called the meeting, that we too were responsible for not reacting when we could. Look back what was done, look back what was done in the past. But for 533 days now you've been the one responsible for this area, and the result is one big nothing. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u29	A representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Our health situation is just like my health today. When I have a medical point, I'm always sick, and I think our health care is very sick. The most interesting thing today in the National Assembly is that SMC speaks differently than Desus and SD. I don't know what's going on inside, but it doesn't matter, because the representative of Desus, Mr Gantar, also told the board the same things and I have to say that he's in a lot of trouble with him. I agree. It is about corruption that is being carried over several governments and that this is a major problem, and that the increase in recent years has also been noticeable. I think it's probably not done enough in the past to make these things so widespread now. The SD representative said that it was necessary to go beyond the established practice, that the cross must finally be made and that people or citizens should be told what is acceptable and what is not acceptable in society, and that citizens must know, and the Government must inform them. He says that human health can't be a market treasure for private people. I fully agree with all these statements. Now the question is how far this Government is willing to produce these things. How ready is she to go beyond the usual practice? On the Health Committee, we have heard that corruption is that nothing can be done and the recommendations will not be accepted because they are unconstitutional. This is said by a party who has taken quite a number of unconstitutional decisions in this National Assembly – but I will not remind you of that, if you do not know, and if anyone asks because he does not remember, I will be half of it later. As far as matters need to be settled legally and more decisively by the Government, I wonder how. If you are looking at the priorities or priorities for 2016, which are recorded in the field of health in the documents Achievements 2015 and 2016 priorities by individual ministries issued by the Office of the Government of Communication in February 2016, you have the 22nd priority in 2016. According to an analysis of the health system in Slovenia, there will be a novelty, i.e. a change to the Health and Health Insurance Act due to poor funding and management. Then: a new – concept of the operation of emergency medical care services, tobacco products – changes in the field of tobacco products and related matters, and a novelty of the Health Act – to the new regulated tendering and distribution and control of concessions. In today's debates, and for the last time – or rather, in the debates on the parent committee – we have heard that these concessions are not exactly the main problem, although the representative of the United Left says that the biggest problem is the amphibians that work in the public and then in the private sector and are somehow serving on this account also with suppliers. See, the cardiologist Dr. Marko Night, who you consider to be one of such amphibians who works in the public and then in the private sector, was the one who warned about the high prices of the ventricles, and because he was a member of the invitation to tender for the purchase of the ventricles, he had major problems with his work due to lowering these prices after 2013 and 2014. So do not throw away all amphibians to take advantage of one way or another. However, you have some who work at the hospital and at the same time with the supplier of medical equipment. Then, in the debate or presentation of views, it was said that a common commitment was needed to work together against systemic corruption in health care. I also agree with this, and already on Friday's parental committee, I said that we don't want to lynch anyone, we don't send anyone to jail, but we want, also by the coalition, to find a way together, including the legal bases and proposals that would change this systemic corruption, these actions that have occurred in the past, which no one on the committee has denied. And this was in the government of Janša, in the Bratuška government, in any government. But no, in such accusations made by the SMC spokesman for the speakers, it is difficult to accept the hand offered by the other parties to the coalition, which I think would probably be willing to cooperate and we have also called on the committee to make recommendations together. No, no, no. Then you're talking about cooperation. The treatment at the expense of taxpayers, patients to serve some, we have already discussed this evidence on the committee. Now, see, Dr. Bojana Žvan's doctor – I can call it because it is also a recording, a magnetogram – which, for example, talked about the launch of the TeleKap project, said that she noted the irregularities that have occurred in this project in the purchase of the necessary materials and other services, where she has been modelled on "on the Bavarian network of TeleKap, where 20 hospitals have been involved and where she has already had decades or 15 years of experience. These software suppliers for Tempis in Bavaria offered 20 000 euro software for the whole of Slovenia, translated into a 12-year-old Slovenian language. The Ministry has decided to go to a development project where I have been very helpful. Today it has turned out that this development is already costing an additional 200 000 euros with certain upgrades and that the project is still highly vulnerable." I think you have also read in various professional literature that Dr. Zvanova is one of the first ones to think and introduce the TeleKap project. If you look at the Supervisor, how much was spent on the TeleKap project – only what is specifically written – it is already around 100,000 euros from 2014 to today. Interestingly, it was also mentioned that the common invitation to tender was not something that would severely restrict or allow corruption to occur. We have also talked about the fact that there have been many times when certain tenderers were exclusive, that they were the only tenderers. Now it's interesting. The company deals with agriculture, radiology, laboratory diagnostics and widespread consumption. If I define agriculture for you, they sell tractors, combines, connectors, used equipment and have service to these matters. Then they have radiology, lab diagnostics, I don't think there's any need to explain it. Then they have a wide consumption of cosmetics. This company is the only provider and the most competent for the services of computer networks and the only videoconferencing provider at the Ministry of Health. Such a company has therefore received a job as the only provider to the Ministry of Health in the field of videoconference. Now you tell me how a company dealing with agriculture and cosmetics can be the only provider for videoconferences at the Ministry of Health. I was already talking to the board about the ventricles. I have before me the answers to the questions of the procurement services in our largest hospitals. When a colleague said that human health could not be marketable goods for private use, it is clear from the data provided by the purchasing services that UKC Ljubljana could improve its negotiating policy for the purchase of vascular support abroad, which could save about EUR 3 million. From January 2012 to September 2013, they paid 4 million 250 for the purchase of vascular restraints, but if they purchased directly abroad or had a foreign supplier, they would have paid around 937 thousand euros at the price calculations in force on the European market. The same applies, of course, to UKC Maribor and to Celje Hospital. The most interesting thing is that Mark Medical, d.o.o. the sale of the same vascular resistance in 2012 in UKC Ljubljana after 977 euros and in UKC Maribor for a thousand 388 euros. The question here is, what do hospitals do, what do public institutions do? Don't they talk to each other? Why is there no single price on our market? Why are prices so high if we know that the same vascular cords are paid for abroad much less, up to 300 and up to a few euros, and we have such high prices? This was pointed out by the Director of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who explained how medical equipment is being sold in Slovenia and, among other things, described the most corrupt case. "And the case, which is in fact the most painful and where such or different foundations are created for the growth of corruption, is, of course, the following, and this case is in some ways the most famous, we all know it best. The global producer, committed to European legislation, of course still sells thousands at a price, but has an intermediary based in one of the Western European countries, Italy, you have already said something about this, Austria, Germany and so on. This broker buys this equipment at the price of a thousand because it's the price of the manufacturer. However, since the broker is established abroad, he sells the same equipment to an official representative who is established in Slovenia and sells it at a price of EUR 999. This official, however, sold the same equipment to the Slovenian hospital for a price of 2 000. So a fund of €999 is being created for an intermediary based in Western Europe, which is used to donate to hospitals in Slovenia for the purpose of covering the costs of attending doctors at congresses, to finance the costs of several professional congresses, to train doctors, to pay for many unnecessary medical research, to instruct doctors – thanks for the effort and the like." So is the head of the KPK. We also discussed this case at a meeting of the Health Committee, i.e. the case that points to it, and, of course, no one on the Committee denied anything. This foreign, foreign intermediary we were talking about is KB1909, who then sells it to Slovenian official representative Mark Medical, and then sells it to Slovenian hospitals. We're referring to it as an example, but we could probably find more of these cases. The evidence for this is on the foreign company website, but you also had it in the material itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, given all the words spoken, we would expect the coalition to oppose the committee, adopt recommendations, possibly in a modified form, and together we will take a stand against systemic corruption in health. I'm afraid that didn't happen. There was also no willingness to amend the conclusions. Today, we are basically listening to what needs to be done. The question is, therefore, when will we be so united in Parliament that we will take joint decisions in this area and help the Ministry and the Government to reduce systemic corruption in the health sector, which is engulfing the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Ludmila Novak and Mr. Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am aware that corruption is one of the cancers of the wounds of our society, and I am joining all those who would do whatever it takes to achieve the zero point of corruption. However, my debate will not be looking back or analysing corruption, but from now on. Health is a value that we care about more or less for all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why it is even more painful because people are sensitive when the news of health corruption comes to the public because it is an activity that everyone will need once in a lifetime. It must be said, however, that corruption in health is nothing more than in any field in Slovenia. We are trying to achieve zero tolerance for corruption, but it is likely that we will not be able to eradicate it. In health care, a lot of money is being converted to basic purchases, let alone medical supplies, appliances, medicines, equipment, and so on. In various investments, mainly construction: oncology, Paediatric clinic, procurement of the operating table and so on. It is necessary to determine, even if legislation needs to be amended, who is responsible at the level of the State – as a ministry, at the level of public institutions – management, leadership. Sovereign control must also be determined and personal responsibility must be strictly determined. But it is a condition for this, in my view, to establish good relations. I can't imagine a good and successful team if people don't understand each other. Of course, the problem is payment, for top-notch and also for all other activities or services in health care. Continuous education and the possibility of using modern technology, modern devices and other modern medical equipment is needed. It's the only way the doctors will stay at work without looking for extra work this afternoon. This would shorten the waiting types and increase the time and kindness that patients receive. The Coalition Treaty binds us to measures in the field of health care and health insurance and accessibility for all people, all citizens and citizens, to quality and effective health care. We need to distinguish between public and private measures in the field of health care. However, joint procurements are the biggest risk area for the development of corruption. It is necessary to lay down criteria for accepted public health networks at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels, to regulate the award of concessions, to accelerate the provision of care and palliative care. The management of public health institutions, business, supervision and increased responsibility of directors and boards of institutions and of course personal responsibility must be redefined, the responsibility of the Health Chamber redefined and everything done for zero tolerance towards corruption should be redefined. However, I am pleased that much of the above has already happened and will continue to be achieved in the light of the analysis of the health system, which has led to the conclusions reached by the Resolution on the National Health Programme 2016-2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mr. Franz Lai and Mrs. Erika Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u34	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! When I read these recommendations prepared by the proponents, I found that we are not actually demanding anything that could not be implemented or that you, the coalition Members, would not take. In view of all your promises that you will work to fight corruption, for honesty, for transparency and so on, I expect you to support these recommendations, whether you are in the opposition or coalition MPs. Finally, this is what the citizens who have given us their vote require of us. This is what health workers expect. Of course, not those who are directly involved or who may have soiled their hands. So most people expect us to do it. Therefore, I think it makes sense for us to act as Members of Parliament in a responsible manner and to support these recommendations in establishing investigations to ensure that those who have so far carried out these orders are withdrawn. You don't have to fire them. Of course, that would be normal. Unfortunately, in other cases too, we find that those who were once involved in unusual transactions are again placed in positions of responsibility, rather than clarifying their role in the past. I'm sorry. If you don't want to do this, I don't know who you want to protect. In the words spoken by UKC Director-General Mrs Brigita Čokl, all alarms should actually be sounded. I'm asking if the Ministry did something. Did that turn anyone in? Since Mrs Brigita Čokl is not an ignorant woman, in the past she was Secretary of State at the Office for Slovenia at the Ministry of Health. It must be determined whether she holds to what she has said, or I think she will have to answer for her words, because I am also reading protests from foreigners who are appalled by her words, so it is all the more necessary to clear these things up. When we talk about professional Slovenians and how some people go from institution to institution and demand money, we have put all our people here in a negative light in place to fight for the preservation of Slovenian language, Slovenian culture and identity, unfortunately. Therefore, this needs to be clarified as soon as possible so that those who are not indebted and blameless will not be in a bad light. That is why I expect, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, that you will support the recommendations, and I expect answers from the Ministry whether you have done anything in this direction already. Here, too, we have a colleague of Mr Gantar, who has also resigned from the position of minister because he has found that there are too many serious things in the background. If we want this to be investigated, we will support this, helping the ministry detect or eliminate corruption. In addition, of course, the entire Slovenian society, which, however, expects us to pursue honesty and responsibility at all levels.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Prepare Mrs Erika Deklava and Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I see the well-respected minister is not in the hall. That's too bad. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We all agree that systemic corruption exists and is very rich, and it is also obvious that it is a very hard nut for our society and stretches like the yoke of a snake that is in no way entraped, and it poisons our society very effectively. This is also evident from today's meeting, according to all the information that comes from these public institutions, not to mention further. Who has the benefit of that? The patient definitely doesn't. Nor is that honest medical staff who put forth very great superhuman efforts to save a life. Do we agree that we are on the right track? I don't think so. I expect all the competent authorities, despite the fact that no recommendations will be adopted at today's meeting, to bow down, to carry out their task and to justify their existence and, last but not least, to earn. By no means can we say that we are without any systemic, legal basis in order to resist corruption. That is why we can rightly ask ourselves how corruption is produced so strongly. Because corrupt people are in places where they can do it well. We have KPK, we have the Court of Auditors, we have law enforcement. What does all this mean when a crime is suspected and then the whole thing stops and there is no epilogue? I see a lot of problems here. If things don't get too close here, then we can have any reforms, systemic solutions and changes, and none of this will happen because these people will be able to adapt very quickly to the new system situation. What, then, is another additional solution that can still be implemented in existing systems? I certainly see that public institutions have their own leadership and supervisory authorities, so it is imperative that personal, material and criminal responsibility be exercised so that they feel that they can also be punished in this way. If we succeed here, we will absolutely benefit the patients very much, as we see what is happening, waiting times are increasing. Then there are problems in obtaining the necessary medicines, effective medicines, suitable medicines. Since public institutions or hospitals lack money — there could be a cover for the entire business process — there is a delay in payments and a large corruption knot is reopened here. You are most likely aware of what is currently happening – very good investments are promised in buying back claims on these public institutions or public institutions. We can only imagine how much the profits of suppliers are then, which then still sell their claims after a high discount. Once again, I call on all those who can contribute in any way to doing their job, and I also call on those who think that legislation needs to be changed, we, the legislative authority, are the right address and we expect their initiatives and demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all colleagues, colleagues and, of course, to you too! Let's start a little bit, let's at least remember why we're here today, what we're even discussing, because so far a lot of things have been said, every bit, but I think it's still necessary to say that today's proposal is a recommendation on systemic corruption in health. Who is the proposer of the meeting? The rapporteurs are SDS Members and a group of Unaffiliated Members, namely Franc Laj, Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Alenka Bratušek and Bojan Dobovšek. If we ignore this somewhat unusual connection, I am surprised that you have not prepared yourself better for such a reference or topic. Why do I say that? You're talking about systemic corruption in health. What is systemic corruption and when we can talk about it, you could at least be taught by Comrade Dobovšek, if you are not alone. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 1. 2014 – this was the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek – Dobovšek said in an interview: "We are talking about systemic corruption when politics and the economy are linked and strategies are put in place to control the entire sector. There were no supervisory mechanisms in Slovenia: supervisory councils, various supervisory institutions, offices and agencies at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, including the Court of Auditors and others should play their part. The whole law of public procurement is to blame, and we should have arranged this decades ago. And we're not. The only ones who can solve this now are the police and the D.A. If it were settled when it was time, the police and the D.A. wouldn't be busy right now." This was a description of the situation at the time of Alenka Bratusek. So much for what Alenka Bratusek did during her government against corruption. So if we're talking about systemic corruption, we're talking about corruption in the country in all of its segments. Then we cannot only talk about corruption in health and on the cross, but it must be fair to say that it is a very complex phenomenon with an economic, social and political dimension, which cannot be resolved from today to tomorrow, but if we are honest, this cannot be resolved even in 533 days, as said by my colleague Bratušek. But it's not about crying and it's not about putting responsibility on the past governments. The fact is, there is not a single universal solution to such a problem, nor is there a magic wand that we can swing and then there is no corruption. If it were that simple, of course, Alice Bratusek would have done it within 547 days or almost 18 months. She didn't take care of it. During her term of office, however, she said that the problems that had accumulated for 20 years could not be rectified within one year. Of course, it can be expected of others. If this is not so simple, the recommendations made by the applicants also speak, since they do not contain any concrete proposal that would also be realistic. With this label of recommendation, which deals practically only with some individual cases in health care, I think we are also doing very much injustice to all who work in health fair, conscientious and, if you want, economically, and these in Slovenia are great. By no means can we say that everything is nice and right in Slovenia, and by no means can we say this about health care. There is absolutely always room for us to change something, to do something better, to make things right, but, as we say, there is no solution on the part of the proponents of proposals and solutions. There's a lot of criticism, there's a bunch of imposed cases and, of course, unsubstantiated readings. They are particularly difficult to listen to by former Prime Minister and even Minister of Health Alenka Bratušek. Historic contribution to the health of her colleague Bratušek was a three-week trip by Mrs Trop Skaza instead of a minister. It's hard, but it's really hard for a person like that to set a mirror for others. When I read a little of the articles related to corruption and health care, I found, for example, an article entitled "Health corruption – damage to €448 thousand, criminals investigated the design of public procurement." Or another address: "Health corruption – criminals at 58 addresses per Slovenia, caused damage for a million 180 000 euros." All these addresses were written during the government of Alenka Bratušek. And what did she do? What was the meeting at that time, a debate in the National Assembly? How many laws have been amended? It is good to recall what Alenka Bratušek, the Prime Minister of the Ministry of Health, succeeded in achieving. She achieved that the good minister had escaped and resigned because he wisely assessed that there was no political will for necessary changes in health care. I read that Alenka Bratušek even demanded that the Law on Medicinal Products was written on the skin and for the benefit of the pharmacy, that she should never have been involved in coalition coordination regarding health institutions, because health care was not a priority for her. However, as Minister of Health, the entire ministry did not go beyond the threshold of the ministry. She did not offer any political support to her minister in order to do her job properly. The SDS then assessed it as very unrealistic, and today you are writing recommendations together. I really don't know who's being tied up here right now. Yeah, it's hard to talk like that. It's hard. In fact, at first I wanted to avoid criticism or backdrops. Never get rid of it. But all these facts make it really hard to avoid. All that was said would be funny if it weren't so sad. Since my colleague Bratušek is very fond of quoting the Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Cerar, let us see another quote from her when Minister of Health Alenka Trop Skaza resigned. She said, "I regret the resignation of Alenka Trop Skaza. At the same time, I understand her resignation, because in our policy. But more and more in the media and in society as a whole, we are becoming very impatient, and when people want to change things for the better, we drop the limits of accounting from day to day. Alenka Trop Skaza has become the target of daily attacks, although she has not taken or signed any contested decision." Interestingly, above all, it is very comparable with today’s day and our minister who wants to change things for the better, and from day to day only the signs and references of the various meetings, which he responds to, of course, to which he must prepare, are wasting time and energy when he should do something more important. Of course, the question is offered on its own: Is that not the purpose? Now, don't catch me saying that the debate on corruption doesn't matter. Perhaps you have all read the article in Del under the heading “Spend everything in order, where the author of this article – under which I can also sign myself – notes that today’s extraordinary meeting of Parliament to improve people’s health and general satisfaction will not contribute anything. Eight hours of TV broadcasting will be used to promote and demagogy to improve health care without additional money. We will not eradicate corruption, nor will we eradicate systemic corruption. We will talk about everything in a small way and define ourselves to recommendations that are materially unnecessary or not within the power of the government or the ministry or even unconstitutional. There is no need to remind the SDS that SMC has already taken counter-constitutional decisions. This does not mean that because we have done something wrong, we do it further. We learn from mistakes. Doctors within the system need to warn about corruption, only they know how and where this is happening. People have to start pointing out mistakes so we can start following the money. This sentence is not my invention, of course, but it is a quote from the esteemed colleague Dobovška, so it is even more strange and unclear why it is signed under such references to meetings. Let me finish this slowly. The problems are absolutely, corruption in health is unfortunately, both in Slovenia and in other countries. Of course, this is not an excuse and there is no reason to just accept and move on, that is of course a reason to do and do everything possible to reduce it as much as possible. For this reason, we must let the Ministry and the Government work, of course, to give critical attention to errors, perhaps to accepted timelines, while working constructively and cooperating with proposals. Of course, it will also have to be acknowledged that the salvations of every human being or, if you want, each government sees with its own eyes. With the majority of the elections won by this government, she will, of course, try to make the decisions in her own way. This does not mean that the proposals of the profession or other stakeholders are not important, but we cannot agree to blackmail and conditionality. And I'm going to give you another case that's not going to touch any political party. If the president of the Fides trade union offers concrete changes and not all of them are accepted immediately, he declares that cooperation with the minister is not possible. Or put the Ministry on hold for a month, so that if it doesn't happen what it wants, it threatens you with a sentence. It's called ultimatum. This is not cooperation, this is not constructive, but above all this is not a way for quality and good change. And unfortunately, today's session won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the proposer, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, your trip to politics will be over soon with this attitude towards problems. I want the results of your work to be better than our results. Unlike you, I will continue to fight, to sign and to do everything possible to end corruption in this country. First, I hope that it will end. But all the other performances say much more about you than they do about me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u42	Thank you. As far as corruption is concerned by doctors, I agree with the colleague of the Girl. But I think we were both on a committee where Dr. Robid talked about a culture of fear. About a culture of fear that reigns in Slovenian health care. Doctors do not hope to do so. The doctor’s statement from the previous meeting of the Committee – talking about the Neurological Clinic – is this: Anomalies that do not improve, do not improve, or are today afraid to say anything at the Clinical Center because they are afraid of sanctions. This is not the freedom to report the deviations that Dr. Robid is talking about, that everyone should be happy to say something that is wrong to correct the system, because those workers who want to do so do not feel safe. You must be completely safe, completely free to report the deviation. In this case, however, the occurrence of deviations in the Clinical Center is sanctioned! Now you're going to say what the Ministry of Health has to do with this? The Ministry of Health, I repeat – I do not know how many times, if not more than a hundred times – is the founder of the Ljubljana Clinical Center. It has six out of eleven representatives in the public service world. It may also be the supervisory authority of the public institutions established by it. If the National Assembly recommends to the Ministry and the Government that something should be done in the field of public institutions where such anomalies are taking place, there is nothing wrong with it. Some of you describe that if we pressure the Ministry and the Government that the government can't do anything, the Ministry can't do anything, the Minister herself says that the UKC is autonomous, that it can't interfere. I don't know what the government's six representatives do in the department's world if they don't respond to that kind of thing? The Ministry is the one who needs to call or alert the members of the board of the institution about what's going on. Otherwise, it can be in such a public institution that has not had a director with full powers for several years, complete chaos and even worse if we do not get a competent director in UKC Ljubljana. So the Ministry has all the levers and all the possibilities for such things when a doctor reports a rejection when he reports irregularities in reverses when he reports other things. The UKC management is not responding, and this ministry knows because this has been made public. Then there's something really wrong with the Ministry not to react, so say what you want. The Ministry would have to react to such things, if this is happening in a public institution whose founder is the State, so that this culture of fear does not grow so far that doctors remain silent that doctors do not hope, they do not want to talk to the nurses, that is, the professional staff, they do not want to talk, because what happened to them can happen to Bojana Zvan, who has been suspended from her post as head of the Neurological Clinic. That's, I can read the tape again, her statement, and you've probably all heard of it. Anyone who reports is reporting in the sense that things are improving in the system. Every application can be checked out. Our inspectors, our ministries report every anonymity. But those who aren't anonymous, nobody reacts. Nobody. That's why doctors don't say anything. It's rare when they talk. Those who speak happen to what happened to Dr. Zvan and Dr. Night. Now you're putting your head in the sand if the Ministry can't do anything. Yes, you can. If not otherwise, it can protect these doctors who warn of these systemic errors. Indirectly, if he can't do it directly. Don't say it's not true. If it were my will, it could have been done.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. We're being prepared by Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian public health system is one of the entities most trusted by citizens and citizens of this country, which they value most and to which they express an extremely high level of concern and attention, which this system is consequently being given. This is also why the Slovenian public health system is something that this country also provides a significant share of its public resources. About EUR 900 per citizen is allocated to this system, about a quarter of which is for the purchase of medicines, compared to the average of EU Member States, but when we look at the shift of income-comparable countries, it is a matter of finding that in Slovenia we finance the health system sufficiently, provided that this health system is fully operational. Just because our health system is so important in the eyes and lives of citizens and citizens, today's session cannot be taken very easily. The issue of systemic corruption or any corruption in the public health system cannot be resolved with our left hand, but at the same time we must not treat it flatly, through generalisation and through attempts to create emergency situations. On the one hand, it is not helpful that, for example, the Commission's meetings to oversee public finances raise problems that are also inherent in our public health system and then spend almost a month trying to eliminate the impression that such statements have been made that certain problems have been highlighted. I don't think that's right. I therefore consider that, compared to, for example, yesterday's meeting, which we had almost two o'clock in the morning, this meeting today is significantly more relevant and important, and that there is no significant harm if we pay more attention to it and if, at the end of the day, we are able to talk honestly and openly about it, but above all, we are not removing it by letters that report that it is possible to draw attention to the possibility of widespread corruption in the public system. I am therefore surprised, in some ways, that the proposer of his proposals has also set up, not as individual conclusions, individual proposals, but as a comprehensive act. I am assessing that some of the proposals made in the request to convene this meeting are good and meaningful, but I cannot possibly accept that, due to possible warnings and facts that have not yet been proved, we are today proposing suspension of the activities of all people, all purchases and all processes in the Slovenian health system. I cannot accept that, in order to draw attention to the need to solve corruption, we are somehow causing additional chaos in the health system. Therefore, it is necessary to find some consensus here in some way, and here I assess that the Ministry of Health, which has been in a difficult situation, has taken the right steps in recent times. If the Ministry of Health did not have a sincere desire and desire to root out corruption and poor governance in the health system, then today the Minister would probably not have heard that a protocol had been drawn up regulating the appointment of state representatives to public institutions, that it had been found that this protocol was not optimal and that it would be amended in accordance with these findings in order to ensure that the State would have responsible, capable and, in particular, non-political and not only interested representatives in the councils of public institutions. This is a good step and should be highlighted as such. At the same time, it must also be said that only the Ministry of Health, of course, cannot solve this segment of the presence of corruption in the public health system. At one point, of course, we will also have to raise the question whether our legislation, which regulates the issue of the property of unknown origin or of illegally acquired property, is effective enough to ensure that the prosecution is effective enough. That's a serious question. With all the stories that bind to the public health system and are linked to corruption that happens, regardless of period or government – whether Janševa, Pahorjeva, Cerarjevo, from Mrs Bratušek – we can find out that each time these affairs and stories cloud confidence in the public health system, they weaken it, they do not benefit him, and, above all, that they do not end up with some serious epilogue, that we repeat the question of how to prosecute corruption, and at the same time in truth the answer to it in some way, we have not yet been able to find and give. In view of the fact that we are spending 2 billion for this health system, as I have already said in the first place, given the income of the analogue country in the neighbourhood, we will, of course, have to take the issue of corruption extremely seriously. The debate that we have had so far in this assembly also shows that the opposition at the same time is aware of the exceptional importance of the supervisory function that the National Assembly has in that the coalition, the Ministry of Health and other government departments have already taken a number of extremely important steps to eradicate the interest corruption that also has the signs of systemic corruption in our health care, that, of course, as a Parliament, we will have to demand increased efficiency in the pursuit of this phenomenon, which is extremely harmful to the Slovenian health system and at the end of the day, without delay, actually harmful to public health of people. Every cent that is lost at the expense of corruption not only in the health system, but also elsewhere, directly threatens the quality of the service that this public system provides to its citizens and citizens. I am therefore, in some way, sorry that I cannot support those proposals of the proposer that I think make sense, because, on the other hand, they are unbalanced by the disproportionate measure of trying to suspend everything and everyone that works in any way in the field of public procurement in the healthcare system. This seems unnecessary to me to generalise, and the effectiveness of persecuting corruption in the public system will not help. Today, however, we must make it clear that sweeping under carpets, withdrawing statements and not clearing up what has been said will not lead to anything but that the corresponding sum of money allocated to the public system will still be spent there — with awareness or even consciously — for a smaller impact than that which citizens and citizens would have to receive for the taxpayer's money from this system. I think it is useful to repeatedly evaluate measures and proposals to address such an important situation as the issue of the presence of corruption in Slovenian health care. In fact, I am also looking forward to the next extraordinary meeting on this subject, which will soon come, because in some ways I believe that the Government will then be able to show the next steps to increase the efficiency of persecution and to increase the effective use of public funds, thereby increasing the quality within the public health system in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. On behalf of the leadership, I apologize for not predicting you. Get Miha Kordish ready. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. It would be very good if after two hours we could get to the point and start talking about what corruption is, where it comes from, how it came from, why it came from, where there are opportunities, where are the systemic errors that lead to corruption. These are the issues that we should be discussing today. But I'm very sorry that some of you are saying that this is a meaningless session, that corruption is, but it's not that important. My colleagues, my colleague spoke to me about two billion health budgets. As we know, it is at the expense of capitalism and the development of Western civilization that people are living longer today. We are living longer because science, too, has made remarkable progress in this environment, where progress has been possible. We live longer because new operations have also occurred in the healthcare system, new discoveries. For the past ten years, we have targeted medicines, biological drugs and everything else that at least makes life easier for many chronic patients. There is a whole series of diagnostic latest appliances costing millions of euros, costing millions of euros to maintain them. So there's a whole series of new drugs that are costing, of course, therapy, the worst for chronic patients, which is carried out to the death of the earth, and can cost several thousand euros per person. So there is some kind of shift in science and even in health care, but of course there is a greater investment in health care. It allows a whole series of solutions for a patient and, of course, it costs. I think that we are all trying to ensure that everyone in the country that has constitutionally provided for this to be a social state, regardless of their status. Slovenia has the opportunity for Slovenian patients or those chronic patients to receive in essence almost the best medicines in the world, despite, say, having some low social status. The problem of corruption, which then arises in the budget, which is 2 billion, does not, of course, originate from today and does not come to Slovenia by establishing a Slovenian state. The system of this corruption was constantly present, it was present in a country that was totalitarian, where individuals had monopolistic positions and where it led the full purchase and supply of various devices, health and everything else, parallel to the economy. This parallel part of the economy, which Mr Niko Kavčič spoke about more than 20 years ago, is the one that settled or put on pedestal corruption in health care. This corruption has always been present, the problem was that it was not written about it, as it was about total corruption, i.e. the "smuggling" of cigarettes and everything else. This part of the parallel economy was then transferred to several individuals by the break-up of this country, by the abolition of Yugoslavia and by the establishment of new countries in this area. In Slovenia we have some people who have gathered this. The common network of these people, which has taken over the wholesale suppliers, on the other hand the construction sector and the banking sector on the third side, has a common point, and this common point is called the State Security Service. Today, when we began to open at all, the first letter is a letter from the lawyer company Ferfolja, Ljubič, Bauk – Dino Bauk. This is Dino Bauk, who was proposed by the United Left as a great constitutional expert to take the mandate of colleague Janez Janša. This is Dino Bauk, who promoted those great protests that were very violent, with which the other Janša government also fell. And this is Dino Bajuk, who gave the wrong explanation of the Law on Members and therefore was somehow returned to Mr Janez Janša. In this letter, he threatens to be a lawyer, in particular to warn that the lawyer of KB1909, i.e. the Gorica company associated with the newspaper company Mladina, and to point out that on Novi24TV, which is supposed to belong to our client, someone has even allowed himself to write about the fact that Mark Medical and others indicate some possibility of some corruption and that it is unacceptable. At the end of us, Members, he warns – that he does not again know the Constitution – that all of the above clearly shows that persistent repetition of the facts and deception is intended primarily to damage the reputation and good name of the newspaper company Mladina – the company of shares, the weekly Mladina and so on. It also reminds me of the civil action, me as a Member, if I discuss anything on the subject of Youth, KB1909, from which also the ownership of Youth and the complete entanglement of all this. I thank Mr. Bauk for bringing this up. I must admit that, as a Democrat, it is precisely because of such letters, I am even more pleased to look under my fingertips and to examine more fully the system-wide corruption that I have somehow made my way. Why am I talking today? As you know, I've been looking into a few things. Finally, the postgraduate study I'm conducting is going this way. I've been waiting a long time for this Master's degree, but it's this very story of this half-lived history with the former State Security Service that is personally restricting the normal functioning of this country. Now let's see why I'm saying this. Yuri the Child, who I will talk about on several occasions and I think that such meetings will be something, is not only important because he was in the supervisory board of KB1909 and later in the NLB supervisory board and the President of the management board of the Vienna branch of NLB, but also for two reasons. For the first time since the Child is also in the supervisory council of Petanov DZS, this is the Petanov DZS, which is being rescued by a bad bank, which has received over 100 million moratoriums on loans at 1% interest rate during this time, at a time when Mrs Bratuškov's colleague had to hire expensive loans abroad to save Slovenian banks. While we issued bonds between 6% and 7%, the DZS received 1% of the moratoriums and in that moratorium of one year's default on its credit liabilities one percent interest rate. This Mr. Baby is only important to me from one point of view. There's always a nuance problem. The nuance of the famous documentary by Radiotelevision Slovenia about Mr Nik Kavčič and the parallel part of the economy is shown by Mr Nik Kavčič in one scene on one armchair. There's a whole bunch of big maps behind the chair, files. The biggest folder behind his back was from Mr Milan Kučan and the second large folder from Mr Juri Baby. Mr Yuri Children was a member of the State Security Service. That's interesting. His file says he's the father. I'm talking about this network. I'm talking about this network that never shut down its operation. If Mr Yuri Baby hears, he can sue me, I predict, and give him the opportunity to meet in court, and he can prove that what I say does not hold. The interesting thing about this is that it's irrelevant, the next story is that we might end up with a middle of this essence. This law firm is saying not to talk about Youth. This is the Youth led by Mr Repovš, who mostly spits at capital, at the economy and says that everything is neoliberalism. First, we need to look at its composition, where this company is somehow being financed. The largest institutional owner of Mladina is Transmedia with 13% and Distriest with 57.3%, and the owner of Transmedia is the subsidiary of the Goriska banka KB1909. It is interesting that the other great owner of Mladina Vega Finanz s.a. is a mysterious Luxembourg company when "with the departure of Zavrla and his Falcone story with tax havens for Youth has not yet ended. This is kind of embarrassing for these journalists and I feel sorry for them, because they struggle every day against the draining of capital into tax havens and tax frauds." So, a company from Luxembourg, I can say a mailbox from Luxembourg, which is co-owner of Youth, which is Vega Finanz. Why is that important? That's why it's important because it's intertwined. On the one hand, Mladina is intertwined, some KB1909 company is intertwined, the person Jurij Detiček is intertwined, the NLB is co-financed and recapitalised by these companies. So we have a circle of companies and these companies, which are mostly monopolistic suppliers of different medical devices. A colleague who spoke before me spoke about the case of Dr. Mark Noč from the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. Let me point out that on 9 November 2015 in Finance Mr. Night said that he saved millions of dollars with the stentis, now he gets it on his back. "The night before, he revealed to the Finances that things in the UKCL had deteriorated significantly this year or after he had decisively contributed to the drastic decline in the prices of the ventricles and shuddered into the profits of the medical-supply lobby. Cardiologist Marko Night on World UKCL: This is my professional murder!" He's even talking about his professional murder, he's talking about doing fewer of those surgeries now, he's somehow being pulled away from this job and so on. Then we have the Finances again, reporting that Goriška KB1909 is to withdraw from the financial intermediation. They re-emphasize the retired NLB resident Yuri Detička, again mentioning Mark Medical and so on. They reiterate that in the publishing press, Goricans are owned by Mladina and the food sector is represented by the trader Kava Cogeco. That they received 8.6 million recapitalisations and so on, this is again reported by the Finances. Next, as reported by Finance 23. 11. 2013, as millions drain out of hospitals, one of the major articles in Finance. It talks again about comparing stents, vascular resistors, talking about comparison of vascular resistors of xience, prices in Slovenia range between €615 and €977. The offer of Polish suppliers is €410; the offer of the German supplier of the same support with the same quality is €400. It compares the whole range of these stents and, of course, the prices, which are two, three or four times lower. He talks again about businesses, connections and so on. All I want to say today is that these articles are full of these links. Remember last year, one of those shows is, I think he made a POP TV too. Cameras are recorded in front of the University Clinical Centre and in the background of this video goes Janez Zemlarič with a business bag from the University Clinical Centre after meeting with Mr. Vrhunce. He's not leaving the center as a patient, but he's leaving a meeting. These are the stories of the Slovenian health system. Exactly this Mr. Zemlerič, who wrote in his party file that he was a member of Hitler, that he had never participated in a national liberation fight. This Mr Janez Zemlarič, of whom Austrian historians Mr Elste and Mr Wadl wrote that he was responsible for 15 bombings in Austria between 1975 and 1979 when he was Head of the State Security Service. This Mr Janez Zemlarič, who signed the document that the liquidator of Nikica Martinović deserves the 30,000 marks at the time and against which the criminal proceedings are pending in the court and the prosecutor's office in Celovac. This is the story that we will discuss today and in the coming days and weeks. We will discuss what Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian patients, how many really get nurses who work every day to save lives, how many Slovenian doctors are getting, who are working first for their studies, which are sometimes giving up their private lives, who are losing their own health, who are fighting for Slovenian patients. As far as we get this lobby, this udbomafi bond, this udbomafi part, which took over this business after the breakup of the former Yugoslavia and leads them forward, and how much money is actually flowing in the patient's sphere, their problems, how much money and how much money is going to support those newly sophisticated electronic devices in health care that are needed. How much money is it really about so-called health construction, which is also one of the important factors in this area? This is a very rough oris in the first part of my reporting, as far as the subject of health corruption is concerned. Today we are talking only about corruption in health care. As long as I am here as long as I am, I will also present corruption through state companies, Telekom, Petrol and so on. You'll see these stories are the same. Just as Yugoslavia has fallen apart, so these former members, with their network, never interrupted, prepared, stepped down, and somehow took over the parallel part of this economy, which Mr Niko Kavčič was talking about. It is now up to you, whether at this time, when you are Members, you will really act in the interests of honesty or you will be part of some strong impulse that will be the people we warn about, these doctors, the people who are rebellious, who are not dependent I personally do not depend on politics and with politics I can conclude tomorrow. [[…]] I think that as long as the situation in Slovenian politics is so that people will read things in advance, until they are interested in why hundreds of millions of people leave the country to some tax havens, then, dear colleagues, I don't understand you. I don't understand whether you're so naive, whether you're working for these people, or whether these companies are also funding political parties and preparing elections. As we see, part of these media are financed, part of the media is financed from this dirty money and therefore misleads Slovenian citizens and citizens so that they cannot normally decide at each elections. I think it's over because the money's gonna run out. Even those who are aware of this will run out of money. The whole world tells us that we have too much government spending. The consumption of the Slovenian budget is too high. The rationalization we're talking about is one of those here today. The topic of corruption in health care isn't from yesterday, it won't be from tomorrow, but it's always been. It's important how and how we start looking at her under our fingertips, how we're going to stop her. I waited a year and a half for the new secretary. I must say, one big disappointment, somehow she gave up in fate. It's better to leave things alone. These people have contact with law enforcement agencies, they have contact with many media outlets and so on. In Slovenia, it is worth more to act in a hard drive than to step out of this hard drive and to warn, to prove. And that's what I'm gonna do. I'll do it as a Member. Because I believe that the philosophy of a man who is sane at the end of that time of our earthly death is always the same: Who was I, what did I do, what did I do good for my fellowmen when I had this opportunity, and whether I turned out then. Dear colleagues, such threats from law firms, when I mention corruption in health care, are an additional energy for me to work even better. I think that as well as additional energy for my colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as far as we are concerned, we stick together, let us not let go. We will prove that corruption in health is a real systemic problem and that this problem is one of those that has had a very bad influence and may have interrupted a number of lives that could be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Really? We started corruption in health care, but now I've heard ten minutes about the SDV, the Udbomafi, I don't know what conspiracy theories that control Slovenian society. I mean, it's really intellectual downhill that you reduce all complex social processes to conspiracy theory, and we know that in this national council, only one party is capable of doing this. The problem we face is not related to some mystical networks, it is not related to individual psychology, but it is simply the fact that in every large system that supplies equipment on the market, there is a high risk of corruption. For each market provider is trying to "improve" its business with all possible measures and is trying to gain a competitive advantage in every way possible, which is why it often goes beyond illegal leverage, illegal and corrupt practices. In our health care, the situation is even more specific because these corrupt practices are partly legalised in the form of sponsorships, in the form of donations, in the form of funding seminars and so on, and mainly through direct contacts between suppliers on the one hand and doctors or managers on the other. Otherwise, for the scope of this problem, you can look at the example of the United States of America, where they have the greatest private health care, and then you will see what is really big corruption. This can only be exceeded by the fact that public institutions have enough money to be independent of the donations of such and other companies that they attempt to attract with these finances and equipment, so that public health institutions will then decide to purchase from these suppliers, that they are not of the highest quality not being of the most favourable quality. This also prevents the direct impact of the providers on doctors. If we are serious about fighting against all forms of preconceived corruption in health care, we need to cut through this direct link to the providers' doctors. In Slovenia we have some areas from which we can draw examples of good practices. For example, an analysis of the health system reveals that the cost of medicines is moderate. About prices and use, this is crucial here, is negotiated by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, not by individual public institutions, not by individual hospitals and not by individual doctors. Such centralisation, of course, eliminates many of these corruption risks. But the problem remains. We have examples of good practices in specific areas, but we have yet another set of different areas where corruption is rich and this problem of corruption persists. In this session, however, the problem is that it will not eliminate such corruption, and such corruption will not, nor will it be, for a very simple reason, because it is a completely ineffective form of fighting and acting against corruption. Let me draw you a historical analogy. At the time of the Yugoslav Paradise, the fight against all kinds of bureaucracy has always been an official line, and yet no government has ever been able to fight red tape like that, and no leadership has reduced the power of this same bureaucracy. The same is true in the National Assembly and in the case of health corruption. All the regime's political parties, especially Mira Cerar's party, see corruption everywhere, the state authorities also seem completely powerless everywhere, explaining corruption exactly all the problems we face. But there are no results from all this moralization and from all this observation of widespread corruption everywhere and from the inefficiency of state authorities. We have this government now for a year and a half, something like that, there are no results in the fight against corruption. In the event that this meeting is convened, the situation is identical. If we look at the material, this material contains nothing but recycling of some old affairs. Four cases have been highlighted and all cases stem from the period 2008 to 2014, mostly even from 2012 to 2013, it is said that from the time of the second Janša government and the government of Alenka Bratušek. It is these people who are signatories to today's Health Corruption Summit. If today’s proponents had a real purpose and knowledge, they could have taken action at the time and today to recycle old cases. Come in. The proponent writes: "No matter whether we are talking about lobbying, individuals or associations, there are increasingly clear and unequivocal indicators that public money has been flowing through hospitals and various suppliers in private pockets for years." This is a typical case of ineffective anti-corruption campaigns. Empty phrases, naked flossules. The same methods are used by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar. Miro Cerar is also constantly referring to networks that exhaust state-owned companies, and Mira Cerar is constantly talking about people who have been rich at the expense of citizens, and now "kobajagi" are afraid of his SMC. However, when we directly confront the President of the Government with questions from the Member States and call for him to reveal the names of specific people and individuals, he is citing a third instance, whether he is competent for SDH or any other institution. The President of the Government himself, who is so keen against corruption and against the networks that run this country, is washing his hands. The proposer of today's meeting presented several articles and a 2012 report, and now he juggles and dribbles as a big explanation of corruption. This is, of course, an empty game, a naked farce. I have been following Slovenian Parliamentarianism for too long to see the pattern in these health-care sessions. We are constantly witnessing the bombing of affairs, everything with the ultimate goal of discrediting public health in general. What is implicit about today’s session that the proposer offers us? If public health is poor, then the alternative is clear – private health. That is precisely the purpose of today's session. That is precisely what the proposal for today's meeting wants to achieve. All the affairs referred to in the reference to this meeting shall include the direct involvement of doctors. Why, then, do not the applicants require responsibility from the Medical Chamber? However, it is a serious violation of medical ethics. The answer here is politically fairly simple once you go a little closer to looking. Because today’s proponents, together with the Medical Chamber, are opposed to all the weights, to all the whims and to all four of them, resist the separation of the public from the private, resist the regulation of the issue of concessions, resist the abolition of supplementary health insurance, and instead divert their attention to accounting with Slovenian public health. This is now quite a welcome part of organised attacks on public health in the interest of commercial insurance companies, certain doctors of concessionaires and private interests or private operators in general. This has been a pattern throughout the year and a half since this call of the National Assembly, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam after public health, all on behalf of private interests and benefits in the health system. In doing so, the right-wing tribune specialized so much that Nova Slovenije, for example, took over the interests of commercial insurance companies and this spuro fura in the National Assembly. If we go to see the NSI reform, it is a recycling of the proposals of the Medical Chamber and Fides, which is based on research financed by the Insurance Association of Slovenia in addition to these institutions, insurance lobby, if that is what you want to call it. If we look at the recommendations on the standards of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance last year, we will discover the same agenda behind there, showing that public health insurance does not work and that health services should directly purchase insurance companies. If this were to take place in the Slovenian healthcare system, then we would really see what corruption means. The SDS represents the second wing of this black coalition of attacks on public health, which also takes over the interests of concessionaires. Here we have recommendations from the SDS on the Health Act to introduce a competitive ban on work and restrict concessions. These are all positive gains for Slovenian public health, but no, of course the SDS went on to attack them. However, general attacks on the public health system through the use of emergency medical care, through medical standards and so on are present here. The common denominator of this division of work between the two right parties in the National Assembly is that it is always the views of the leadership of Fides and the Medical Chamber. This is something that I cannot agree to, something that should be or should be pointed out in this National Assembly, if any of the people who are watching us live on television today are still so naive that they do not understand what is going on here. Corruption by definition constitutes a breach of private interest in the public interest. The biggest problem in our health care is exactly the kind of corruption that happens to everyone. It is corruption, which is legalized, legalized private interest in our health care. And we know where he is. We know about the complementary health insurance that works for the interests of rich and commercial insurance companies, we know about the profit interests of private doctors or their unjustifiable concessions, and we know about the co-operation of doctors in the public sector and the private sector or the so-called phenomenon of amphibians. If we look at very concrete concessions, waiting types in Slovenian health are increasing, while the scope of concessions is increasing. The more concessions we have, the worse the situation in the Slovenian public health system. Where's the worst? In the field of dental care. Where's the most concession? In the field of dental care. Here the public health system is legally poor in order to service private interests. This is, by definition, legalised corruption. It is very similar with commercial health insurance companies, which are significantly more inefficient than public health insurance, intercepting poor half billion euro of resources that could strengthen the Slovenian health system and then channeling it into high operating costs for such and other sponsorships. In an interview, the Minister also pointed out that she had actually distributed an abnormally large number of vignettes with all her profits, while the Slovenian public health sector, which would need this money bloodyly, paid off. A commercial insurance company, however, gives its profits for vignettes. It's totally unacceptable. These are the real legalised problem corruption practices that form part of the Slovenian public health system. Today's session and this recommendation, which is before us on the table, serve exclusively to address these key problems in our health care and the attack on health as a public, non-commercial good. This is, of course, totally understandable from the point of view of the proposer, because he is not interested in fighting corruption, but is interested in stretching private acquisitions across Slovenian health care. As it is said, it is precisely an intrusion of private interest into the public interest that we call corruption. Everything I've just described, the right-wing tribunal does openly and does openly in cooperation with Fides, with the chamber, with commercial insurance companies, with Amcham and so on. The problem is that the parties of the government coalition are doing much the same, only more quietly. They have a minister who has clearly committed herself to some advanced reforms and progressive measures and is blocked by her own government coalition, both in concessions and in a competitive ban as well as in supplementary health insurance. That's a real problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u50	When Mr. Miha Kordish speaks, one must smile. Such a boisterous imagination you have, Comrade Kordish, is incredible. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, then let's put the facts on the table. Please prove with numbers and documents that the right-wing tribunal undermines public health care, that it cooperates with the Medical Chamber, Fides with a hand in hand, and I do not know what. Documents with all supported evidence, because such a discussion with you is anyway infertile, because you are the smartest of these 90 Members in this national assembly. The Right Tribune has some black plans in the health department, a coalition or SMC is blocking its minister to do anything and so on. You're as smart as you are on the roads. You asked me why we didn't warn the doctor's office. In our recommendation, see what the final decision states: May the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia alert or invite all competent institutions to take action in this area. I think the Ministry of Health knows what these institutions are, but you can probably write them some more. You were not on the Health Committee, you did not participate in three recommendations, you did not give an opinion. No, it's not. It's your imaginative imagination that the right-wing tribune undermines public health. I'm your big imagination. Who undermines public health? Those who take advantage in public health care at the expense of taxpayers who charge large fees, donations, as you said. I agree that there should be so much money in health care that there will be no need for donations. I'm talking about public health. I wonder if a private person negotiates as much as he negotiates in public health at such prices. Does a private person buy at the same high prices as in public health care? No, because it's hard to negotiate for those prices. I think that one of the previous meetings was answered from that side there, from that tribune, the left, how the concessionaire must work. This is your active imagination, Mr. Kordish, that the right side is undermining public health. Today, as a proponent, I have publicly said that public health must be quality and without corruption. In public health, he's poor at the expense of his private pockets. Find out what's going on! No, I'm not saying why not. Because you do not now hope to expose yourself to that work, those private pockets that take advantage of public health, which take advantage of the contributions paid by taxpayers when overpaid material that should go to patients. You do not question yourself ethically and morally, as the central tribunal naturally wonders whether ethical and moral exploitation is in health care. No, you're asking yourself something completely different. Your imagination is poor in public health. Your statements, which allow you to support private pockets from public health, are financed from public money. That's what you support. And now you're telling us how we are against this systemic corruption being eliminated. You, Mr Kordish, in your own words, support that public money, the money of taxpayers from the public health system, flows into private companies, domestic and foreign. This lush imagination of yours, how NSI has something, SDS something, is just your vivid imagination. Put the evidence on the table. Put the evidence on the table, which is why we undermine public health. With what? Those who advocate that public money, taxpayers' money, would not go into private pockets through this systemic corruption, through overpayments of certain materials in health care, would not undermine public health. You get it. You who protect it. If you had anything to do with this systemic corruption coming closer to zero tolerances, as they say, then you would have been on the Health Committee, then you would have been involved in the preparation of these recommendations, then you would have made your proposals on the recommendations, and you would probably have something to agree on or follow your suggestions, without problem if you were looking for public health. No, you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Kordish, I can't give you the word for the replica, but I know procedurally that you won't abuse it, so please save your arguments for when the voice is divided, because I believe the time will be left. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Tatjana Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Health corruption, how long we've been talking about it, but it looks like it suits someone, that we're just talking about things in this Slovenia, and we're not doing anything. Do we all remember the affair when the equipment supplier had to report his own pharmacists and certain doctors, including the Clinical Center — I think it was 2012 — because he was unable to pay bribes or put something in their pocket? Do we all remember? So this was a clear signal given by the supplier that there is something wrong with our health system that there is corruption. What steps have we taken? None. To expect what I have heard here today, that doctors themselves will eliminate corruption, they are in charge of suppressing it – please. Which crow would turn off the crow's eyes? It's an old river. None. They'll cut themselves? There is no solution here, so we all need to be aware of this and to seek systemic solutions to prevent corruption in health care. One of them is, I'm sure, also the multifunctionality of individual doctors. That's what's going on. The financial interests of individuals and groups go so far that some individuals have so many functions, they are multi-functioners, wondering whether their day is longer than mine. Mine is 24 hours long, but they are fixed to such widths, in such functions that it would be normal to calculate that their day is 36 hours long. Such individuals sit on several chairs. Among other things, they are advisors to the Minister, including the heads or directors of the Neurological Clinic and have a private contract with the Slovenian-transplant. They're experts, and in fact their day is 36 hours long. It seems to me that for starters it is only necessary to look at who sits in the organs of Slovenia-transplant and clearly see where only one million per year goes. Only one million through Slovenia-transplant. Perhaps for someone neglectful, but things can be clearly checked – I think more or less are also made publicly available on the website – who is all involved in this million. I expected a response from the Ministry to the emergency administrative supervision of the UKC and the Neurological Clinic, approved by the Ministry at the beginning of 2015, which showed a very large list of irregularities in several areas, including severe irregularities with public money. This report was 204 pages long. The Ministry has issued a decision to remedy the irregularity, but it is important that it has issued a decision and there was no name, although it knows exactly who the individual irregularity refers to. It's poorly done. Or is it made for purpose, just to say that something has to be done there. But who's in charge? Therefore, corruption cannot be eliminated in Slovenia because there is no responsibility. If these irregularities were given a name and a surname, I am sure that this could be verified and that this could be resolved quickly. I can say here that only one doctor is being punished, and he's in custody right now. But there are, I am sure, financial interests of UKC and, as we have heard, the area of reverses and expensive equipment. For us who may visit a special doctor or a UKC once or twice a year, it is unclear what is happening in the background. But we can still read about it, even the statements of a nurse who witnessed how she unlocked people in this neurology department and so on, and nothing happens. I think all citizens depend on our health system, which is very creaky. He should look at it and correct it where it needs to be fixed. It has to be repaired on several levels. Here I can also add a child's heart surgery, which I think is the most in these last days, where strange things are happening, where even unemployed surgeon Katarina Golc reminds me of the irregularities that are happening there, where interests are both UKC and individuals, that money is being poured into Slovenia and that money is being poured abroad. What's the saddest thing about this whole thing? That the fates of such corrupt acts are children and their parents. This seems to me to be such a red alarm that should solve things within a week, for fourteen days, but not to put things off. As long as I've seen this in the media two days ago, it seems to me that this number is so high on the subject of the safety of Slovenian citizens and various deaths in the last few years, but no one moves. Your parents go in front of the cameras, tell their story, but you know what it's like in this country, they say that if you spend fourteen days of a public attack, then you're on a horse and no one can take you away. I think it is necessary for Slovenia to make major changes to the health system. And I'd like some answers. It seems to me that because of all the mistakes, the Ministry has ordered extraordinary legal supervision. The mismanagement was found, as I said, on 204 pages. The decision contains 60 corrective measures, including ensuring that the UKC ensures reporting in the event of dangerous events. Exceptional supervision was carried out by the accreditation company DNV and in October 2015 ordered UKC to abolish at least 20 major deviations from the standards, which does not constitute a successful accreditation published by UKC in June 2015. As I've already said, the responsibility has not been established. I'd like because there's no minister, some answers at least from the secretary of state. How does the UKC ensure that it actually respects the decision of exceptional administrative control? What material evidence does the Ministry of Health have for this and how does the implementation control it? Why do not the supervisory authorities of the Ministry of Health respond to all the legitimate applications? Are they expecting reports of dead patients? Things are serious in Slovenian health care. I'm asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready. Here you go, Mrs. Cink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At a meeting of the mother's working body, i.e. the Health Committee we had last week, the issue of corruption in Slovenian health was highlighted in several respects. Corruption is certainly a problem that needs to be discussed and, above all, it is a solution that we have all agreed on. I don't want to tell anyone that he had a chance in the past to solve the problem of corruption, but he didn't, because that would sound like political accounting. However, the fact is that it is not a problem from yesterday or today, because corruption in general is much longer. Mildly put, most likely, since the operation of the public sphere has been overwhelmed by market logic. Media contributions on corruption are huge for us, especially in the area of health care. We have a Commission to prevent corruption, which, in view of what we have heard at the meeting of the Committee from Mr Stefanac, is obviously working daily on the above-mentioned cases of alleged health corruption, not to mention all police investigations and judicial proceedings, which we can also follow in the media. However, there is a general problem with us, as we have heard from the predecessors, that epilogues of this story are often not received at all. All of this suggests that there is obviously a problem somewhere else. It is said that the problem is not only the problem of corruption but also the problem of ineffective prevention of corruption or detection and appropriate sanctioning. As I have already said, this problem not only arises in the area of health, but also much broader, in the area of operation of the whole country. As government material suggests that changes have also been made in this area, i.e. in the area of investigation, detection, corruption, which could help to more effectively detect – there are for example human resources reinforcements at the National Investigation Office, additional special training of staff, organisational changes and so on – I believe that there will be improvements here too. But I find it hard to accept the obvious that this government does not fight corruption. This government advocates zero tolerance for corruption. Finally, this is also part of the coalition agreement's commitment. In addition, it has already adopted a two-year prevention programme at the beginning of 2015 and, in the framework of these measures, for example, a measure of centralising and informing public procurement in public health, where there is in fact the greatest corruption risk. We have also heard that the Ministry of Health has already embarked on a systematic resolution of waiting periods, improvements in public health management processes and the like. In the field of health, we have so far not had a comprehensive review of the health system, which would be the basis for planning reform processes, so the government has prepared an analysis of what we have heard today and at the committee meeting in the presentation of the work. Of course, the analysis itself will not deliver a solution, but it is a good basis for planning the changes we all want in the field of health, including as citizens and citizens, i.e. potential users of health services. There's probably no perfect solution. Even given that detection and proof of alleged corruption is very difficult. Therefore, in my view, the greatest emphasis should be placed on preventive action. It seems to me that the government, or the Ministry of Field Affairs, has approached the prevention of corruption with concrete measures. However, in the management or administration of public institutions and ultimately at each of us, it is also a matter for us to report in the event of an alleged corruption act to the services involved in investigating these acts, which is not a matter of the Ministry. But it is true that health problems are huge, we come to these conclusions more and more, and we all know very well that change cannot happen overnight. But given how the Minister or the Ministry has dealt with these problems, I believe that in this mandate it will also do what it has done and wants to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State Nina Pirnat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Only a direct response would I like to provide with regard to the monitoring of implementation is determined by the Administrative Procedure of the Neurological Clinic, or the Clinical Centre respects the decisions as it reports and what is being done. The implementation of all the measures taken in the Administrative Control Decision is, of course, regularly monitored by the Ministry of Health and also verified through the interim reports of the Department of Health Clinic. So far, three such interim reports have been prepared, in regular time, with evidence that we expect the next one in August. The Ministry of Health regularly monitors the appropriateness of the reports, according to each line, and has also responded and requested additional supplements in January. This means that all procedures and management of all irregularities identified in the administrative procedure are regularly monitored and also monitored. I would like to comment only on the statement concerning the obstruction of Mr Mark Night's work, which was referred to in the Finances. Mr Marko Night did not get only extended consent to work with another employer at that time, only at a time when the Clinical Centre had already tightened the eligibility procedures for the work of people who had asked for consent from another employer. Because of the fact that it has been all the time — and still is — the apparent phenomenon of amphibians that these people, doctors working with another employer, do not do their work at the parent institution, do not respond to on-calling, do too few hours at the parent institution, and do too few interventions, the Clinical Center was then in the process of determining the criteria and was then temporarily given consent later. That was all that happened in Mark Night's case. This has nothing to do with participating in any procurement procedures. So much for now and so much for later.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! At first, only a brief information, given that I was mentioned by Mrs Novak as the Minister, that I had resigned. It is true, of course, that I resigned from the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek, but my resignation was not the result of corruption in health, pressure, threats, but of the simple fact that at that time the worst crisis, including health, was simply not possible to harmonise proposals and different views within the coalition and that at that time it was also not the priority of the government of Alenka Bratušek. That is why, of course, I no longer saw my role and place in the government. But that's not today's theme. Of course, I support such discussions in the hope that something will improve in the system. On the other hand, it is true that these debates are particularly harmful for healthcare professionals. In health care, there are over 30,000 people working – I think there are about 6,000 doctors – and you can believe that the vast majority of these people are working hard to do what is right, working in poor conditions, with spent equipment, in disorderly organization, in lack of resources and so on. Fortunately, their efforts were the one that made today’s health for force work. Of course, this does not mean that corruption in health is not a problem. I have repeatedly mentioned that there is a similar problem, such as the problem of corruption in society as a whole, so it is not allowed in any segment. What's disturbing and what I'm always worried about when we start talking about health corruption is that it's the wind in the sails of those who claim that health doesn't need any extra money, which is far from the truth. What is the real dimension of this corruption? You can imagine that corruption is mostly where the most money is in play, the most taxpayer or our money. According to the Ministry of Public Administration's application, since the beginning of 2014, some over 6 billion money has been spent on public procurement, of which over 3 billion have been spent in infrastructure facilities. When we look at who received this money, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the DRI, the Infrastructure Directorate, and Dars were far away. Among the ten largest companies receiving money from public funds, there are 8 construction projects, but among these 10 is also the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana. Of course, these data do not cover low-value orders and numbers are slightly larger, but if we look at the construction business with over 3 billion public money, and in health care is the information that 258 million has been used, this dimension is significantly smaller if I compare this today to the damage done to health when a speech was made that 500 million disappear annually. Of course, this damage was huge, inappropriately higher, because if from 258 million — or if I go directly to the Clinical Center, where the director mentioned spending for all purchases, there is food, and so on — about 140 million per year are medicines themselves, medical materials, this figure is smaller. I agree that if only 10% of this money goes missing, it is very, very much money, and I believe that there are people who are not willing to give up this money either. This was the subject of a call for proposals, with the information published, and I am afraid that this is still happening in a very similar way. Of course, certain systemic changes are also needed here. Once again, if we compare this with the health needs of health, where the director of the Health Insurance Institute is talking about 300, 400 million additional money needed, it must be evident to everyone at the moment that even today, even if we would completely solve corruption and save – I don't know – 20, 30, 40 million, which is a lot of money again, it still does not solve the problem of health, even less public health. As it is ultimately necessary to be aware that we can talk about public health, but public health must be largely financed by public funds. If someone holds a fig in his pocket and promises public health, but does not promise to provide funds, then of course the bill does not come out. Maybe there's something else about the readings. I must say that incorrect allegations have been made, including those made by the proposers, particularly the Social Democratic Party. I have been the Minister of the Poor for two years, partly in the government of Mr Janez Janša and partly Mrs Alenka Bratušek. I must say that the programme or coalition contract was practically identical, both of which focused on public health. On the other hand, portraying concessionaires as a source of evil in health care is, of course, wrong and to a large extent unfair. The concessionaires are financed by public funds, the state is obliged to supervise them, and you need to know that concessionaires carry out a proper large share of the work in health care and that patients are satisfied with their work. If I am a little more of an advocate of concessionaires – although I am absolutely in favour of the public health system as such – believe me, there is no talk of corruption at the level of procurement of medical equipment, materials and the like in concessionaires. I am convinced that they are purchasing at significantly better and more favourable prices than most public institutions, even though it should be the opposite in terms of economies of scale and so on, as is known. That is why, of course, I find it difficult to agree with Mr Kordiš's theories and interpretations or even disagree with certain items. The role of insurance is similar. Today, we all oppose or criticize or are aware of the need to change supplementary insurance. It is definitely necessary to change because the type of insurance that is non-solid where profits are actually accumulated, including unjustified profits, at the expense of health savings, is at the expense of the measures we carried out in public health, but it is necessary to know that supplementary insurance was primarily reciprocal, created by a public insurance company, if we can say so, ZZS, because at a given time, so many years ago, the money in public health was insufficient. This is happening again today. I expect that if the claims that can be liked and pleasant are already overturned, there are also viable solutions to how to get additional money and how to really provide people with what they like to be promised at all ends – quality, quality, safety and access to health care, as we all want. Let me also repeat today and here that I hope that such a debate will not be a signal to anyone that the money in health is enough. I had in the government of Alenka Bratušek, where I was, precisely because of this biggest problem, how to provide additional funds during the worst crisis, where, as the Minister said, we gradually took 400 million away from health care to survive the period of crisis. But at what price? Today we no longer follow developments, we limited our staff, and unfortunately no one wanted to hear that we had the smallest number of doctors and so on. Today, we would have had fewer problems if someone then wanted to listen, but unfortunately there was no listening. Of course, there is something systemic in health and corruption as well. I think that much has been done in the field of drug procurement, that we are among countries with favourable drug prices, among comparable countries, also a reference country, and it would probably be useful to do something similar in medical materials, where we should also talk to the professional about standards, materials and how to use them. So the reserves are definitely possible, but once again, the warning is that if we want public health and people to offer what we all want for ourselves, for our dearest, dearest, children, wives and parents, then it will be absolutely necessary to bring additional resources to public health. That's not gonna work without it. Perhaps just so, today, of course, we are only here in the framework of Members and Members, and Mrs Brigita Chokl, the Acting Director-General of UKC, was also present on the Committee. In fact, it excused itself for the statements it made to the Commission for the supervision of public finances that it was not meant in the way it presented. She knows the reasons herself, but this is probably not what we might consider relevant today as the arguments she listed, which were highlighted today. The words were spoken, yet apparently with little information and information on its part. That is why I anticipate her withdrawing these claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Corruption, corruption, I would not, in fact, distinguish corruption in health care from any other corruption. My colleague Gantar reminded us that the latest data on the use of public funds is such that, in fact, the most of these resources spent on infrastructure, in short, on concrete, and that health care is only later on. The point is that corruption is not a concept that could be closely linked to health care, but it is a concept that is entrenched in all the times of our society. The problem I see about corruption is that there is much talk about it, but there is little more to see. As was said at the interpolation yesterday, it's like a big fear, it's big outside, and it's empty inside. According to some charts on the level of perceived corruption, we are quoted relatively high, and it is significant for these scales that they are actually made in some surveys by various business entities involved in an economy that say in these surveys how they perceive the state of the system, the structure of the country and point out that they perceive corruption. But the problem with all of this and all of these corruption studies is that we actually get names relatively rarely. If you don't have names, you talk a lot about some things, and you do some sort of scale, you're actually having a hard time doing it effectively. What we heard a criticism over the convening of this meeting today was that even if today we had these recommendations, which were mentioned at the vote of the working body, would not have improved the situation of health corruption in Slovenia. Nothing. In this mandate, the Government of the Modern Centre, Desus and SD Party has committed corruption where necessary, namely the Public Procurement Act, the Penal Code, the Judicial Service Act and the Courts Act. There are those movements that make us confident that in the coming period such stories as those mentioned today in the request to convene this meeting will be significantly less. I can't put my hand in the fire so it won't happen again. I'm sure it will still be, but I'm sure it will be much less. It is also problematic to request the convening of this meeting that the Minister of Health somehow wishes to present herself as inactive in this area, not to say incompetent, but to point out examples of corruption in the health sector in 2012 and 2013. Now let's leave what governments they were. But it's somehow starting to come to light, in fact, what it's meant to be today's minister's somehow subtle guilt for what happened before she was a minister. I would expect the applicants to refer to such a meeting on the subject of this corruption, and in particular to the few suspicions of corruption crimes, at a meeting of the Justice Committee. I think that's where it belongs. I think that the police must come to such a meeting and explain if they have any problems in persecuting such crimes, that the Ministry of Justice must come to determine whether further changes in criminal law are needed, in addition to what we have already adopted, and that there may be a definition of the PKK that we had, but, as has been observed, matters are still in progress with them. Some OECD concerns about the effectiveness of the KPK are also detected from the media. I believe this will also be an open topic in the coming months. My point or my implementation goes in this direction that when we have corruption, we must first ask ourselves what the police are doing. Why don't people report these crimes to the police if that's the problem? What kind of work does the court do in this regard? How can the Ministry of Justice help? But if it comes to the Ministry of Health – even at a time when very delicate legislation is being adopted, the Health Act, when there will be a lot of opposition, because you know that once you change one thing a little, all the doctors, the chamber, I don't know who all – will rise again, and then you get the feeling that such meetings are not meant to do what the address says, but to do something else, such as compromise by the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to start with the coalition contract of this government. The word corruption is on almost every other, third party, corruption, against corruption. For example, in the area of health corruption: "Implementing zero tolerance for health corruption. Of all those who are responsible for the rise of corruption by their actions or by their failure to act, we will require personal responsibility." Then we have the recommendations that you have discussed and have rejected by these coalition Members, which are going in this direction: the National Assembly recommends to the Government and the Ministry to present to the National Assembly an analysis of the effects of the joint public procurement measures, that the Ministry and the Government take the necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise the procurement process and the services associated with medical equipment, in order to suspend all persons until the end of the investigation, and so on, to call on the competent institutions to take immediate decisive action in the area of determining the responsibility of individuals responsible for corruption. Just what you have in your coalition contract, you've turned down on the board. Today we are even listening by Desus and SD to how fine the debate is, how corruption is a problem, how to solve it. What do you do when something really has to be done? Press a key against such recommendations. Now I don't understand. There's an even bigger problem in the SMC. The Head of the Health Committee at the SMC says that corruption is not a problem. Some say that corruption is a problem, but not just in health care. Dear Members of the SMC, read the coalition contract and then consider whether you will respect it or not. More. It was obvious that today’s session was unnecessary, that time was wasted. Sir, if there were no interpolation by the opposition and this point by the opposition, we would have been home yesterday. I understand you, speaking as little as possible in the National Assembly, even the opposition needs to limit time to not say anything about what is going on in different parts of our country, but, you know, respected why you were elected, to debate, whether we are discussing the law on interpretations or something else. If this meeting were unnecessary both at the meeting of the parent working body and today at the meeting of the National Assembly, this could be taken into account and it could be said, under point 1, that you are procedurally proposing the withdrawal of the item from the agenda. Then there would be no debate at all, which would also be in line with your actions, that the opposition should be allowed as little time as possible to discuss. Even more, you say some of the recommendations are unconstitutional. Dear colleagues, how long have you been in this National Assembly? 18 months or something. You have been proven to have violated the Constitution. It was easy for you to do that. Here you suspect that it would be unconstitutional for all persons to be suspended for impartiality until the end of the investigation. Now it's quite the opposite. The legal lobby in the SMC has apparently decided what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional. They have no problem in contrastituting a fellow Member into prison, but they have problems because they suspect that something is unconstitutional. In the SDS Group, we will continue with the points on corruption, not just in the field of health. The predecessor also said that in the area of construction there is probably an even greater sum of money spinning and corruption in banking, so wait for the continuation of these meetings, which are not a waste of our time, but what people have chosen us for. When I come to the office, people usually come in with such a "spy" and say the judicial system didn't work out for them. They come because they have health problems, road problems, because they feel like something's wrong. And they say, let's say, let's do something, obviously, so far, especially the opposition, we're allowed to speak, but when these coalition Members say we have to act, you press the button against taking anything. [[..]] When I read the last copies of the government's meetings, there are so damn few laws that in 15 minutes the government could have ended up having a Prime Minister who could do that, a little bit more of a man. Let corruption be brought out of the agenda by taking appropriate systemic and all other measures. I really do not understand who is against the recommendations that the Government and the Ministry should call on the competent institutions to take immediate and decisive action in the area of determining the responsibility of individuals involved in corruption. Who can oppose such a decision? Those who seem to like this condition. I'm not going to say that it's either the current minister's fault or the current coalition, no, because it's all been heard before. But people expect us to be at least at some points united. If we cannot unify ourselves in the area of the destruction of corruption, then where should we unite? I really don't understand that you reject such sound judgment and recommendations. My friend Zorčič said that even if we accepted it, we wouldn't have improved anything. I suggest we close the stall at 3 p.m. and go home, and the donkeys give up today's salary because we're obviously unnecessary. We are doing ourselves a bad service because people already think that we are Members of the sky, who is responsible for everything, even what is happening at the ministries and at other state or parastatal other institutions. It's all our fault. If the Minister adopts a rule, we are Members of Parliament. That's not true. It's not our fault he didn't make that decision either. Members from the SD, Desus and SMC were against it, not that the National Assembly was not in favour. You were against it. Sometimes it is necessary to distinguish a little from that word of responsibility, which some are keen to use, but they have problems with their actions in this direction. People have been talking about public health contracts, waiting periods, the prices of materials and medicines for 20 years or more, and the caravan is moving on because it obviously suits someone. I agree that anyone who is part of a system is not immediately corrupt. I can't say that the Minister is part of a lobby because of her previous functions. I believe that the work she was doing was qualitative, that it was also because of the Government's wish that she was a minister, but if you look at who was on coffee with whom, after watching the CV of the minister and the secretary of state, everyone has, fortunately, some good health education and pedigree, but an ordinary citizen could immediately say that, of course, if she was working in a reinsurance company, and if she was doing something there, she is already connected. I hope that the ladies are connected to these organisations, the quality of their work, not the problem of their decision-making, where probably someone from the previous job says to them, "Be careful you don't change it, because this nursery suits us." In Slovenia we are already known to love as many kindergartens as possible, and God forbid that any kindergarten should be interrupted, but this government is already the most famous since it prolongs these kindergartens. For example, chimneys, waste in every area, we find out how something is wrong, but let’s leave this nursery, and maybe sometimes we can use it in some way or another. I also listened with interest to the debate of my colleague Gantar, whom I personally appreciate, not only as a former minister, but also as a very correct Member, who was very correct today, when he was not trying to determine whether this government, the former Government or the former, was responsible, but he pointed out some irregularities that existed. He also resigned because he found that one of the main health problems is this point that we are discussing today, which is corruption. I really expect that once a healthy farmer's mind will reach all the Members of this National Assembly and that we will not hunt because we are a coalition, the opposition. I admit that in 2004-2008 and 2012, we did not support the opposition's decisions or recommendations, but what is happening in this mandate is abnormal. Nothing is taken into account by the opposition. It's de facto against. I repeat several times that I enjoyed being a professional associate in the 2004-2008 mandate, when we also had a partnership for development. When we settled in the coalition, got a marriage, studied it, and when we said that it was, they sent me, because I was an expert on certain committees, like Mr. Potræ, or someone else, where we told the opposition, to tell them how long it took them, two, three days, to see the law that we had where we could come together. You will not believe how many times we have taken those proposals into account, but unfortunately that government has fallen and unfortunately that constructive policy has fallen, which is getting smaller and smaller. I am sorry that if this goes on, I am just afraid of what will happen in the next elections if we increasingly separate the Slovenian people rather than find common themes. Once again, the problem of corruption should be our shared task and our commitment to respect what the Government has written in the coalition treaty to enforce zero tolerance for corruption, in health care or elsewhere. But, Your Honor, with your stubbornness, if "there's nothing" or "maybe it's a problem, but what we want" we really won't solve anything. That is why I believe that these discussions are good, but perhaps some viewer of this session will say that at least we are talking about corruption, although we may not be removing it, because we cannot remove it from today to tomorrow, but at least we are saying what they are telling us, and that is that corruption is a problem. And the problem is at local level in different segments, and there is an even bigger problem in the state where the easiest millions get lost here and there. Small-scale public procurement, public tender, exactly the kind of mudbag must have a car to get exactly the right one. No one will say that one will be selected for medical devices or medicines because it is already known that it will be selected, and the others will not even apply. Otherwise, they can complain, but sooner or later, the lobby machinery makes its own and the caravan goes on, and corruption remains on the agenda of the people, the National Assembly and also the competent ministries. I think we must devote as much time as possible to the destruction of corruption in various areas in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I realized that I was misunderstood by my colleague Lisco. No one said that it was a waste of time, but that this meeting could be significantly more productive if they had the right actors, and at the same time a working body meeting. By the way, colleague Lisec, you know, some of the meetings in the National Assembly are thematic, but some are legislative or adoption of acts that are completely different. I believe there, even when you proposed marriage, no one has ever told you it was a waste of time. While on topical subjects such as one that is more focused on speaking and discussing, these are often shared here. As regards the recommendations on systemic corruption in health care and why we have not accepted them. Number 1: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a debate on possible corruption in health..." What recommendation is this to the Government? Tell me how this eliminates corruption if we accept that the National Assembly has held a debate. Point 2: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health investigate allegations of possible corruption on the basis of the words of the acting Director-General Brigita Čokl." But now the government will investigate what Mrs Brigita Chokl said in Parliament? What are they, cops? Are they going to investigate this now? Please! If you think a crime is a crime, you know what the path is and what the phone number is, report it. "Let him present an analysis of the effects of the joint public procurement measure in health..." If the Government presents an analysis of the effects of the joint procurement measure to the National Assembly and the Ministry, how does this now eliminate corruption? It also does not cancel, as you can get to know it in a different way with this analysis. "The National Assembly proposes to the Government and the Ministry of Health to call on the heads of institutions to take immediate and decisive action." You could have called them directly. Why are we asking the government to call him now? He doesn't have any more jurisdiction than we do. This is the kind of nonsense that we've estimated that they're not going anywhere, and that's why we didn't support it in the kit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Zorčič, deal with the Minister! The Minister of Health says that measures in the field of common public procurement, led by the Government under the leadership of Mir Cerar and Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc, have been introduced in 2015, the first step or one of the steps to prevent corruption. Mr Zorčič, you are sneezing, but earlier you said that this decision did not fully contribute to preventing corruption. We are interested in the results in 2015 in view of the total procurements already mentioned by the Minister in the field of medicine, gloves and so on, as we have already said many times. On the Health Committee, Mr Zorčič, where you were present, it was not felt by the Ministry that we would have problems with this to tell us. This action, the Minister of Health constantly reiterates that it is one of the first measures that is important. I don't know why you're nodding now if you're saying it sucks. Next thing. You were fully represented on the Health Committee when these recommendations were addressed. Neither of you has made any other proposals for these recommendations. Not one. Even that part of the recommendation that you say is unconstitutional, you didn't try to correct. You didn't try it. To make other recommendations to take a step toward our offer. No, you didn't. Now, Mr Zorčič, you are smart and relying on these recommendations, which you have not even tried to correct with a comma. Not even with the wand. You're saying we should address a direct institution, a public institution. The National Assembly makes recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the Ministry. Why did we address the Government to verify what was said on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission? Mr. Zorčič, there is a Justice Minister sitting in the government, you know, the government is not just the Ministry of Health. That's why we addressed the government. But if the government doesn't know who to address, then there's nothing to rule. We're not going to call Mr. Klemenčič: Hello, would you please go see what's going on at UKC? The government could react to these allegations on its own. Alone. That's why it was addressed to the Government, Mr. Zorčič. Because the government will then tell the Justice Minister when they're sitting there. Once again, with regard to the third decision – Measures of common public procurement in health. I can pull out of this shed when the secretary didn't point that out. I don't think I made anything up if I said that what I said last time I didn't know how many committees she said was the first step. Now we want to know what's gotten better. Did these joint public health contracts improve in 2015? Were the purchase prices lower, or did prices become uniform and so on? This would also show whether the corruption risk in these contracts has been reduced. Even though everyone's telling you that public procurement won't save corruption. Because in public procurement, Mr Zorčič, you have the only bidders, exclusive and pressure on certain manufacturers to give the servicemen exclusive and so on. It doesn't solve corruption, it doesn't solve it. Don't you want to know what the government achieved in 2015 in this area? You know, because you're in a coalition, you just don't know how to explain things. But I'm interested because I don't have this information. If this is a measure that is supposed to be a very good measure and so on. Mr. Zorčič, first of all, break it down for you. And that. The fact that we have thematic meetings of the National Assembly is the first time I've heard. Now I'm just waiting for us to have a matinee and an evening show. I'm sorry, but sometimes you have such statements that I don't know. Illustrate what the Government is, what the National Assembly is, what the powers of the National Assembly are, what the powers of the Government are. You're sitting in the National Assembly and you're still a lawyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u67	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I can see that my colleague Godec misunderstood me. I believe she didn't want to understand me, not that she couldn't. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, the competent institutions for action in the area of determining the liability of individuals involved in corruption are the police, the court and the KPK. In what way do you see the advantage of the government doing this? You can call the meeting yourself, call everyone and ask them if you think you have jurisdiction. But going through the government like this is clearly the intention to actually discredit the government in this sense if you don't do anything. Now you're trying to make us believe that we're for corruption because we haven't taken these conclusions of yours. That's not true. We have already adopted the Penal Code 1 year ago, look at it, we have served our crimes, so that the use of other means under the Criminal Procedure Act will be more likely, and we have changed the recruitment of judges. In short, there have been measures that I hope will have some positive consequences for preventing corruption in all sectors, including health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, the proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u70	We will call on the competent institutions, but it seems to me that it may be more serious that the Government also calls all institutions – from the police, KPK, NPU to no one. If the Ministry does that, is there anything wrong with having five people call them, or is there a call coming from page 5? Do you think that's wrong? And as for the fact that now we want to prove that the government is doing nothing and that the Ministry is doing nothing, because we don't have to prove it because it's true. It doesn't work anyway. But those words you just put in my mouth because you said we wanted to say it. What's wrong with that? One letter is written and it is said to take a look, as in 2012 and 2013 there were certain complaints, court orders with evidence along with evidence, and nothing has happened until today. That's why we said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should call. And nobody's talking about your government being guilty, just let this government call because now it's the government. It's not my fault if you now rule that you have to do it. Start working and not for every thing saying that this is not your jurisdiction, but the government can't do that. What, then, can your government do if it is not yet able to call on the competent institutions to take immediate more decisive action to determine the responsibility of individuals involved in corruption? He can't even do that. The recommendations are very open, already on the committee itself we have said that we were also ready to listen to your comments and include them, but none of you have done anything. And now you're defending the government and the ministry that they can't do that. Then this government is unable to do absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u72	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker! I believe that corruption in our country has really grown this way – in all areas – that it is a serious problem. It is right that we are discussing this serious problem today. I must say that corruption has grown everywhere where large amounts of money are being converted, especially public money. It should also be said that, for citizens and citizens, there is particularly corruption in health care, which citizens and citizens face many times, because health services need each and every one of us first. The fact is that corruption in health is nothing more than corruption in other areas. Health corruption occurs – here I will give some examples – both in the procurement of equipment and in the procurement of medicines, in public procurement and other services. This is how we met years ago with a very resounding relationship of corruption in the procurement of operating tables, which is probably what we all remember very well. I would also like to draw attention to corruption in the procurement of cords and so on. Our government is committed to the problem of corruption in society, so last year a programme of anti-corruption measures was adopted for 2015 and 2016 with zero tolerance for corruption. I think it should be emphasized that we have set ourselves the task of persecuting corruption to zero tolerance. This programme also sets out the competence of individual institutions to be involved in the implementation of specific measures in this field. We have also amended the Public Procurement Act with the aim of preventing corruption and its growth in this area. A programme of centralisation and information in public procurement in public health is being implemented and so on. I would also like to draw attention to the important corruption risk that continues to occur between the low level of public and private health, in particular in terms of skipping waiting species. Furthermore, the particular problem of health corruption that we see in Desus is also in the field of investment, which, if I recall, were often driven intransparency and with controversial behaviours driven by the desire for more money. This resulted in the conclusion of annexes to the various contracts of the operators, which then took these investments to a higher level. I'd like to add the following. I appeal to the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, to continue the activities and measures that will systematically eliminate and to the greatest extent eliminate corruption in health care. I also expect accelerated action by the competent authorities to activate and prosecute corruption and crime in health care, which may result from corruption. Respected and respected! To conclude, I would also like to say that I support the opinion of Mr Igor Zorčič, a respected colleague who felt that the problem of corruption should also be brought to the Health Committee and, of course, the Ministry of Justice included in this, because I am confident that the Penal Code will have to be supplemented and some acts committed as crimes. Here I am primarily referring to acts of various forms of corruption that may not yet be covered by the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u74	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the context of the point of the Proposal for a Recommendation on Systemic Corruption in Health, one important part was lost, namely the one relating to the regulation of supervision in health establishments. The material also contains very specific examples, both from the statements of the Director of the University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana and from the case-by-case procurement of vascular resistors, medical equipment to reverse, the exploitation of individuals in health, the acquisition of operating tables, but this is already the part where things begin to take place, and this must be decided by the management. However, if we do not have clear control and clear leadership in leadership, this systemic corruption will, of course, be introduced to us at all times. What am I talking about? The Decision on the conversion of the Public Health Institute of the Clinical Centre to the Public Health Institute of the University Clinical Centre, published on 20 December 2006, provided that the candidate for the Director-General has university education, additional management education, at least 5 years of management and management experience. There are also other applications, but I will stop at this point because on 16 July 2015, the Decision amending the Decision on the Conversion of the Public Health Institute of the Clinical Centre to the Public Health Institute of the University Clinical Centre amends the provisions of Article 12 of this Decision when appointing the Director-General of the University Clinical Centre in such a way as to enable the applicant to have the education obtained under the 2nd degree study programmes or the level of education obtained under the study programmes corresponding to the 2nd degree education in accordance with the law. We are therefore reducing the level of required education in fact at the top of the management of the health system, which we can certainly consider the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana. Next, to have at least 5 years of work experience in comparable jobs in the field of organisation, management and management. The field of conditions and criteria, which must be sufficient to enable the world of the University Clinical Centre to choose a candidate, is also significantly expanded here. Previously it was very clear "at least 5 years of experience in management and management", and then "at least 5 years of experience in comparable jobs". Where's he going? Less than you have defined terms, there's a bigger field for the free judgment of the world that he's going to choose or he's not going to choose. So it happens to us that, say, there is no choice of candidates who are extremely quality and who meet all the conditions, but the world decides not to have a conversation with them to present the programme because it has such a wide range of options for independent decision-making. There is, of course, discrimination in this field. Individual candidates at the last call met all the conditions, but the world did not invite them to the interview to present its programme, its vision of the management of the University Clinical Centre, despite all the conditions being met. All they get is a message from the world that this candidate and this one wasn't elected without any explanation why he wasn't chosen, why he wasn't invited to the interview. This is the discrimination afforded by the amendment of the Decision adopted and published on 16 July 2015. This is where we have to start fixing things. How do we manage the University Clinical Center right now? For two and a half years now, we have a perpetrator of an obligation, although neither in the decree nor in the statute of this law is it envisaged that there should be an perpetrator of an obligation at all. While the Law on Institutions allows, in one provision, for the temporary appointment of the perpetrator of the duties. Temporarily. But can the term temporary be two and a half years long? Absolutely too long, absolutely too long. At this point it is really necessary to clear this issue first, because then we can read in the media a statement by the President of the Council of the University Clinical Centre, which clearly states that if this candidate is not selected, he will resign. The procedure itself, of course, provides, following the decision of the Council, for the Government to give its consent to this candidate. So the President of the Council stands up to the Government and says to her, "If you don't give your consent to exactly what I say is right, I will resign." Perfect, pure confusion at that point where we should have a very clear and transparent procedure. What else do we face in these procedures? That even certain stages of these procedures are carried out behind closed doors, thus withdrawn from the public's eyes. Why? It is a public institution, it is an extremely important institution that cares about human health, and it is right that these procedures are public. To change this situation, of course, it is necessary to clear the competence of the boards of institutions in a way that they can actually exercise control in public institutions in order to have very transparent procedures. For at this point, there is not even a time limit for when the Council of the Office of a certain candidate, when not, when the procedure is completed, in fact, nothing has been thoroughly cleared. I think that we really need to reach an agreement on all of these issues or, in particular, these issues in the shortest possible time, both within the coalition and with the help of the opposition, because health is in everyone's interest and the transparent spending of public money on health is in everyone's interest. If we make order here, of course we can find that waiting lines will be smaller, that requests for additional funds will not be so extensive or perhaps not even necessary, which is what we need right now in this area in Slovenia. If it is found that there is a need for increased or even better supervision of the board of institutions, it is necessary to ask whether this currently in force is indeed written down in such a way as to enable the supervision of the boards of institutions. If not, we need to change the law. In fact, I have unverified information that even Minister Koprivnikar should have one such law, but he simply does not come into the procedure. If this is true, it is indeed necessary to look at the text of this law as soon as possible and to see whether this issue is really addressed in a way that clears responsibility, and to come into the procedure as soon as possible. In addition to having a vague process or criteria that have been reduced by amending the decision and a very discriminatory approach to individual candidates, this also allows for complaints, on the other hand, what has happened. According to my information, an appeal for election was also made because the individual candidate was not invited to an interview. This means that the procedure has become even more complicated. Since he is untransparent, he also makes complaints, and we are without a director and we have already two and a half years of responsibility. And even when you have the Director's current regulations, there is a need to clear up the duality of management. We have a CEO at the University Clinical Centre right now, and then we have a business director, but at the same time we have professional directors or supervisors. This duality — the CEO, the professional director or business director — is something that does not allow for efficient business, even less supervision. This needs to be done. Even when we look at the conditions for the Director-General of UKC, these are now lower than the conditions for the appointment of a head or head of individual department within the UKC. So the system is completely broken. If we do not clear this system, we will not be able to implement this measure with regard to systemic corruption in health. We need to have clear rules, to appoint people who can work responsibly, not to look at the various pressures, but to work in the interests of people, the interests of health, but not in the interests of the monetary wishes of this second, third, fourth, where health is at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u75	Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. The pressure of the lobbies in health can also be an excuse for the poor functioning of public health authorities. As an example, I can mention the former Director of the General Hospital of Jesenice, who was dismissed from office of Director for repeated negligence in the performance of the Director's duties and not in any way because of the operation of the lobby. As it turned out later, the dismissed director concluded corrupt contracts, which were in no way related to the purchase of medicines, equipment and other materials for the treatment of patients. He has entered into two corrupt contracts, namely cleaning of premises and equipment and internal transport with the transport and escort of patients and reception services. In 2008, the retired director of the General Hospital Jesenice Mr. Igor Horvat also signed a contract on public private partnership for the construction of a garage house, without the authority or consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the government cannot bear responsibility for such acts because it has not been made aware. In addition, in 2010, the same person, once again without the Government's consent, put in management a significant portion of the area around the hospital itself, which resulted in the hospital's garage manager even claiming to pay the rent to build a military hospital at the time of the construction of the emergency centre. What do I want to stress here? In both cases, the management of the hospital in Jesenice responded appropriately. It informed all relevant institutions and competent authorities of the action. All necessary procedures have been initiated. In this case, it can be said that it was not a case of corruption in the health sector, but a service of the criminal offence of harming the public health institution, which is due to the actions and decisions of the individual and is in no way a consequence of the functioning of the lobbies in the health sector. In doing so, it is very important that the current Council of the Institute and the new management of the General Hospital of Jesenica have informed all competent authorities of the suspicion of unlawful use of public funds and the suspicion of abuse of official office and initiated all necessary procedures. They did exactly what was expected of them. However, the epilogue or final result depends, of course, on the functioning of the competent authorities. Of course, we expect them to do their work properly, as is done by the General Hospital of Jesenice and the current management. Today we listen to criticism of the functioning of the current Government and Minister of Health. As a colleague of Deklava said in her speech, the then President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, at the resignation of Minister Alenka Trop Skaza, said that it was necessary to realize that the mistakes made for 20 years could not be rectified within one year. Following the resignation of Mrs Alenka Trop Skaza, the management of the Ministry of Health was taken over by the President of the Government, who co-signed the request to convene today's extraordinary meeting. Where was Mrs Alenka Bratušek's concern for health care when, at the time of her management of the Ministry of Health, which lasted six months, she did not visit the Ministry once on her own? Of course, the co-signatory and the proposer of today’s meeting would expect a little more presence in the hall if her health care was so great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u77	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Someone obviously doesn't want to talk, but I will. I think we should go back to the beginning of today's debate, to the content that brought us together today at this point in the agenda. I'd like to do it in one order or another. In the position of the SMC's largest group, there was no argument as to the content or arguments of what would happen in the country, that your term zero corruption would really come to life, but, above all, what types of corruption we have and what the title of this document should be. True, we have different types of corruption. We have little corruption, we have medium corruption, we have big corruption, we have systemic corruption. But what's one word for all this? Big, irresponsible shit. That's a common name for all of this. Speaking of corruption in health care, this is all the more important. Then, in some SMC discussions today, I listened again to who is a cosigner and how anyone is allowed to sign such a document. But now the SMC will determine who in this national council can sign something or who can't? You're amazing. Now you're going from the legislative branch of power to where? [[…]] Dictatorship? Don't worry about who signed, deal with problems in this country. Take a look at your coalition contract and see how many commitments you have made in two years have virtually come true. Look at your coalition contract, where you talked about ethics and had to, and look where you brought the country. Look at your actions once, and do not deal with who writes anything and who signs it. Then I heard something else: We've only been in power for two years, and we're really not to blame for all of this. Yeah, it'll hold. But what's the saddest part? That the Minister of Justice is in your ranks and that he was the head of the Anti-Corruption Commission. You know what the OECD said to this committee? It's about time for Slovenia to start doing what it's meant to do. A few days ago, the information officer said that during the time of your Minister, who was also known as Minister after at least eight infringements of the law, personal accounts were illegally collected for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No grounds, Your Honor. For what? What's the score? Again, what policy must be prevented so that the next elections can be held on an equal footing and in accordance with the law and the Constitution? Yeah, that's corruption, too. That's corruption, too. Now let me go to the content. Why? Amazing information has been heard on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. I'm also here wondering if the Ministry of Finance has already filed a criminal complaint against everything that's been said. Did the Justice Minister react to anything? Did the police react? Amazing information, but look at it, that meeting was not tolerated, and it was not possible to see the video on Slovenian third channel, although we all know that it is their primary duty to publish or monitor the work of the National Assembly. So let me take something out of that session. Something has been exposed, and this information is not so difficult to obtain. The supervisor. One of the companies has turned EUR 196 million over the last ten years into Slovenian hospitals, which is the result of the health of citizens and citizens. Who owns this company? Youth magazine, or the owners of the Youth magazine, to be exact. It is also known that for this purpose they sold aids that could be obtained for example for one euro and they sold them for four. So from public funds, at the expense of a company – I don't know where it is, these are now some guesses, they say different things, but it does have a seat – it's worth 150 million euros. Today, you are ordering the opposition, if we know about corruption in Slovenia, to report it. Your Honor! This is happening now, in your government. It surprised me, and it also made me regret what the former minister, who once resigned, had said. He made some arguments today, but he knows best who the real ones are, so I'm not gonna argue with him about it. But that Mrs. Chokl, the executor of the duty of the University Clinical Centre, who in the past has walked with the bag many times, is also Mr. Zemlarič – it is quickly on the line, according to the waiting lines – said that this was happening and even told the names and surnames, and Mr. Gantar said that she was taking this statement back almost so that she did not know what she was saying. Are we talking about corruption again? Maybe it's the pressure to tie her tongue? I'm just asking. I ask and at the same time express my concern. She's one of the first to say out loud what's going on. But today it's not supposed to apply any more, it's withdrawing the statement. Ah, come on! She did not just say that, she said the following, quite specifically, this is a magnetogram: "If individuals fail to reach their own, they go to certain offices first, if they fail to reach their own office again, they go to other institutions and then they go to the President of the Government or even the President of the country." Mr Zorčič will certainly tell you what kind of corruption this is. What do we have on the other side, Your Honor? We're talking about big money. I don't think our citizens and citizens can even imagine these amounts. In Slovenia, however, the waiting period has risen by 15% in one year. We are talking about a waiting age that can be fatal for the lives of citizens and citizens. If we turn this into sums, we're talking about a lot of surgery, heart surgery of our children, when they don't come in, or if they don't have the right therapy. There were also deaths. If we turn these amounts around a little differently, we will recall a boy where citizens and citizens raised money to enable him to receive appropriate treatment abroad. The boy's walking today, and we're gonna amputate his leg. Let's turn these numbers into actions and concrete things. Do not change whether the conclusions are appropriate and whether the decision might have been written differently. Whoever wants to do something about corruption in this country - and the government has all the powers and all the possibilities - will do so. But he can find a thousand and one excuse to stay the way he is, and to power companies that are still very, very useful and beneficial. 32% of people, respected colleagues, fellow citizens and fellow citizens, 32% of people die in Slovenia after cancer! We're on the top of the list of countries. Then we will listen again — and this is the worst — that this is because they have a different data display system. We also have something like this in the Ministry of Justice, where we skate across all the scales, and we listen to methodology all the time. Your Honor, that's not gonna make it any better. Turn the methodology, but so many and so many die. The percentages are numbers, and in this case the numbers are people. Even if one dies because the system doesn't work in our country, it's a shame. Even if it's just one. When we talk about quality of health, it is of course important that we have sufficient resources on the one hand to have quality organisation and quality in care, either in material or in healthcare professionals. Let me take my turn. Of course, the health money will never be as much as you would like it to be, but it is still so much that we do nothing that this money is actually intended for public health and would not be devoted to other things through various forms of corruption. The organisation is true, but many directors warn that they do not have the money, that sometimes they do not know what employees would use or put into their hands for it. Speaking of quality, I also cannot fully agree with Mr Gantar, who said that today this debate is particularly harmful to health workers. That's not true. This debate today is for the benefit of healthcare professionals, because there are many of them, I will say the majority who are doing well, who are doing everything to help citizens and citizens, but not enough resources. They face the fact that their programs are rising and that they simply cannot do anything in those standards anymore. This debate is essential if we are to help healthcare professionals and all other staff working in the health field. Only then will the quality of health services be better. This time we are talking about really serious things, so please avoid discussing whether a decision is written exactly the way someone imagined it, but not giving it theirs, whether it is systemic big or medium-sized corruption. Once again, it's all about shit. You, as a coalition, are obliged to stop this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u79	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Corruption is like a cancerous growth that has an extremely favourable environment where there is a lot of money. There's a lot of money in our country's health systems, specifically in our country's health system. When I was preparing for this session, I did a little digging into the numbers I love, and I found out the following. Very close. The annual health expenditure in the 28 EU countries is slightly more than a thousand billion euros, that is one trillion euros or, if someone is more in line with the 10th euro. Between 3 and 11% of GDP is spent on healthcare in European countries, in Slovenia in 2014 9% of GDP. How much money is that? About 3 billion and a half euros. Now, in the EU, it is estimated that €60 billion per year is lost in fraud and errors, and in one word corruption could also be said. In view of this assessment that we will have an easier picture, the EU price for healthcare fraud and corruption is at least €164 million per day. A day. We have solutions in New Slovenia. We say: more privatisation, less corruption. Now you will say: What this New Slovenia is saying, you want to privatize the health system. That's not true. Earlier, colleague Tomaž Gantar, who knows the Slovenian health system – of course, the Minister also knows him so that I will not do anything wrong – talked about concessionaires. In Nova Slovenija we say that the optimal dose of concessionaires or private sector is required. The concession contract regulates the relationship between the concessionaire and the concessionaire for the performance of public service, underlining public health services. It's a simple example of a private person who's going to buy an X-ray machine. Will the supplier, for example, be able to blackmail him for corruption or he is a supplier? It's not working. It's not working. This thesis, this axiom, which is not only ours, that if there is more privatisation, there is less corruption, it holds and is also verified in the world. We regret that these recommendations have not been adopted on the Health Committee and that they are being assessed today as if they were in a hole but are not outside. But it's associated with an old Slovenian proverb that says fear is inside the guesthouse, but there's nothing outside. Yes, who for God's sake sees any fear in these recommendations? Who? Those who promote and support corruption? But one more thing is our task and an essential issue for Parliament, namely the elimination of the rejection of systemic corruption in the health system. Much of the fight against health corruption can – I say – even must – be ensured by the country by better regulation of the health system. In Novi Slovenija we have prepared appropriate measures for the reform of the health system. We're waiting for the Prime Minister to have a school hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u82	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! Today, when I discuss corruption, I will not talk about numbers and statistics. I will, of course, give my view of corruption. Perhaps at first, when colleague Horvat was still here, he would have just added that corruption was only in public work, in public hospitals and so on. He mentioned how a private individual can, of course, if he is a family company, I believe that corruption is falling away, but if it comes to larger companies, we also have bigger private companies, and there is corruption. Corruption is a problem in any system, industry and, of course, in health care. Are you responsible for keeping your eyes closed? Certainly not the current government and the Minister of Health. This minister has done the most recently or in recent years in this area. Corruption, however, is a problem for a wider society that decides what is moral and what standards it sets. Our government took it seriously. Of course, our nation has lived on the edge of the Balkans all the time, this is known in various areas, of course it has lived differently and has been associated with it. If 30 years ago it was perfectly normal for the president of the hospital to go to a five - day World Congress with his wife, and 14 - day tour tours, this is today terrifying and perverse. I think that's actually what we all condemn in this room. When we look at a drug area where the pharmaceutical lobby is so strong, it is, of course, difficult to lay down rules to establish some order in this area. It is primarily up to each individual, his honesty, and his understanding. In similar areas we used to have fees, today we are talking about allowances, and these supplements are increasingly common, although this has not occurred in recent years, but has been going on for the past 10 years. In the field of medicines, there could be agreed prices and quantitative discounts. Of course, some things could be simplified here. Zero tolerance for corruption should be at the head of every hospital director, and so does our minister. The public procurement system is, as it is, the law is becoming increasingly complicated, but of course things are improving, although it is true that there is a problem in this area that will still need to be highlighted or given more attention. The total public procurements carried out by the Association of Health Institutions – something that has saved up, I think about 20%, in electricity, gas, telephone and so on. If we were to take the mammography procedure down to a hospital, for example, things would have to be simplified to determine the basic characteristics of an apparatus, one that we naturally order. We must not go into detail because those details then sometimes cause problems and even problems with the final price. This is certainly not necessary. In a hospital that is small, it is possible to have a checkup or this review of a large number of things is, of course, easier, but not above all, it is simply not possible. However, if we had the prescribed standards, the materials for the base basket, of course, these grey zones would be smaller and I think that we are now working in this area. I will give one example of good practice at the General Hospital in Slovenj Gradec, where the procurement procedure is such that if someone wants a new medicine or medical material in the hospital, it goes to the Medical Commission first. It shall send a written explanation on the prescribed form, then a financial calculation shall be carried out, and if the costs are higher than the revenue of a service, which of course may also happen, then the expert board shall decide. If this is a decision for – in certain cases – a decision may be taken, the Director shall finally decide which will also be responsible at the final stage. Such cases are also supported by the minister, as I have spoken with her. Let me finish. There's corruption in health care, just like anywhere else. It's hard to detect, but it does exist, and it will be as long as it's our culture and morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u84	Madam President, thank you for your floor. I'll proceed just where I ended up at the beginning of the session. In the presentation of the Group's position, of course, I did not talk about what the proposer should do, how he should write these proposals, but I spoke about what they wrote in those proposals, I talked about their concrete recommendations and why those recommendations were not appropriate to be accepted or endorsed by the Health Committee. But of course, of course, I will never, I promise, tell you what we should do, you probably know that. I have previously disputed the very title of this meeting, namely the Proposal for Recommendations on Systemic Corruption in Health. What is systemic corruption? We need to look at a little definition. If you look at the definition, we find that in health care about so-called systemic corruption, we still cannot talk, and this is really a little too much of a diction. If there is systemic corruption, it means that we actually have, at every time, in every action, in every process, in every person, participant and so on, some corruption. Moreover, for this, of course, both the network and the policy must be unified. If you claim this to be true, then of course I invite you to provide some concrete evidence, which also involves policy – I am talking about current policy – in this systemic corruption. Of course you don't have these. But if we're talking about some individual corruption or some crime, it's something else. But here we absolutely agree, and there is probably no parliamentary group here that would say that there is no corruption in health care, both in health care and elsewhere. But talking about systemic corruption is still too bad. I'll give you a case. If I take the cases that you're talking about, which I've heard of. If a pharmaceutical sponsor or a supplier of some equipment or medicine is sponsoring a trip from a professional seminar to a family and a doctor, a supervisor, it is probably not the doctor who came to the department today. We know who has this power and the right to participate in some professional meetings. If so, of course it is to ask what this one did to be so rewarded that he was paid for his family. I guess it's probably hard to figure out just plain, black and white, but if that's what's going on, then it's the only thing that happens with a hand in hand with the management of this public health institution. I will repeat here again, as I have already said at a number of meetings of the Health Committee or at a meeting of the National Assembly. Public health authorities are the ones who should be responsible for business and for the legality of business and work in a particular public health institution. If the administration – this is the right direction, the Director-General or the Director-General – allows some health institutions to take these so-called professional tourism trips within this public institution, sign them, approves the absence of these actors, then I do not know of any such case if I knew, but I would know what my duty is. Such acts, of course, must be announced. We also know who, because we have a Commission to prevent corruption and we have a police force. We all know stories about what's supposed to happen, what's going on. Before that, it was a question of one of our colleagues we wanted to protect. We don't want to protect anyone. Here we are all exactly the same and condemn all such acts, but – to return to your recommendation now – they are not the Government and the Ministry of Crime and Corruption who should investigate and prosecute. If you find them, you have to report them, you have to file a criminal complaint, which is what I will come to, and the Ministry of Health has done in certain cases. And that's it. Are we critical enough? Do we, through the members of the health - care councils, be sufficiently vigilant over the operations of these public health institutions? Now that's an old discussion. The fact is, everything that's going on in a hospital, a health home, an institute, anywhere, is responsible for first management. Heads of departments, management, this is what the Directors-General says, and eventually members of the Health Services Councils. Completely by the same analogy as we have the responsibility of members of the supervisory boards of companies. We know that they are legally responsible for the damage caused by their property. Let us leave no doubt how many court proceedings have ended up in such a way that their property has actually been taken away from them, but this is a matter for another committee or for another meeting with another address. Once again, I stress the responsibility of the boards and the responsibility of the councils, that is to say the members of the councils, of these public health institutions. When we make order there, of course, the system down there will work significantly better, because the fish always stinks at the head, because we know that. Once again, if such actions are taking place, they take place in individual departments and can always take place only with the silent or loud consent of the Director. Let this be clear to all, so who is the first to blame and the first to be called upon and to whom such requests must be directed. Next. As far as the work of the NPU, the police, the prosecutor's office is concerned, we can have every opinion on the effectiveness of this, as to how many judicial epilogues there are for individual corruption cases, this can be debated. Alone in this place, as probably most of you, with the final result below the line certainly I am not satisfied. However, it is necessary to know that the authorities are probably doing well, that certain procedures are still open and I do not want to doubt our police, the prosecution, the NPU, that they are not doing their job well. I believe they're doing it well, but let's wait for the final results. It should be mentioned what this government and this ministry have done in order to reduce corruption in health care, it is said that corruption risks are being reduced, better said. One is a system of common public procurement for certain medicines, now preparing for certain medical devices. The common public procurement has also been organised for equipment in these newly created emergency centres, where, among other things, a lot of money has been saved, we are talking about millions of euros. Thus, this is one of the measures taken by this Government, the Ministry, precisely in order to reduce the impact of certain individuals who have been involved in the preparation of tenders until then, in the selection of those who have applied for a specific invitation to tender, but within this area there may be certain corruption risks. This government and this ministry have, as far as this is concerned, taken appropriate action in this area. Furthermore, what the MJU does, i.e. centralisation of information technology, also applies to the health sector. We know that there are many kinds of software in a health institution, which is certainly an anomaly and a potential overpayment of these services. However, this is regulated by centralising this information technology and unifying this software, which once again eliminates corruption risks in this area. Furthermore, I mentioned earlier the responsibility of members of the boards of institutions. Last year, the Ministry prepared a protocol on the selection of candidates for members of the Councils of Public Health Institutions, which clearly identifies the competences that this member of the Board of the Institute must have. Among other things, in addition to the field of health legislation and the health system, it must also be aware of the economy, namely business, costs, balance sheets and so on. Until then, we had no protocol and there were people in the sacred institutions who, to put it mildly, did not belong there. They may have been in the past, but not during our term of office, named there on the political line, but they did their job as they did. Because all these things we're talking about are 2014 and back. So they probably weren't doing their job right. As far as certain guidelines are concerned, we have already commented several times. At this point, however, I would point out some interesting phenomenon – for every matter that happens in UKC Ljubljana – matters that are certainly worth discussing, I do not mention this – as soon as it happens, we have a request for a meeting of the Committee the following day and, as in this case, also a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Let's do it twice. However, it is interesting that we know what is happening in UKC Maribor, we know what lack of anesthesiologists is there, we know that the problem has now been raised by traumatologists, but these requirements for a meeting to address this area of course were not. We don't have to be scientists to know why it wasn't. Who is the director of UKC Maribor? Mr. Beerman. Who's Mr. Beer? A prominent member of your SDS party, even a candidate in the mayoral elections. If you have the same criteria for all, then I would expect you at that time to convene a committee meeting on this subject, regarding the UKC Maribor issue, but this did not happen. We don't have to guess why again. Let's move on. My colleague Zorčič mentioned earlier that we have also changed the Penal Code, so that the prosecution and functioning of the police and the prosecution are significantly easier, so that persecution of serious economic crime is easier. Finally, I might also respond to the claims of certain colleagues and colleagues who discussed ahead of me. My colleague Bratušek explained what was done in her mandate when she was the Prime Minister of the Government and for half a year she held the Minister of Health. Among other things, you also mentioned the signing of contracts for all emergency centres, the general public contract and so on. You further said that it is unacceptable for Slovenia to pay EUR 1300, which costs EUR 460 and so on. Now I could challenge you. But I am not asking you a question, but I am simply stating as the fact that, for example, in one of the Slovenian hospitals in your time, there was an invitation to purchase an X-ray with a footnote – and this was the trap – that a guarantee must be given for five years. I'm a layman, but I think some serious device has to work for five years, and with that, some serious producer of course should probably not have any problems. But what happened? The result of this good call is that this X-ray cost 450 000 euros and otherwise costs 220 000 euros. That says we got one X-ray instead of two. Why is that, I don't know, but I'm sure it can't be very clear. Come in. Comrade Godec, you said that SMC spoke differently than SD and Desus. Once again, everyone here, as far as corruption is concerned, is thinking exactly the same and we want to react the same way. When I used to represent the position of the Group of Members, I spoke exclusively about your proposal and not about the content of the explanation you have put forward for this proposal. We're on exactly the same shores here. When we come up with common solutions, you ask yourself. I would very much like to take some common solutions, but in this phenomenon that we had, say, last month when we were talking about a law that is not yet, of course, on your initiative, it is difficult to find common solutions, if you understand me. It's over. Colleague Bah Žibert, you're citing some statistics, you're basically deceiving. You're saying we're dead because of cancer at the top of the other countries. One thing needs to be asked first or foremost. Slovenia has three screening programmes – Zora, Dora and Svit. We know what kind of cancer covers any of these programs. These programmes are free of charge for all participants. This year, the number of those participating in or participating in these programmes will increase. The response of those invited to submit samples or to be investigated is relatively poor. Of course, this particular form of cancer determines when it is too late, and therefore mortality is what it is. However, we live in society and the way of life is such that these diseases will be increasingly sorry, but I stress that the state is doing everything possible to determine certain types of cancer in time. However, if cancer is detected in time, it is also likely that it will heal. What you're saying is, of course, misleading. On the other hand, it might be possible to highlight another statistic if we are already going to statistics, that Slovenia is the first or lowest infant mortality rate. Far ahead of all, including Western and Scandinavian countries. If we're going to get statistics, then let's be realistic about both wages. In short, this government and the Ministry of Health are doing what is within their competence, I stress the powers, because this was the main failure of your recommendation because you imposed something on the government and the Ministry that they are not competent at all, for example, because they are law enforcement authorities, management agencies and so on. Not to expose this unconstitutional of yours again. Yes, it is an unconstitutional proposal that "for the sake of impartiality until the end of the investigation, all persons involved in the procurement of medical devices and leasing equipment" cannot do so without a legal conviction. [[..]] Neither can the National Assembly, the Ministry, the Government or you, the proponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u85	First thing I saw as a proponent was a mag. Alenko Bratusek. A replica? Then first the replica, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u86	Mr. Zorman, precisely because of such things as you mentioned, let's say one X-ray instead of two, we suggested calling this meeting. That's what we're telling you from making a reference to today. No, you prefer to point your finger at everyone around you, like you and I would support the conclusions and put an end to it together. In view of what you have just said, I hope that you will write a criminal complaint immediately after this, send it to the police and announce a crime service because you said that you did. Right away. That is precisely why we have proposed to convene this meeting. By the way, there's a committee ahead of each session. They were not specifically convened by the Committee and the meeting of the National Assembly, and after a year and a half in this State Assembly, "the Hudimans" could already know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u87	There's no replica on the replica. Ms Jelka Godec has the floor as a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u88	Mr. Zorman, I'd like to ask you a question, and then you can answer it. Did you report to the law enforcement institutions of a minister you accused at the previous meeting that he was giving concessions in a public-private partnership overnight on the basis of knowledge? Did you press charges? You're not. We're waiting because that's how it's supposed to work. That's what you're teaching us today. I will keep asking you this question because last time you made a serious accusation at the expense of the minister – you do not need to stress which minister – who was supposed to leave because he was doing so. You didn't press charges, and we should do it. And we will also, because we have also tabled an investigative committee in this area today, because the coalition was not willing to cooperate, was not prepared to accept certain of our recommendations and we were forced to do so. So, we're moving from words to actions. And you're just talking, with no proof. As far as the meeting is concerned, my colleague Bratuškova has already told you. I'm here for a year and a half, first term, but I get it, old man, obviously not yet. As far as UKC Maribor is concerned, Mr. Zorman, you are mistaken. We've called the meeting. The meeting was 12. 2. on the subject of norms and standards in health care. We wanted to call her in Maribor, and unfortunately she was here, but she was. The main topic was the problem of specialists or specialists in UKC Maribor. Did you discuss anything there? Did you say anything there? Did you give solutions? Did you say out loud that Mr. Pivec is from SDS? Is he walking your memory? 12. 2. Given your debate on how many meetings we refer to on the subject of health care, you are obviously terribly poor to have such opposition and you have to sit here every Friday at two o'clock. You don't have to. You don't have to. You can give your mandate back and say you can't do this because the opposition is impossible because it is convening an extraordinary meeting for every issue. Yeah, I'm sorry, but at least we're having a meeting, because otherwise we wouldn't be going to a meeting last year. I've been doing an analysis for a month, if we didn't have a reference, I could be home all the time, working on the field, preparing things, legislation and so on, because the coalition didn't call a meeting. Now you're in trouble because you have so much work to do for the session. That's why you have a salary. The UKC Maribor was called. The next thing about UKC Maribor is that we do not hide it in this reference or in these recommendations. No, no, no. For the last time, even on the committee, I also highlighted UKC Maribor, where Mr Pivec, former director of UKC Ljubljana and all the directors were there. We're not hiding anything. When you say you have to edit the Holy Office first. I agree. Now tell me how you arranged the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana when the President of the Council of the Institute said he would resign if Mr Baricič did not receive the support of the Government. I agree with you, Mr. Zorman, this is of course the first thing. But these are unrealistic statements that if he doesn't get it, he'll back off. He's still there. He's still there. Speaking of leadership, I also have to agree with Mr Webro when he said that the management of these public institutions of trust must be valuable and so on. But remember Mr. Baricic's case. Mr Baričič has become a leader without presenting the program, we can say overnight, as you say. Did you arrange that? No, no, no. Head through the wall to the government. If Mr Baričič is not confirmed and I will resign, the President said. He's still there. The world of the institution is still the way it is. Don't talk to me about the competences of those members of the board of institutions you set up, because you don't set them up politically, but professionally. Because you said they were political in the past, and now we have experts. So we don't start on Dars, NLB, DUTB, SDH and so on. Mr. Zorman, think a little before you start teaching us things that you do wrong yourself. You can't tell a kid he can't lick, but you're dragging a big lollipop along. It's not working. Or gum, whatever. Therefore, the Ministry has these powers to arrange for the Council of the Institute and I am very sorry, but I must say here that the Minister has not reacted in the case of the Council of the Institute and the President of the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana. It's not. That's what we have to say. That's not what we're deceiving. I agree with you, once again, that the Institute's Council needs to be regulated, that directors in public institutions must also be trustworthy and that those top regulators of this systemic corruption are. Isn't it? How, though, if we had such a case when the minister in every way wanted to set up a man without a program to lead the largest healthcare institution in Slovenia. Such a man without a program in every way for guidance. I don't believe that trust would be a valuable guide. As for the fact that you said that colleague Anja Bah Žibert is deceiving cancer – she is not deceiving. Statistics on the day of the fight against cancer have shown that we have grown in these percentages that 32% of people die of cancer. This isn't a delusion. Please don't talk about it. We also have a program. I also asked the minister the question of why this increase in mortality occurred in a year, and she answered me, but there was no error. Please look at the statistics. It's not a delusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u89	Replica, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I didn't want to come by, but I have to replicate because my colleague Godec misunderstood me. I have a very good memory of what I say and what I don't say. Now I'm going to tell you what I said at that session when we talked about your minister or your minister in the then government. I also said why he had to leave because he was even too liberal and even too aggressive towards the privatisation of Slovenian health care. This had nothing to do with the concession. However, as far as his concessions are concerned, this is public knowledge, as you base the meetings on newspaper articles, so that I can use this information in my statement that 50 concessions were actually awarded overnight. But I told my friends that maybe I'd like to point out to my friends. I didn't say he gave them to his friends. That's a big difference. And unfortunately, I cannot agree that you are calling a meeting for every issue. As I said, you didn't call for UKC Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u91	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Ivan Prelog and Joza Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have been in this national assembly for about 19 months. At the beginning of this term, we have found that most of us are new. After 19 months, I hope that we all understand what the coalition means in this reference or in this national assembly, what the opposition means, what the Government means and, of course, what the judicial branch of power means. Today, when I listen to this debate, I feel somehow, or I am sure that we do not all understand it. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, it has been heard quite a few times today that it is a bit wrong to talk about systemic corruption. System, this word system, system corruption I'm very worried about. Of course he's been in health for years. I know a health director in the Republic of Slovenia. When I drove to this meeting this morning, I called him, told him that today the point is systemic corruption in health and, of course, asked him about his opinion. Maybe just one of his experiences. Last year, they bought a defibrillator, and when the vendors went to it, it was estimated at 32 000 euros. Of course, this director then made it clear to the tenderers that he had the means to purchase 20,000, and, of course, without major negotiations, this defibrillator bought less than 20,000 euros, with only one request that the person who sold it not tell anyone. When we talk about corruption, I and, of course, the proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party firmly believe that it is still right that there is a systemic word. Many times, even yesterday, we listened throughout the day and even part of the night to the opposition’s discontent with the opposition to convene some meetings that were unjustifiable. I must say that today I spoke with a gentleman who has been living in Germany for 51 years, who was accompanying this meeting yesterday and asked me if this country is owned by a minister. That was yesterday's behavior. Many times I feel that this is the way we act when we talk about health care. The fact is that in the Republic of Slovenia we have exceptional health professionals, that we have very good nurses, doctors, but the problem is of course money. I don't think anyone needs to be a great expert to know that the money problem is that in health care there's not enough money to keep people waiting for interventions for months. A lot of those who wait, sometimes they don't even have an intervention. When we say that there is no money, it is a fact — and we do not need to be experts — that there is strong corruption. I do not think it is the purpose of today's session to determine which director is a member of any of the political parties in Slovenia. If that's what you understand, then you've got it all wrong. That's a fact. If we do not hope to go from left to right as elected constituency to this problem, we must tell our constituents and voters that they were in the wrong when we were elected. Today we can talk about the branches, we can talk about the Minister doing well, and what more can we say. We can say that the opposition unjustifiably convenes the sessions, we can say all of that. Maybe it would be nice if we took a walk after this session and asked which of the patients what they thought. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that we were all aware that when we went to the state elections in 2014, if we are elected, we will be able to take responsibility. To me, one of the Ministers of Health in the Republic of Slovenia once said that corruption in health is that it can be solved, but that we must all do it. Who is this debate going on today, especially from my right, by the year? Those who have been draining our health care for a number of years to the detriment of our citizens and citizens who need medical attention. I understand that they negotiate with each other when it comes to a large object in Maribor or in Koper. That's where I understand politics. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't understand that you are 60 new people, but we're sitting on the same "whats" in our own words, I apologize. Yesterday, there were two letters from a law firm. This is just an indication that these references to the meeting and also the appointment of a committee to deal with this corruption are justified. There'll be a lot of painful cuts. It's gonna be very embarrassing, that's a fact. But if we do this today, we're so close to the goal that maybe tomorrow will be better. But if we are discussing that this is pointless, that it is some whim of the opposition, that we do not even know the matter of speaking today, who is the director of one of the largest centres in Slovenia, I think we have entered a dead end. Once again, we've been going to this hall for 19 months, we've had 19 months, we've had a well-respected coalition to change things on this segment. As a result, there are no results from today's meeting. Believe it or not, even if it hurts any of us in the future, we will not give up here because it seems right for us to go once and prevent money from draining from Slovenian health care into our private pocket. Or it will be necessary in this great hall to draw one big board and draw a network with names and surnames to see all Slovenia and anyone who needs a doctor or medical care today or tomorrow. Let's not be afraid of those names. I am sure that no one owes these people anything, but they have exhausted Slovenian health care for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u93	The word has Mr Ivan Prelog, to be prepared by Dr. László Göncz and mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u94	Thank you. All in attendance, all in attendance! The presentation said that the members of the Health Committee had rejected the proposal without explaining why. That's not true. A broad debate was held on the subject of corruption, twice in November, when the issue of systemic corruption was discussed in health care, and in the previous week, when this proposal was addressed. The proposal for a recommendation was rejected and the debate also explained why. These recommendations are controversial because they relate to cases where corruption is largely part of the responsibility of the management of public health institutions. The management of these institutions should respond appropriately if they assess that there is a suspicion of a criminal offence. However, the Ministry is already carrying out its part of its responsibility, as the Government is actively engaged in the fight against corruption, and a programme of measures has also been adopted. The recommendations were rejected for one more reason. It is written that the government should suspend all persons involved in the procurement of medical devices, which we find impossible in real life. For we know that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. It is therefore right that corruption is dealt with by the authorities responsible for it. The recommendations were rejected because they show a lack of knowledge of the basic competences of state institutions. I warn or want to and expect more focus in public procurement for the implementation of infrastructure facilities for health care because there are enormous potential for corruption in this area, which I have already pointed out in the past. Members of the Modern Centre Party certainly want more cases reported to await a judicial epilogue and to also establish a higher level of responsibility so that people can also report these crimes and establish a culture of zero tolerance for corruption. This is a long run, and I believe that the government is setting good points for us to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u95	The word has Mr László Göncz, prepare to be mag. Alenka Bratušek and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Many words were used today about whether a meeting was needed or not. I don't think that's the basic point. This is always a matter of interpretation, given whether we are looking at it from the point of view of opposition or position. It is essential that the health issue in the last three mandates is always at the table of this Parliament or is present as one of the biggest problems of this society. Nevertheless, we must stress that there are certain matters and certain tasks that have been done properly, and there is no doubt that the Minister present here is also of interest. I can certainly mention here the network of emergency centres that is now in place. Clearly, positive things have been done, but in general, especially in view of the fact that this is also mentioned in the application for this meeting, we must find that there are unfortunately still no systemic solutions and that corruption is present, which is two main elements or two of the main motives that, in my opinion, require all of us as parliamentarians to keep this in mind and to put pressure on it in the most positive sense of the word. I don't think there's any way we can stay calm until things move around here. I see that the resolution on the health plan will also be on the agenda at the next meeting, in March. I hope that this will also be an opportunity for the actual reform of the health system to begin more intensively than has been done so far. I will not talk about specific cases of corruption, because today this has already been mentioned many times already. But one fact is that this corruption is both quantitative and inherently strong and entangled in Slovenian society. I don't think there's anything you can do about it. Parliament simply has no other option or solution than to constantly pressure others, whether it is an executive branch of power or whether it is a judicial branch of authority. In a positive sense of the word, not by reaching into it, but by reminding us that more must be done in this area and steps in a positive direction. Let me mention two more things. One is what Mr Gantar stressed, which I highly appreciate and, according to my opinion in recent years, has also been able to understand as a minister the whole of the issue, which he has mentioned today, that we cannot possibly expect without additional means of substantive progress. However, I fear that these additional resources will not, given the financial situation of the State, be, at least not as much as they would like to be, so it is of particular importance that the economic trends are positive, but not about this today. In particular, I would stress that those opportunities and opportunities, as Mr Gantar has mentioned, exist within the system and are not sufficiently exploited. I think that this should certainly be the first step, because, given everything we have heard about health care in the past, we know – some of you who are more involved, who are also working in the Health Committee, know even more that there are still some reserves, especially in the field of public procurement. It's still a matter of my opinion that it hasn't moved significantly. Finally, let me point out that the ministry is certainly working hard, but it is not necessary to constantly point out that we are deepening our search for relief and, as I have already pointed out, I hope that we will reach at least some systemic solutions by the end of this term. I emphasize the systemic nature of solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u97	The word is "ma'am mag." Alenka Bratušek, prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much again. When I listen to today's debate, I feel like this is a little bit of a bad world. We listen to the evidence that those of us who signed this are guilty of everything that has happened in the past, but respected colleagues and colleagues of SMC, Desus and SD, we have signed the proposal to investigate these things, and you are against it. Who can understand that? We're the ones for it, and you're against it. It's hard to understand. Human resources issues aren't your problem. Lack of money is not your problem. Health corruption is not your problem. Apparently, there's no problem in health care. It's all the way it's supposed to be. Nice to meet you. All I'm surprised is that the doctors' statement that nurses aren't satisfied that waiting lines are today a few percent longer than they were a year ago. If you're running the government and you're part of a ruling coalition, you have to deal with the problems and solve them. We're trying to help you do this, and you're kind of beating it up. I don't have a problem standing here every week, signing it first if you wake up and finally realize that it has to be done. The easiest way to end this is if we all go from left to right, and that's modern in between. Everybody. But apparently you have different interests. We can ask you, call you, help you, but the responsibility for health care is already in your hands for 533 days. That's a fact. Of course you can't get past the accusations, but okay, this is your practice and your political culture. These were ministerial trips. I agree that there has been a short ministerial tour of the Minister of Health, which I have proposed. But, dear colleagues from the SMC, do you know how long your Minister of Education, Claudius Markesh, was? Two days. Dear colleague, two days. We also have Minister candidate Gojk Koprivac, Minister of Economy, who did not last until the hearing. So much for ministerial trips. Dear colleagues, first of all, you need to place it at the home threshold so that you can point to others with your finger. Once again, we are the ones asking to end corruption. And you're the one who says you don't have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u99	Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! In our party, even though the issue of health at the meetings of the National Assembly is already the whole mandate at all the meetings of the Health Committee, we note that there is a need for health reform in order to substantially amend legislation in this area. We warn of irregularities, affairs and corruption. And we've come to this corruption today. If I freshen up the memory a little bit, we saw in the debate, at least here on this side we found a fellow on the right there with a little bit of memory. We have proposed 12 extraordinary meetings in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the following topics. The last, which has been or is still being addressed today, is recommendations on systemic corruption in health. The issue of standards and standards in health, UKC Maribor and lack of personnel, Mr. Zorman, 12. The second meeting was held. Systemic corruption in health, November 2015. October 2015, regulation of the situation in children's heart surgery at UKC Ljubljana, September 2015 situation at UKC Ljubljana, euthanasia at UKC Ljubljana, problem of ensuring the health care of the local population in the event of the arrival of many migrants and could also list, and I do not want to tire with this. I think that the fact that we are all quite united here today is that there is systemic corruption in health care. Why? Because the legislation allows this because it allows the system, because it is in the interests of individuals, society and the state. Mr. Zorman, I'm surprised you said in your position this morning that there is no corruption in health care. You were just talking, I wrote down some corruption, but I'm saying there's systemic corruption in health. Let us see exactly what systemic corruption is. Systemic corruption is corruption within the entire system. The concept represents a situation in which a company or state operates only in a corrupt way. When it comes to this, it is no longer possible to fight corruption in a normal way, but more radical prevention actions are needed. It is said that individuals, society and the state are involved in this corruption, and it is undoubtedly a matter of systemic corruption. As I said before, in our party, we constantly point out that there is something to be done in the field of health legislation, and I think that if there was more to be done in this area, we might be able to detect a little less corruption or other corruption, that is bureaucratic, small and so forth as we know it. I must say, Your Honor, I'm a little disappointed in the introduction. I expected you to come with some response to our meeting today, but I had a feeling that you were reporting to us here in the National Assembly some report on your work for the past period. I'm sorry. In view of what you've stated, I will also indicate what we've dealt with in this temple of democracy in your field. Regulations on emergency medical care, we know this, the Law on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body, the Law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Medicinal Products and, of course, this famous analysis on the health system in Slovenia. When I was doing this analysis of the health system in Slovenia, for which we paid EUR 360 000, I have to say that I have already said on the parental committee itself that I am not doing something together here. You say - and this is also mentioned here, I think on the third or the first page - that on the basis of the teleanalysis you ordered last June, a resolution on the national health plan was prepared and this resolution was transmitted to Members last June. It is true that this resolution was then discussed or in a public debate until August of last year, but as a proposal, it was transmitted on our bench in December. This analysis, which is supposed to be the basis for the resolution, we received this analysis in January on a bench in the National Assembly and we discussed it in early February. I don't understand this, but I didn't get any satisfactory answers on the parental committee either. If you praise this analysis that much or what results we've come up with, I think you're saying that we're somehow on the average of comparable countries, but we're at the top of some indicators, but here I have to fix you. The OECD analysis shows otherwise. But it looks like we're somewhere on average, but in most of the indicators, I'm sorry, I'm going to fix myself, and in a lot of the indicators, we're all at the bottom. We're clean at the bottom. I also stress that the OECD has also not been provided with data on long waiting species. I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about it based on documents. The fact is, as I have already said, that the whole system allows for these irregularities and that the country does nothing in the field of legislation. I've also told you what was done in all this time, it's been done in a year and a half. Since the Ministry does not pursue legislation or health reform more systematically, then we have a situation like this, the real corruption we are talking about today is systemic corruption. I will point out here once again, although I do not know how many times it has already been pointed out today, even the words spoken by the Director-General at the Commission's meeting on public finances control. I don't know. I'm kind of asking the question here about this systemic corruption. Today we have been discussing in this assembly somehow all together, except for individuals, that systemic corruption in health exists. Now I don't know if we really want to do anything in this area. Whose business is that? Or do we just close our eyes so that if it's been that long, let's keep it that way. I must say that I am also very surprised by this report by the Health Committee, which, in the last paragraph, says that the members of the coalition at the parental meeting of the Health Committee believe that the issue that the applicants wanted to raise is multifaceted and that the problem of health corruption in political treatment is cyclical when the debate begins on how much money health is actually needed. Creating illusions that by eliminating corruption, we can offer people what we promise – public health, broad access to services and development – is misleading people. This is written in the report of the parental committee. If you think this is a reference to our meeting to mislead people, I think you're very wrong, especially on the side of the coalition, but I think our viewers, if they follow this program, will also create a picture. It's really sad to be so alerted to all these affairs and corruption. I don't know if we just have that kind of accident or happiness, or if we're just reading or you're not reading anything. Since the second half of last year, we can monitor in the media and in newspapers a variety of affairs, suspected corruption. If you didn't have access or you didn't want access, I'll read some addresses now. At least 15 credits to foreign and domestic accounts, next to cash. The doctor says he's not getting a lot of freaks. How did hospitals act to ensure fair purchases? All the details of the suspected corruption between doctors. A pharmacist who's supposed to be carrying cash for three months. Dr. Asks him to know when he should be told. Doctors, suspected bribes: What kind of business do they drive? The NPU, due to corruption in the health sector, has given five more people a hand. Slovenian hospitals EUR 196 million to the owners of Mladina. Health corruption is still very much present. I will not list any further, nor can I finish, but certainly, dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that there is systemic corruption in health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. This fellow on the right -- I recognized myself, that could be me. Earlier, you said that in the position of the Group of Members at the beginning of this meeting this morning at ten this morning, I said that there was no corruption. I don't know if you were listening. I spoke for twenty minutes earlier about corruption and that we are all in favour of eradicating it, only that each of us has its own powers, the government and the ministry have one, the other, the police or third-party law enforcement authorities. And I'll read it to you to substantiate my claim. I wrote the following: "Proposers obviously did not read the definition of what systemic corruption is. I cannot agree at all that we are talking about systemic corruption, because this means that this corruption would not work at all in all areas of Slovenian health and without this corruption. We all know this is not true, so your claims are already exaggerated at the beginning." Then I add: "In doing so, we must stress that we do not deny that corruption in Slovenian health care is also present, as is the presence of many others elsewhere." I am further talking about the fact that the government and the ministry have already taken quite a few measures and so on. All of us, once again, all of us agree that corruption must be eradicated at the start. Some of the measures taken by the Government have already been taken, and it is up to all of us and all of us in the health sector to help with our personal engagement and example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u104	Hello! We are at the end of today's debate, which we have lovingly resumed and already had on the committee. I told myself about the candidates how they prepared themselves for the meeting or what it was meant to be. To be honest, we would, of course, suggest certain solutions, not those that actually lead to conflict. Besides, they're nice, we have to admit that. Let's find those who steal who have a hand in honey, investigate and so on. I think we're all in for it, actually. But the suggestions that have been made in the recommendations themselves are in fact indicative of ignorance or the deliberate placement of individual organs even in illegal acts. The other thing that surprises me is that today everyone on the proposer's side is saying that they have proposed certain solutions and the coalition has refused to accept them. They are repeating their work this morning that, in fact, by rejecting the recommendations, she said there was no corruption in health care. I strongly oppose this, of course, because we have already made it very clear on the Committee itself that a number of them would even be supported and accepted within the recommendations. What, though, did the proposer actually do? All he's been yelling at today is that we didn't really want to support the recommendations. Those who know the rules of procedure know that the recommendations are adopted in a package rather than as individual recommendations. They know this well, so I am surprised that the proponents have not actually proposed proposals for conclusions that could be voted on individually, perhaps even reformed and made legal, but not that we have reached the point where they actually propose – let's be honest – that "the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the institutions suspend all persons involved in the procurement of medical devices and leasing equipment due to impartiality until the end of the investigation." Do you know what that means? Firstly, it means that either the Minister or the Government, however they recommend it, should first find something that the law enforcement authorities have not identified because proceedings are under way, simply recall or suspend the Director of Public Institutions. Tell me one marriage or at least the marriage ground that the government or the minister have the opportunity to do so. He can't. He just can't. You're forcing the authorities to commit an illegal act. That was your recommendation. However, since the recommendation was written in principle, take it or leave it, so all the recommendations you wrote and you wrote six of them, it was simply impossible to confirm such recommendations. I agree, for example, with the recommendation under point 3: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, present to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia an analysis of the effects of the joint public health procurement measure envisaged for 2015. As far as I know, the Secretary of State has even told the board that this is being prepared. We'd be happy to accept it, there's no problem at all, but it just doesn't work, and you know it. Who's here to screw up, your professional services or yourself, or whether you've done this on purpose, I don't know, or I won't find out, or speculate. It is only unworthy that you today read to the coalition that it does not want to accept this and that because it has not accepted this, it is really a recognition that there is no corruption in health care. There's corruption in health care, just like it is in all segments. I just have to say that where there's a man, there's a chance someone's doing something. The opportunity has always made a thief, and it always will be, but we can't do what laws, I don't know what measures, we'll always have that. However, the problem is whether we in society are prepared to raise this quality increase to such a level that it will be accepted socially, that it is a criminal offence and that this process should be reduced to a minimum. As I've been able to see from the media and what you've announced in the meantime, you're going to demand an investigative commission, but you're going to follow a pattern to deal with just one case -- you've taken these vascular resistors -- by proving, on one occasion, that there's some corruption here. I ask you whether you will determine the political responsibility or whether we will go to the investigators of the crimes that the law enforcement authorities must do on official duty. I remind you once again that anyone who knows anything has heard anything, even the clues or documents or the reason that he has evidence of a crime, is under an official obligation to report it himself. We don't need an investigative commission, we don't need anything. Go ahead and report it! We need to do this now. Did any of you do it? Has anyone reported anyone? At least I don't know from the official records that any of the Members would report. So let's not get carried away. But what is more important to me is that, as the National Assembly, as a policy in the country, we still have a problem that we have to solve, and these are, of course, existing institutions working in this area. I have also said that I agree with the fact that law enforcement authorities work in certain cases either too slowly or — I don't know — now I speculate — they don't have enough knowledge, which I'm less and less doubting, but certainly too slowly and, more importantly, we even have an organ that is very problematic to me right now. Those of you who are members of the Health Committee remember that on the Health Committee where the KPK President was present, I even told him that this body has become unworthy and that it is our duty to act – either change the law or change the powers, or do anything to be effective. What happened? Instead of understanding this, the KPC President was insulted and called a press conference the next day because I had told him that the OECD report had, of course, failed the KPC, that it simply did not carry out what it could actually do, in accordance with its powers. And he tricked me into allowing himself and not reading that the Government had actually adopted a general document on corruption in Slovenia, to work against the KPK. As long as we have this way of thinking about playing with each other, instead of looking for solutions, we have a serious problem because it seems to fit someone. We all know that the KPK has been fed up, that everyone has left, everyone who has worked until yesterday and has been credible, that they are still fighting there within the KPK, and that they are in fact having a problem with themselves, not with corruption, which is their preventive and, of course, also their moral duty under the law. That's the problem. The next thing I saw, which is very clear — who by law is obliged to care for the legality of work in institutions. Management of public institutions. The Director is obliged to organise the work, to supervise the work if he finds one or the other, to change the organisation, to propose amendments if he finds the crime, to report the crime if he identifies systemic problems that make it impossible for him to function normally in this public institution, and, of course, to propose systemic changes. Here comes the Ministry of Health. I don't know if the Minister's got any suggestions. I'm not even competent to point that out. Is there a need for changes in public institutions? Personally, I think that and at least here, the opposition and the coalition are united that changes are needed. Also in the field of public institutions. We all put our hopes in public procurement. Sorry, we changed the Public Procurement Act three months ago, upgraded it, and changed it in the hope that things would change, but today we are saying that this law sucks or that everything is wrong on public contracts. Moreover, some even propose a special law. This surprises me because even those who know this damn well and know that this is not possible because we are within the EU are proposing it. So if I go back to these vein braces, a special law that regulates these veins, I'm going to say metaphorically that we could even directly order at some of the lowest possible prices and attach ourselves to some countries, so that we actually have some advantage. But you're all forgetting something. Of course, we're small, there's only 2 million of us, and if we want to do big orders, so we're going to lower the price, of course, it means we have to negotiate directly. Here, of course, I see the task of directors of public institutions when they are making public calls, that they are too active to invite, when there is a call for proposals, even those who do not subscribe to individual products, capitals and so on, whatever is already ordered. But, of course, the problem – on the committee we talked a lot about – is that those producers who have a low price, if I make comparisons with what some of you have mentioned today, that twice as cheap a vein support is ordered in Germany, will never sell at the same price on a public invitation. This is for one simple reason because they signed a contract with their representative who operates in the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, they also signed a clause that they can only order through it. That's the problem. Of course, it's also a negotiation phase and so on, but not just as we heard on the committee, to make a call first and then a public invitation, but if you see that you're not satisfied with the prices, then you're just going to order a little more directly to someone else. It's not working. It's just not working. Such a decision would fall on the State Audit Commission and is a school case to fall quickly. To say that this is so with one law is simply not true. The next thing that still seems important to me is whether we have reserves or, most of the time, what is obvious is that if there was no corruption in health care, then suddenly there would be plenty and enough money in health care. Excuse me, I have a very clear case ahead of me. I took a Vienna hospital, which is, say, comparable to the University Clinical Center, and let me make a comparison. The number of beds they have in the Clinical Center is 2166, in this similar comparable establishment in Vienna is 2112 hospital beds. There are 159 000 outpatient visits throughout 2015 – I will round up not to say the whole number – in Austria a million 146 000. So we're here somewhere, in fact, comparable. If we move forward, the number of hospital patients is 99,000 at the Clinical Center in 2015, at the Vienna hospital 105 000. The total income in the Clinical Center is 453 million, and at this same clinic in Vienna it's a billion. Once more for the same number of beds, for the same number of patients and so on. Now I ask myself - not to kill you with all these numbers - whether we are so clever because there is more money, but prices are comparable or even cheaper after this same explanation. Either they don't have corruption there, which I doubt, there's definitely some corruption there, or they have easier jobs there because they don't need to steal turtles, but we have to have corrupt people steal turtles and there's competition in the Roma. We have a serious problem. I am confident that even if all corruption were wiped out, we would still have too little money in health care to satisfy all the needs we have in health care. We have to accept once that we have to stop operating on numbers such as: in Slovenian health care there are 600 million stolen and corrupt first, and then one year later we have seen that this is a little bit of an exaggerated number, and we have reduced it to 350 million. I'm sorry, I just don't believe it. However, I believe that corruption is, and this moment is simply, immeasurable, in terms of how much that money is. We will simply have to deal with one fact as well. We only have the budget in health care that we have. Certain transfers within the budget will be necessary. It's just, excuse me, in this room, we're going to argue about who's going to have the upper hand — health, social, safety, human rights or whatever. We're gonna have to do something. Definitely, however, we will no longer be able to insist on a budget where it is only indexed every year and is just doing a comparison of how many people had and who didn't last year. We will have to decide on the priorities of what is financed from the public treasury, what is what we will have to let go, change and put on the market, and what is what is necessary and simply necessary, which is 100 per cent to be financed. From here on out, of course, I am talking about the reform that awaits us. But reform is not done in one year, it cannot be done in one year. Anyone who explains, fantasises and collects political points because he says it can be done within one and a half years. In the previous government – that no one will tell me that I expect answers – I participated in the government of Alenka Bratušek. Since we had a signed coalition agreement for one year, we knew that it was impossible to carry out a health reform in one year and therefore we did not even hope to say out loud that we would carry out a health reform because it could not be done in one year. So please, let's stop using the National Assembly and the political scene to shout out how corruption is. It is corruption and we have zero tolerance for corruption. But that's not the only health problem. The problem is that we have an overcrowding basket, that we have a medical cash register, which dictates from itself and away from politics, how it will determine, pay and when it will pay, that we cannot even replace the director if we are not satisfied with him, because the insurance company and the insurance companies decide on it, not a policy that is ruling and responsible in the end and is guilty of everything that needs to be achieved. That's the main problem. All we do here is a masquerade and a forgery for the public, which gloats over it when it says, "Look, they can't fix anything." Sometimes it's better to keep quiet about what to prepare and do. The opposition, you have the right to monitor, criticize and make it very clear all the time. No one's defending you, and that's the way it is. However, do not generalise with the argument that it is all wrong in public procurement, that everything is wrong because of corruption and so on. Give us a chance if we've come up with an analysis to take another B step. I agree with someone who is not satisfied that this is not in three months, but a mandate does not last one year, but lasts four years. The budget is also clearly drawn. The budget has been adopted for two years, including the rebalans will, but there will be something else to change. It is therefore against us to have a zero attitude towards corruption, irresponsible from everyone in this Chamber. In the end, let me just add one more thing. People know that they pay contributions to health insurance and people know and are convinced that they have the right to treatment. They don't understand why we have waiting periods, and they don't understand why things have been going on for so many years. But we have had an impossible situation in Slovenia over the last six years in the field of health. It's a really impossible situation. No minister has lasted more than two and a half years. How can a minister – any government in which you and you had a minister who could not complete the mandate – make a serious change and have some critical distance to things that simply need to be changed? Doctors want to have higher wages, that's indisputable, nurses want to have higher wages, which is also indisputable, but money is only as much as it is. But we can't do just one segment because you know it's domino syndrome. When we raise our salaries to doctors, the nurses will have to raise their salaries, and in the end they won't have to pay for the services. Tell me how we're gonna handle this. But it is true, and I agree, and here I also call on the Minister, whom I believe he is aware of the responsibility, that certain things will still need to be clenched and moved forward. That could be our common ground. But I'm afraid I don't expect anything from the commission of inquiry myself because no one has ever brought anything. And you know it. All you know is that you're going to have some meetings and press conferences again, we're going to upset the public again, and at the end of the term of office, we're going to find that we haven't done anything with the investigative commission. I believe we can do a lot together, but we need to find a compromise on one thing. I believe that we all have the same goal, but there are different ways to achieve this goal. Let us deal once, and at least in the case of health care, which is the highest value in Slovenians and Slovenes, let us compromise once. Can we do that? I don't know. You'll tell.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u106	I would like to give a brief reply here to my colleague Möderndorfer. Talk about what chair he's sitting on. When he was with Mrs Bratušek, he rolled into the same horn as Mrs Bratušek, and he told the minister that he had to carry out the reform as soon as possible, otherwise nothing would happen. I will not forget those words, indeed, because they were so expressed from the heart at the beginning of the term. That he needs the support of the Prime Minister, otherwise he'll be fine. Now the reform is not to be implemented in one year and so on. The mandate lasts four years, but it's questionable because some people are changing chairs. Suddenly turn the board over here and I have to give criticism to the SMC, which criticises Mrs Bratušek that she is now turning things around and saying things differently than before. [[…]] You have a man inside who speaks differently now than before when he wasn't with you in the coalition. Comrade Möderndorfer, we're talking coalition, you've been in coalition for a few days or months, I'm sorry, I don't know exactly when. Don't be so hurt. But before you spoke almost as much as we did, we went apart in certain things, but in certain things we were quite together. I'm saying once again, you don't say any substantive matters. Turned the board three times. Now just tell me, how many times can I expect you to turn around? No, Jani, to address such words, first to reform immediately, and now to defend the Minister because you are sitting in a coalition. We are prepared to go together against corruption, but not in such a way as to get to the opposition, if it is her fault, and to dissect Comrade Zorčič all of our proposals, and precisely this proposal, which colleague Möderndorfer said is a good proposal, namely, to give an analysis, says that they have dissected it and that it is irrelevant. Thank God SMC has a little more different views in it now, so it won't be a counter-key machine.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u108	If anyone can't tell me anything – I'll say it out loud again, that things will be clear as a white day – is that the first day at the hearing session said that reform was necessary and that we should not hide behind words. I made that very clear, and I'm not running away from it at all. When I joined the coalition, and before I joined the coalition, I said twice, very clearly on the Health Committee, that I am glad that we are finally going to have to change certain things. I have another problem because there will be certain things, even within the government, because it is normal for different views to come up, to have to be cleared up. Minister Koprivnikar was pleased with the analysis and the conclusion that reform was not necessary and the Minister of Health made it clear that certain things would have to be changed, but slowly and as needed. Do you know what the problem is? I'll tell you what the problem is because some people don't want to understand it. The problem is money, and you know it. I'm not turning the board around, because I'm going to be very critical, and the secretary knows that. Unlike Alenka Bratusek and you, I know the health system a little better because at least I've been working at the hospital, and I know what's wrong. So much for that conversion. I don't flip, I stand by the words I say.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u109	Procedurally, Mr. Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. My proposal would be to draw the attention of my colleague Jani in particular to his implementation, in order to protect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Because I have to say that when they're listening to this for 20 minutes or half an hour, they're completely confused. Probably no one who's been monitoring the transmissions from the National Assembly is watching for the first time today. Those citizens concerned with health care and the future of Slovenia are always following up on this. Therefore, I ask you to warn Mr Jani that he does not change the board every five minutes because he misses them. First, he's wanted in the hall where he sits, accused by the opposition of attacking him, but he's been in the coalition for three weeks.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u111	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u112	Therefore, my proposal is to warn him not to flee the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u113	Dear Mr Bojan Podkorošek, this is his opinion on how he participates in the debate, is his business, the matter of the Member. We're moving on. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. Excuse me? Please don't jump into words. Procedural? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you have already dealt with what a procedural proposal was, you probably have enough time to look into the hall and actually see if all Members are acting in accordance with the rules of the National Assembly. If some people start smoking in here, others will do something else, it'll be impossible to work here. Take a look at the rules that apply to all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u115	I think I'm very right and I'm watching the hall. Whether someone smokes or doesn't smoke, I don't see it now. We'd like to continue now, please. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the word is also given to the representative of the Government and to both representatives of the proposer. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished Members! I listened carefully to this debate the whole time I was here. Several times the word systemic corruption has been used, and I am almost certain that what has also been seen from the debate is that everyone understands it a little in his own way. It has been found that you will probably be able to agree with me that systemic corruption or corruption in general is in Slovenian society. We can't deny it. I can tell you how I feel. In health care there are 3 billion 200 different interests, as much as – at least according to the latest data – turn money around. 2.4 or 2.5 billion from contributions through the Health Insurance Office, and then about 400 or 450 from supplementary insurance and what we give out of our pocket for health services. I understand you're worried. As Minister of Health, I am also deeply aware, from the beginning of the term of office, that we must do so with taxpayers' money, according to budgetary money, and of course also with public money, these are the contributions of all of us insured [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u117	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. The secretary speaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u118	which we pay in a health check. [[…]] I think these two categories need to be separated. Since I am a man of action with arguments, evidence and tangible results, I will briefly now tell you what I have done during this time. Madam President Bratušek said that today is perhaps 533 days of my term. Unfortunately, I don't have time to count my days, but I will therefore impose on you some very tangible and concrete measures, without a system law that limits systemic corruption. Public procurement first. Even before the government adopted the zero-corruption strategy and the common public procurement, the Ministry of Health, starting in 2011, has joined the first order for medicines for substances. Only 13 hospitals were admitted at the time, because all the others, all of them 26, did not want to or did not want to join this joint drug order, which somehow covered 65% of all drug consumption in hospitals. Let me tell you, we are talking about the interest that it took as many as 19 months for various complaints and objections from pharmaceutical companies before we were even able to open offers. This, of course, meant the withdrawal of this order, which was then successfully completed 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is true, as the committee secretary said, that we are preparing an analysis of this order for medicines from which we have learned a great deal, and that we will use all these useful guidelines or mannequins in the common public procurements that I spoke about at the beginning, so I would not repeat them. There were also savings, of course, and the analysis will also show that. That is, concrete evidence, results, evidentiary and financial evaluation. I think it's already part of a contribution to, if you want, controlling or minimizing corruption with regard to pharmaceutical products or medicines. By the way, let me say that the whole system was used to make sure that the drugs were not named, because we know that Lekadol is from Novartis, but only the components of medicines, such as paracetamol, were listed in the invitation to tender. In order not to immediately, at first sight, see who is producing this medicine. Another such specific example in public procurement is the implementation of emergency centres. Perhaps today we would have an extraordinary session of this Parliament to identify who is responsible for returning €42.8 million to the Cohesion Fund to the European Commission. When I entered my term of office, of course, I got such a situation at the emergency centres that it was a big question whether we would even be able to complete them by the end of last year. Maybe we should discuss this today. If I had not made some very sharp, rigorous moves, also replaced some individuals and supervisors, then these emergency centres with the most modern equipment today Slovenia would not have. Centres that are envied by many countries in Europe. By the way, we, alone at the Ministry of Health, have launched a joint public invitation for 7 emergency centres with specific equipment – these are ultrasounds, magnetic resonances, operating tables and so on – where we have saved by making more than 30% of the technical standards. Since the original offer of €8.9 million, we have paid €5.6 million for this state-of-the-art equipment. All with a team and coworkers at our ministry, of course. However, I tell you that it was not easy and it was not easy because it was a very difficult and responsible decision to make. Many of the directors, including hospital directors, who are from the political option of today's extraordinary meeting candidates, have made this public, both at the openings of emergency centres and elsewhere. They just said that if it weren't for this minister, we wouldn't have these centers today. Next thing you know, DTS or, as we like to call it, a new E.R. As you know, this case was settled or cost two, three years. When I came to the Ministry, the invitation was underway, and there were 330 questions. Not to say that the invitation was such that it was known who would be able to sign up, who would get the job, and even who would be the supervisor. And I'm not going to let myself in on who made it and how. Without my very serious interventions, the extension of the call, the replacement of supervisors and, of course, the acquisition of money in the budget, we could not start and implement the second phase of the new emergency in Ljubljana after three years. And that's for the money that was planned and written down. However, it was not easy to get this money, over 22 million euros, in the budget. Third, very tangible evidence, financially valuable or, if you want, tangible, without systemic corruption laws. Let me also say today that I am pleased that this government has repaired the disgrace of ten-year medical buildings, which have been done so badly despite many irritations that we had to repair water supply in a new house, such as the Oncology Institute. You know that saga. Let me say here that we have again managed not to say what measures to remedy this pipeline in time, no annexes, no extensions. The value was 6.9, realisation even for a million Euros of lower costs. By the way, when I first came to the Ministry of Health, on 19 September 2014, I had an annex on the table to sign the extra work contract for about 500 000 euros, for 120 000 euros to be redesigned and extended. If she hadn't taken very rigorous measures, a change in the supervisor, a follow-up every day, what someone has to do, then the withdrawal of this water treatment would have been delayed for a year. Why? Because the operating rooms couldn't be repaired during the permits. Which may have been the intention of some who had been involved. Even at the cost of saying good-bye. And what an unslept night she's been out there. The next very tangible evidence related to the provision of additional funds and systemic matters is that, for the first time in the history of Slovenia and for the first time, the Ministry has succeeded, which is not for any other ministry to transfer the unused part of integrated investment of 50% to the budget fund, which is inviolable for the rest of the expenditure. Another 50%, of course, with the government's consent. What does that mean? This means that investments can be more normally planned, implemented and that, as a result of a number of audit procedures, they can continue from one financial year to another. So I've listed a few, three, four specific things and measures, all proveable, so financially, with savings, and tangible. Next set, waiting years. By the way, in 14 years, from 2002 to 2014, until my term of office, there were 11 ministers of health. The average mandate was therefore 15 months. None of these ministers, of course, managed to shorten the waiting periods. But I'm going to say that this problem is very complex. The system of payment methods, which gives additional money from the health allowance to reduce waiting periods, has also written criteria and monitored how much of the specialist checks or operations made out of this additional money are actually going to be carried out, it is very clear to you that the interest of all healthcare providers, both in the public sector and those with concessions, is very clear to you that they are also artificially prolonging waiting periods. Why? Because it's a good trigger to get extra money without any control. That's why we're here. Moreover, the National Institute for Public Health has not published all the waiting periods at all, as many health service providers simply did not send them. Now that we've asked them to send all the lists, the waiting lists have been extended. However, it should be noted that waiting lists are very different, that many are highly unworthy. For example, when we aligned this waiting list only with the Central Population Register, 500 people — dead, displaced, and others — disappeared from this waiting list. This, of course, does not mean that I want to reduce the importance and sensitivity of excessive waiting periods, which are certainly in certain areas. That is why we joined a special pilot project last autumn, with two objectives. One is to identify all the necessary systemic changes that we will put in place by the end of this year in the new Law on Patient Rights and on their basis in the new Regulation on the Management and Management of Waiting Ages. The second part, which is very important, is short-term or intervention measures, where we have already selected some of the longest waiting periods, taking into account the following criteria: firstly, that this is a waiting period, which means a reduction in the quality of life for an individual, secondly, that it poses a danger to an individual of deteriorating health status, and thirdly, our desire to ensure that all Slovenes and Slovenes receive the first special review without waiting period. Regardless of the fact that in many cases they are also referred to specialist examinations without any necessary material health reasons. These are the three criteria by which we define these waiting periods and write the criteria. The agreement is with the medical treasury that we will find additional money for this to the 2016 general agreement, which will, of course, be allocated to the individual operator, and we will interview all the management of all the clinics, all the operators, to check the ability of the staff to perform certain interventions, in what time and how much money they will receive for these interventions. If necessary, I'll tell you that I will personally control whether this will be done. That it will no longer happen as it did in the past, because you need to know that a lot of money has been given for these shorter periods – I think last year was 18.6 million – and you see what we have in reality. This is what I assure you from this city, i.e. a package of intervention measures to reduce by the end of the year the most problematic waiting periods, especially the coronarography and various orthopaedic operations, inspections and so on. On this basis, the system and the method of recording are also included. In addition, let me just mention that we are also in the final phase of introducing and ordering an e-customer, which will further contribute to the central electronic management of the entire waiting period list throughout Slovenia. When there is an e-travel, everyone at home behind the computer with their own code will be able to review all operators across Slovenia, where, say, magnetic resonance is the shortest time. This is the second segment, which is also related to these anti-corruption issues, again provenable and you will be able to take me by word of mouth at the end of the year or I believe that before. Part three. It was obvious to me that I had not been able to secure the money in the budget. The facts prove otherwise. It would not repeat itself, but rebalance 2015 27% more in the global – to 107 million out of 83 – and in 2016 to an investment integration of 24%, 2017 35% more, after many years. I think that's more than obvious. that there is no need for comment and that we have provided money for the Slovenian disgrace of the Old Mountain and for something else, and we are also fighting to even get European funds for this. That I won't be too long because it's been said a lot. There have also been many concrete responses at all the extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee mentioned and the related analysis. I don't know if you may have missed the resolution by mistake, this is a strategic document of Slovenian healthcare for 10 years until 2025, which Slovenia had neither in form nor content, because it contains concrete measures, activities, carriers, hands, or that the European Commission, which has read each sentence carefully, would not confirm. I'm not going to repeat my analysis. Yes, past governments have also had an offer to analyse health expenditures from the World Bank for a million EUR 230 000, and we have made it – 60 Slovenian experts and 20 eminent foreign experts – for 360. We have for the first time in Slovenia in one place or one paper a comprehensive review compared to other countries – placement and indicators very concretely. Why? Because of the fact that, of course, individual stakeholders abuse data or information, and unfortunately only those that fit them do not tell the whole. This resolution and analysis, of course, gives particular emphasis because our great challenges or weaknesses are right in managing and managing, not only public health institutions, but also the whole system. They tell us that we do not have clear responsibilities and responsibilities, both horizontal and vertical, and that these are our major challenges in the future. I will not repeat the protocols, but for the first time in public today I will mention that a group of the best hospital directors in Slovenia is preparing the concept of indicators or indicators, quality, safety and performance of public institutions. I promise you that we will do this pilotly in one hospital, a healthcare home, and if everything goes well, we will also prepare one law on management and management in health care in Slovenia, no matter when we can change the whole Law on institutions. Perhaps as a conclusion, even as an invitation or a wish, I believe and I want to achieve consensus in Slovenia – as has been said, health is our greatest value and we put it first – that you will also support it when we go along with proposals related to supplementary insurance when you say that health money is dedicated to various other things. By the way, you were all able to monitor the advertisements that one insurance company gave for 2014 17 thousand vignettes for free, which means that almost 2 million of our premiums, which should go for health services, were only for free vignettes, in order to steal a portfolio of insurers in this small pool of 2 million people. I believe and I want you to support the proposals of the Tobacco Prevention Centre – let me say that this will be this week – as well as the Pharmacy Act, a systematic and comprehensive law regulating pharmacy activities in Slovenia, which will go into public debate in a few days not to mention other priorities. If you allow the conclusion, I think we can have a unified view that no system law can make the desired one, because I also don't know and I didn't hear the proposal as it should be. We know that we have the Public Procurement Act, that we have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, that we have individual sectoral laws. It is therefore impossible for a law to eradicate corruption, lead to zero tolerance for corruption, but it is a series of measures, activities, laws that together give such a system that does not allow or reduce the risk of corruption to a minimum or that it is as low as possible. That is why, of course, it is up to us, because no law as good as it is, if we do not have the right people in the responsible places where people are responsible for employment, as large institutions as UKC, with 453 million euros in income, 7800 employees, almost 1300 doctors. If all of us as individuals do not act honestly, morally, and responsibly, of course, no systemic law will help us. Here and that would be the end of it. I call on everyone because I think it's also the responsibility of all individuals if we know about corruption or if we have evidence, the documents to bring them. I have said this publicly several times because I cannot agree to making statements in newspapers that, by the way, do much damage to the entire healthcare system and to all healthcare professionals. Because, of course, you get the obvious back: I'm guessing 500 million walk in corruption, why then you're saying there's not enough money in health. Corruption must also be proved. I think that's why it's the responsibility of everyone and I'm calling you because there's been so much talk and if you know so many cases, please, I'll be the first in this country. However, I have already shown and done so, because in this short term I have also submitted several complaints, of course with all the documents, evidence and arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u119	The representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Procedural? Procedurally, ma'am. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I suggest that you tell the Minister that she has been with us for almost 8 hours to say some of this in the course of the debate, but not that she has now taken 25 minutes of epics, when, of course, no one else can argue with what she said. This is unacceptable and irresponsible to this national assembly and also to those who listen to us. Dear Minister, by the way, you just said that he was stealing from an insurance company. And you filed a complaint? Mrs. Chokl, who was put there by your Government, said she was stealing from UKC. We wanted answers, we wanted answers. Eight hours. And you, at the end of the eppe, what it was. We were mostly interested in what would happen. Madam Vice-President, for the next time, please tell the Minister that he can also come forward during the debate and that he does not have to wait until the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The Minister herself knows that she has the opportunity to report to the debate in the course of the debate. Well, I'm sorry, so there's nothing I can do about it. Now, on behalf of the proposer, Mrs Mag has the floor again. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u122	Thank you. It's too bad you couldn't come with us to tell all the lobbies in health that exhaustion is over. It's a shame that the coalition doesn't realize that too much money, and this health money, ends up in private pockets instead of in patients, and it's a shame that you didn't tell us how you're going to solve the problem of health corruption. You'd rather bet us eight hours on what we're all responsible for. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, it's not who we're proposing to investigate this, you're against it. Who's going to be responsible for not exploring things now? By constantly looking back on us, unfortunately, you will not lead us into a better future. Yes, Minister, 533 days today, when you and your coalition – SMC, Desus and SD – are the most responsible for the health field. The most responsible for health care. I myself have been responsible for this area, once again, 547 days as Prime Minister of the Government and 156 days as Minister of Health. Your secretary of state sat with me for 156 days. But I hope and I want you in health to solve more problems than we've managed. I have no problem with not being able to do everything we should and should have done, but now you are the Minister and this coalition is responsible for what is happening in our country's health at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u124	Thank you. Madam Minister, thank you for your report on your work and what you intend to do. If we had spoken a little earlier, this debate would probably have been different or it would not have to be asked about certain matters. I expect, however, that so far it has not been possible for you to come to the parliamentary groups and present the matter in advance in the National Assembly, to propose certain laws and request our cooperation. I think it would be much easier for you even then in the National Assembly, but not to put us in front of the fact: This is the law, accept it and cooperate, and if we do not do so, accuse us of not wanting to cooperate. That is why I now call on you to come to the parliamentary groups in advance with proposals for legislation. As far as 500 million are concerned, I am never – not in today's debate, not before, not in the recommendations – mentioned 500 million people who are supposed to die in health because of corruption, so refer these matters to someone else. However, as far as applications are concerned, all that is mentioned in the reports is already in process and we have nothing to report. But the problem is that our justice is not working, so we have also recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of this competent institution call for quicker resolution. We also discussed certain cases, of course, and you replied that the resolution would also help reduce corruption or improve Slovenian health care. Nothing will happen, Madam Minister, not because of you, but because we have heard on the Health Committee that legislation allows corruption, and this from the leaders, that it will be so and that we should deal with it. So we can do what we want. Here I agree, I think one of my colleagues said that as long as he's conscious of people, that they can steal, if I put it harshly, it's going to take so long. If some leaders or former leaders think so, if the National Assembly is to blame for adopting such legislation that allows corruption and stealing in health care, then, Madam Minister, you will have to hit the table and teach the leadership. But I don't think the law says anyone can steal anything either. Earlier, it has been mentioned that we cannot shop in foreign markets, but that we also have our suppliers, let's say, for vascular resistors, but to lower prices. In 2013, for example, one supply chain was Mark Medical 1388, now 304,94. Do you know what the difference is? In three years they could have been reduced by four times, so we can wonder what happened in 2012, 2013 and, of course, even earlier. During today's meeting, I saw online that one of the parliamentary parties on Twitter wrote: The SDS reports on corruption in health serve to shed light on the key problems and attack on health as a public good. That's what the United Left wrote. Maybe they're afraid of the next thing. It's not fear, it's fear. Today we have also given an investigative opinion in the field of vascular resistors – and since these are also the facts that are in the Supervisory Board, online, on Iipes, I have all these documents here – perhaps Mr Kordiša is concerned that if we are looking at the KB1909 scheme, this is the owner of Mark Medicala and owner of Distriest and Distriest is the owner of Mladina. But when you go to the Supervisory Board and see who is in Youth in the control world – Strukelj Branimir. Perhaps this is why Mr Kordish was so upset and was talking about blurring key issues. No, we don't want to blur. As I have already said on the committee and, as I said today, we want to find out why justice, police and all institutions have not so far explored or made public what is happening in this area or what their findings are in the field of vein support, in the field of doctoration from 2013 and so on. It is not only this government's fault that this has happened, and, as a colleague, Mrs Alenka Bratušek said, you have all said that we are responsible for this situation – in 2012 and 2013 Janša's government, and then the government of Alenka Bratušek, today you have not gone to 2004-2008 as a surprise because you have had enough weight there – but, as Bratuškov said, we have made these recommendations to investigate ourselves so that we are going somewhere. Now you should be happy to confirm this, but obviously we're not the problem, obviously there's a problem somewhere else. The problem with the opposition is that it has proposed these recommendations, where money flows away, and the problem is elsewhere, not in the opposition. I hope once again that the Commission of Inquiry, which has been announced today, will find what it must or will be successful in its work, while at the same time the Ministry, while avoiding responsibility in this area, does not, however, want to intervene or warn the competent institutions that you will in the future, the opposition will remain, not in the words: we want to cooperate and we want to discover, but that you will indeed do so. For once again, if some material could have cost four times more years ago and today four times less than three years ago, then something was happening here, and it makes no sense to hide your eyes. Recommendations. Unfortunately, there is no vote today, so you have already decided on the committee, although today you have argued that you agree that corruption is and you want to limit matters, but the government and the ministry do not have these powers. I think you're holding or holding a fig in your pocket. I don't think you're that good at detecting corruption, because if you were, then together we could reshape these recommendations – even though you say it's not working out, we could do it together – and today we could adopt and also impose on the government to speed things up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Izredna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the general debate in the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 6 p.m.
