ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Violeta Tomić, Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Dr. Milan Brglez between 13 and 15 p.m., Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Matjaž Hanžek, Dr. Franc Trček, Jernej Vrtovac until 6 p.m. and Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 13 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Payment Services and Systems following the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems is to transpose into Slovenian law the Directive on the comparability of payments related to payment accounts, exchange of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts. The law also transposes the provisions of the Regulation on the introduction of technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro and the provisions of the Regulation implementing the Regulation on interbank commissions for card payment transactions. In addition, the proposal for a law with minor amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems improves the current legal framework. In connection with the transposition of the Directive, the proposal regulates three areas: it lays down rules on the comparability of payments related to payment accounts; it lays down rules on the replacement of payment accounts; and it lays down rules on access to basic payment accounts. In terms of the comparability of payment account compensation, the proposal provides in more detail the form, manner and time limits in which payment service providers must provide the consumer with free information on payment account compensations. On its website, Banka Slovenije will allow consumers to compare the fees charged by payment service providers in the Republic of Slovenia for free. Comparing refunds on its website Banka Slovenije publishes already, but in future this publication will comply with the requirements of the Directive. Reimbursements will also be published for services on the final list with standardised terminology to be determined by the European Commission by issuing regulatory technical standards. Payment service providers will have to use these standardised terms for each payment service, thus contributing to greater transparency of payment services and facilitating consumers to compare payments between individual providers. The bill also regulates the replacement of the payment account within a Member State and the cross-border replacement. At the request of the consumer, the replacement procedure within the Republic of Slovenia will be initiated by the receiving payment service provider, i.e. the provider in which the consumer will open a new payment account. The receiving and transferring payment service provider will be obliged to carry out all procedures to replace the payment account specified in the consumer’s mandate and within the statutory time limits. The bill introduces a new category of payment accounts. These are basic payment accounts. The Basic Payment Account is an account with a specified set of services as defined in the Directive. The opening of the basic payment account will have to be offered by all banks in the Republic of Slovenia under non-discriminatory conditions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! We are in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at its 25th meeting, which was held on 1 June 2016, as a working mother body, to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems submitted to us by the Government for consideration and adoption. In addition, we have also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which has also supported this bill. We've also received the following amendments. One was tabled by the United Left Group and the other amendments were submitted by the coalition, namely SMC, Desus and SD, to Articles 4 and 13. The introductory supplementary explanation was given to us by the secretary, just like today, so I would not repeat it. Later, some other views were also expressed, namely the Legislative and Legal Service, where it was pointed out that the amendments had eliminated those irregularities or shortcomings that were in the original proposal. Furthermore, the State Council also pointed out that this proposal was supported by the law. The debate followed, in which a representative of the Slovenian Consumer Union also participated. In particular, it has been stressed that they want access to the basic bank account to be available to all consumers, regardless of the financial circumstances in which they are located, so this account should be cost-effective and it should also be possible to access this account to consumers who are in the execution process. They also proposed to ensure better information on the right to access the basic bank account, including at social work centres. In the next discussion, support was expressed for this bill. It was also somehow satisfied with the majority of the solutions proposed, including by comparing the compensations that would now be possible, and it was estimated that there would then be some more competition in this area. Some concerns were raised only with regard to the possibility of switching accounts, since consumers are not inclined to switch banks, especially in remote areas where this banking competition is also limited. In addition, the view was expressed that it might make sense to approach such services by limiting prices was also expressed that the basic payment account might have to be free of charge. At the end of the discussion, the State Secretary provided an additional explanation and answered questions. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have accepted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups, i.e. the coalition, but we have not accepted the four amendments of the Joint Left Group. We then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which is also an integral part of this report, is also prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which we will unanimously support in our Group. The main objective of the bill proposal is to transpose the Directive on the comparability of payments related to payment accounts, exchange of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts. In addition, it will legislate, namely, the provisions of the Regulation on the introduction of technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro and the provisions of the Interbank Fees Regulation and card payment transactions. The bill is for the benefit of the consumer and this is of crucial importance to us. In the Desus Group we welcome the solution which will oblige Banka Slovenije to publish a list on its website and to allow for a comparison of refunds free of charge. Such a solution will, in our firm belief, help consumers to decide for the most cost-effective payment service provider, and this will also affect greater competition between individual payment service providers. The latter will have to provide the consumer with at least once a year free of charge for all fees charged for payment account services, with standardised terms to be used. The bill also regulates the replacement of the payment account within a Member State and the cross-border replacement. The exchange of a payment account will have to be made possible by a payment service provider to any consumer who opens or has a payment account with a payment service provider in our country. Any compensation to be charged to the consumer by the transferee or the receiving payment service provider for any service under the substitution procedure will have to be appropriate and in accordance with the actual costs of the payment service provider, and this will prevent the possible benevolence of consumers or of the beneficiaries. Banks will have to reject the request to open a basic account if the opening of such an account would result in a breach of the provisions of the law governing the prevention and laundering of money and the financing of terrorism, allowing for the imprudentness or even deliberate possible tampering of the system. As has already been said, in the Desus Group, the proposal for a law seems to us to be a step in the right direction, as it will bring greater transparency to consumers regarding the charging of refunds, facilitate the comparison of their level between individual providers and facilitate the replacement of the payment account. Therefore, transparency, efficiency and elimination of administrative barriers – with one word: order. For this reason, we will unanimously support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The European Directive on the comparability of payments for exchange and access to payment accounts refers to this problem from the perspective of the consumer. This is an area that can be classified as an emergency service without access to which it is not possible to operate normally in modern society. Like telephony, payment traffic has become a necessity, even those without electronic banking must pay the bills, which are also part of this, often a very opaque system. We all use them, and we all pay for them. However, it is very difficult to assess how different all these services are by name, content and quality. The Directive thus introduces a uniform expression and obligations for all payment service providers to present them to the consumer in a standardised manner and for regulators to ensure that prices can be compared by different typical services. The new Law on Payment Services and Systems, which transposes the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, is therefore particularly important for the protection of consumers who use payment services and systems on a daily basis. In view of the wide-ranging electronicisation of business and life, they could even talk about the dependency of residents and residents on payment services and systems and, as a result, of their managers of banks, brokerage houses, traders and other payment service providers. Income from work, an essential part of human property and savings depends on the proper functioning of these systems. This is an emergency service where more or less hidden costs often occur. The solutions provided by such a recast law include, inter alia, the unification of technology, services and a single universally accessible benchmark to be published by Banka Slovenije, a standardised price comparison with which banks will have to inform consumers on each contract signing and the regular updating of the contract. Banks will have to issue annual transparent accounts of all fees charged to their clients. One of the most important services, however, follows as much as possible the need for a universally accessible basic payment account that could be obtained by any resident. Payment service providers will thus have to offer a basic payment account under non-discriminatory conditions and the restrictions are only related to the broadcasting and prevention of misuse of terrorist financing and money laundering. Only in these cases will the banks be allowed to refuse the opening of the basic payment account. Much time was devoted to the debate on transparency and mutual comparison in the treatment of the parent body. There was a proposal that price comparisons should also be published by social work centres. This is certainly a good proposal for access of the poorest victims and the availability of quality information, and we also welcome the agreement that information on price comparisons will also be published on the sides of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposed law will introduce a basic bank account, which will focus in particular on socially disadvantaged people. The basic idea is good, it is an account with a limited number of transactions that should be sufficient for basic needs. So far, we agree with the proposal. The problem is that the measure has not been implemented consistently. European regulations provide that the basic account is free of charge or that the bank can only charge the prescribed costs. Since this is a social measure, the logical solution would be that the basic account is free of charge. However, as soon as the charging of services is allowed, the size of the Bank of Slovenia's part is increased, which must prescribe and monitor prices. At the same time with such a system we cause people to deal with price comparisons by banks, although differences are expressed in cents, and I am sure that both people and Banka Slovenije have much more important work. Our proposal would therefore be much simpler: basic accounts should be free of charge and the prices of other accounts should be prescribed. At the meeting of the parent committee, we tried to mislead the implementation of the law in this direction, but our amendments were rejected, both as an amendment to prevent banks from charging the costs of implementation to socially disadvantaged people, as an amendment that the Bank of Slovenia must take social criteria into account when setting the maximum permitted prices. It is a matter of preventing socially disadvantaged residents of the bank from squandering funds, but they still charge them the cost of looking; otherwise they must not recover this in the current month, but they always do so in the next month. Some banks also charged EUR 30 or more for such processing of the enforcement decision. The coalition of these two amendments was not prepared to support it, so we also cancelled support for this law. Therefore, according to our assessment, it is a measure which has been half implemented that will not achieve its purpose. This is also confirmed by the experience with the closure of register accounts for securities. Last year, the coalition adopted a new Law on Securities, which regulates the registration accounts. We have always opposed the abolition because it is solely in the interest of the stockbrokers. In the third reading, an amendment was adopted limiting the amount of compensation that the broker may charge. By that time, we had warned that stockbrokers would pass this limit. That's what happened. Our citizens are receiving offers from stock brokers to open a commercial account these days. One of the largest brokerage houses has recently sent an action offer to charge €10 for the transfer by the end of August, after which the cost of opening and maintaining the account will be over €40. I'm not saying this to do advertising, but to show on this occasion that the legal restriction imposed there does not work. The law limited the costs of transferring from registration to a commercial account, but stockbrokers charge the opening and maintenance of a commercial account, statement of status and the like. According to the latest data, natural persons still have 155 000 open accounts, and if we multiply it by costs, it says 40 euros for opening and managing, we see. What a gift the coalition has granted to the stockbrokers. Since we are confident that banks with private accounts will also earn more than the real costs, and because the amendments, in particular the amendment which has been pointed out many times in civil society, have not been supported, we cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u11	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the proposed amendment of the Law on Payment Services and Systems is to transpose the relevant Directive of the European Union and three other European regulations into the Slovenian legal order. The bill provides for harmonisation of terminology, provides for the obligation of the Bank of Slovenia to publish on its website a list of standardised terminology for the most representative services related to the payment account for which compensation is paid. The list of standardised terminology will also have to be provided free of charge to the consumer by each payment service provider. The payment service provider will have to provide the consumer at least once a year with a free invoice of all fees charged for the payment account-related services. All of these solutions are seen by Christian Democrats as a positive measure to increase the transparency of business. On its website, the Bank of Slovenia will allow consumers to compare refunds. This will make it easier for users to choose a bank, which certainly promotes competition between service providers. As regards the provision of the basic payment account, the Bank will only be able to charge the consumer an appropriate compensation. The draft law provides that the Bank of Slovenia will, by means of a sub-law, prescribe a way of calculating the amount of the appropriate compensation. The exchange of a payment account will have to enable any payment service provider to open or hold a payment account with a payment service provider in the Republic of Slovenia. Any compensation to be charged to the consumer by the port or receiving payment service provider for any service in the substitution procedure will have to be appropriate and in accordance with the actual costs of the payment service provider. The whole substitution procedure shall not take longer than 12 working days. The proposed amendment facilitates the transition of consumers between providers, which we understand as a measure to actually improve the functioning of competition in the banking sector. In the case of cross-border replacements, the payment service provider, where the consumer has a payment account, will also have to provide certain relevant information free of charge. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today we are considering amendments and additions to the Law on Payment Services and Systems. With regard to the current arrangements, it is necessary to clarify that the applicable law regulates the condition for the establishment, operation, control and termination of payment institutions, the rights and obligations of users and providers of these services in connection with the provision of payment services; the rules on the design and management of the systems themselves; the conditions for the management of electronic money issuance activities; and the conditions for the establishment, operation, control and termination of electronic money companies. This bill, however, brings to the Slovenian legal order a directive and regulations governing the introduction of technical and business requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro and interbank commissions for card payment transactions. In connection with the transposition of the Directive, the proposal for a law governs three areas. Firstly, it lays down rules on the comparability of payments related to payment accounts, secondly, rules on the replacement of payment accounts and thirdly, rules on access to basic payment accounts. The bill provides that Banka Slovenije will publish on its website a list of standardised terminology for the most representative services related to the payment account for which compensation is paid. This list will have to be aligned with the terminology of the final list prepared by the European Banking Authority and will then be published by the European Commission in the form of regulatory technical standards. In addition to the list, a common symbol will be developed to distinguish the compensation document from other documents. A list of standardised terminology will have to be provided free of charge to each payment service provider before the conclusion of the framework contract for the management of the payment account and ensure that the compensation information document is always available to the consumer. The payment service provider will also have to use standardised terms with the final list in its contracts with consumers and in advertising. The proposal will facilitate the replacement of the payment account for consumers as it prescribes the procedures to be carried out by the transfer and receiving payment service provider when changing the account and sets the time limits within which individual procedures are to be carried out. The bill also grants consumers the right to open a basic payment account that will enable consumers to carry out all basic payment services at a reasonable price. We support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Parliamentary Group mainly because the law will bring greater transparency in calculating the remuneration of the payment service provider in managing them and facilitate the comparison of their level between individual providers, helping the consumer to decide for the most cost-effective payment service provider. This will also affect greater competition between individual payment service providers in the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, the SMC Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! The basic objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services and Systems is to transpose the European Directive on the comparability of payments related to payment accounts, exchange of payment accounts and access to basic payment accounts. The bill provides that Banka Slovenije will have to publish on its website a standardised list for the most representative services related to the payment account for which compensation is paid. This list will have to be aligned with the terminology of the final list prepared by the European Banking Authority and will then be published by the European Commission in the form of technical standards. Each payment service provider will have to provide the consumer free of charge before concluding a framework contract to manage the payment account and ensure that the compensation information document is always available to the consumer. The payment service provider will also have to use standardised terms from the final list in its contracts with consumers and also in advertising. At least once a year, the service provider will also have to provide the consumer with a free payment account of all the fees charged for the services related to the payment account. The proposal also regulates the replacement of the payment account within a Member State and the cross-border replacement, which will begin at the request of the consumer. Consumers are expected to be given a better review of the costs of their business with the bank and to facilitate the comparability of the banking offer, while also reducing the barriers to consumer mobility represented by the replacement of the bank. However, the law also has certain shortcomings. It is impossible to access basic payment accounts to consumers who are in the execution process, the methodology for certain basic payment account operating prices is not designed in a way that can also be afforded by socially disadvantaged groups, and information on the right to a basic payment account is not available in several places – here I am referring to the exposure of social work centres, employment institutions and so on. We will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u17	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is a proposal by D.D., D.D., D.D., D.D., and D.D., Dutb, D.D., for the sake of cesar, the need for its recapitalisation would arise. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u18	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we have decided to request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the issue of the simplified association of Probanka and Factor banka d.d., with the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We decided to convene this extraordinary meeting for several reasons, one of the online portals in early April that the Management Board of the Company for Bank Claims Management (DUTB) of February 2016 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will send a report that DUTB, due to the accession of Factor Bank, d.d., and Probanke, will create an additional loss of EUR 40 to 50 million to be covered by the State or Government with the recapitalisation of DUTB. In the event that the Government fails to implement the recapitalisation, the Bank's Claims Management Company will also become officially insolvent or bankrupt. We recommend that both Banka Slovenije and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wish to hide in any way the amount of bad loans or assets in both banks, and obviously the most appropriate way to do so is to simplify the connection process. We are convinced that the bank hole of the amount of five billion that we had to pay the taxpayers is even higher, and that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are hiding it from Members. The fact is also that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at its 70th regular meeting on 15 January 2016 as the DUTB Assembly, agreed that it is not necessary to draw up an interim balance sheet for the acquisition of companies and management reports on the accession and audit of the simplified accession process of Probank and Factor Bank to the DUTB. The decision was based only on the fact that the government owns 100 % of all companies. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which considered this recommendation as a first-time body, we can conclude that a number of questions have not been answered by the Government or the Bank of Slovenia, so we expect today's debate to have any questions that have not been answered by both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we expect concrete clarifications from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group today. With regard to the simplified connection of banks to DUTB, both Factor and Probanks are, of course, asked a key question, who is actually responsible for the height of the hole that has been created. They would only point out that both the Governor and the Government, in the decision on the so-called controlled liquidation of both the Factor Bank and Probanke, ensured that there was sufficient capital to liquidate the bank under the Law by companies, which we explain in the SDS is liquidation by procedure, that all creditors and owners are paid. From the information received, these results are significantly different and there is a great risk that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will have to recapitalise the company with tax money due to the addition of Probank and Factor Bank to the Claims Management Company. In the SDS we have proposed four recommendations, namely that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide the Probanke, d.d., and Factor banka, d.d., opening balance sheet immediately on 1 January 2016. In doing so, we have found on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that in the interim period the Government has already sent this matter to the National Assembly. Another recommendation, which was also one big surprise, given that the proposer of the Slovenian Democratic Party has been voted on by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that the National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to transmit to it immediately the DUTB report on the accession of the Bank and Probank, where the Government can send the report in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the management of confidential data. We are convinced that this has taken an important step towards adopting this recommendation on the Committee on Finance, and in the SDS we expect this recommendation to be voted on at today's meeting of the National Assembly. The two recommendations have not been accepted yet, namely that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia immediately suspend the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble and the Secretary of State Method Dragonjo. Second recommendation that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that, pursuant to Article 39 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the procedure for the discharge of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, and those members of the Bank's Council who took part in this decision be opened. Both recommendations are based primarily on the argument that it is likely that the primary responsibility for the controlled liquidation of both Probanks and Factor Banka Slovenije is borne by the fact that Banka Slovenije has placed in both companies of the Extraordinary Administration and that Banka Slovenije has also performed as a supervisory board in both companies. With regard to the recommendation to dismiss the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble and the Secretary of State, the fact that the Ministry of Finance was deeply involved in the so-called supervised liquidation of both banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are still wondering why it was necessary to connect the Bank, both Probank and Factor Bank, to DUTB, why the controlled liquidation did not end and why it was also necessary to transfer the complex personnel or employees from Probank and Factor Bank to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The fact is that the Bank Claims Management Company already has more than 220 employees. They would point out only one information; the DUTB 2015 annual report shows that labour costs were around €5.9 million and the planned labour costs for 2016 amount to more than €10 million. We ask ourselves about the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of this decision, in particular whether it will be true that this decision on the accession of both the Bank's Factor and Probanke to the DUTB will reach again into the pockets of taxpayers and will require that the Government of Mir Cerar and the Minister of Finance Dusan Muror be cut down in the taxpayer's pocket and paid again between €40 million and €50 million. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect to receive, during today's debate, answers to which questions on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have not been answered both by the Bank of Slovenia and by the Ministry of Finance. If we look back in the bench, I would say we regret that there are no visible representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, both the governor and the vice-governor, and this shows once again the relationship shown by the Bank of Slovenia both to the National Assembly and, above all, to those responsible for it. At the same time, given that I do not see any representative of Banka Slovenije, I now call for an attempt to ensure, in the absence of the Governor of the Bank, at least the presence of one of the Vice-Governors in the National Assembly. Because the fact is that Banka Slovenije is the one who named Probanka’s extraordinary administrations and played the role of supervisory board, and I am sure that Banka Slovenije should be present today in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u19	The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 24th meeting, on 25 June. 5. 2016, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for that recommendation submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. In addition to the proposal for a recommendation, the Committee also received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 6. 5, material with the number 450-03/16-25/6 bearing the trade secret code in the safety deposit box in the Udis system of 9. 5. 2016 and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 11. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No amendments were tabled on the proposal for a recommendation. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Banka Slovenije, DUTB and Legal and Legal Services attended the meeting. The initial supplementary explanation of the proposal was presented by SDS Member Marko Pogačnik, on behalf of the applicant, who presented the content of the proposal for a recommendation and the reasons for the proposed recommendation. He drew attention to the report of the DUTB Management Board of February 2016 transmitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia stating that DUTB would create an additional loss of between €40 million and €50 million due to the accession of the Factor Bank and Probank. In addition, he pointed out that the decision of the Government as well as Banka Slovenije regarding the simplified connection between Factor Bank and Probanka to DUTB was surprising and highlighted the question of possible recapitalisation of DUTB due to this connection. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service took note of the comments made in the written opinion and drew attention to the fact that the Government should also ensure their confidentiality in accordance with the rules when submitting any confidential documents. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the Government's written opinion, pointing out that the above findings in the recommendation were unfounded and that the Government was informed of the financial situation of the two banks. He also justified the Government's decision on the way in which the merger was carried out, which was legally and economically justified and also transparent. He said that the Government was not opposed to the recommendation that the Government should forward the opening balance sheet of the two banks to the National Assembly, as well as to forward the DUB report to the National Assembly. With regard to paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Recommendation, however, the Government considers that there are no reasons for the proposed discharge. The Governor of Banka Slovenije said that all decisions and procedures under the responsibility of Banka Slovenije have been carried out prudently, with the utmost care to maintain the stability of the financial system also in terms of the consumption of tax money. He further detailed the reasons why it was decided that Factor Bank and Probank had gone into controlled liquidation and not bankruptcy. He said that the initial assessment of the costs of liquidation of both banks was estimated at EUR 400 million, with all data not yet known at the time. The final amount of the minimum necessary recapitalisation is EUR 445 million and was also confirmed by the European Commission in November 2013. However, the recapitalisation was carried out in December 2013. He estimated that the final cost of the closure of the two banks for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia would be equal to the amount of the recapitalisation carried out in December 2013, namely EUR 445 million. This amount shall be at the lower limit of the then envisaged recapitalisation scenario. The remaining EUR 76 million of approved recapitalisation remains, while at the same time the cost of recapitalisation, i.e. EUR 445 million, is around EUR 300 million lower than the cost if bankruptcy were imposed on banks. The discussion raised questions about the need for additional recapitalisation of the DUTB due to the addition of both banks, the methods used to assess bad claims, the possible other solutions for both banks, the large amounts held by state institutions in these two banks, and the issue of subordinated bonds. A question was also raised regarding the Bank of Slovenia's positive assessment of the operation of both banks one year before the liquidations were controlled and the responsibility for the preparation of the materials on the basis of which the Council of the Bank of Slovenia decides. In the discussion below, the members and members of the Committee also highlighted the issue of the transfer of employees from both banks to the DUTB and the costs involved. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije were responsible for the discussion. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted points 2 and 1, 3 and 4 of the Recommendation and was not adopted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u21	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for recommendations under consideration relates to the accession of Probanka and Factor Bank to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. This is a topic that has already been explained by the Government and the Ministry of Finance, not only on the home working body of the Finance Committee, but also on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, but also a number of detailed answers to individual parliamentary questions. At its meeting on 17 February 2016 as the Probanke and Factor Bank Assembly, the Government adopted conclusions on the simplification of the association of the two companies with the Bank's Claims Management Company. The Government underlines that this decision has been taken carefully and weighed on the basis of all necessary information and preliminary decisions. This approach has proved to be the most appropriate in terms of the total capital burden for the country and the public financial impact. This also took into account the fact that, as of September 2013, both banks, on a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia, were in a controlled winding-up procedure which must be completed in accordance with a decision of the European Commission granting State aid to banks by 31 at the latest. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The current government could not interfere with the decision taken in 2013 by the Bank of Slovenia and the then Government on the emergency measures taken to introduce a process for the controlled cessation of both banks. At the time of its term of office, the government has been dealing with the most rational way to close the operations of both banks and with the lowest additional burden for the state budget and taxpayers. The findings of the proposers of the recommendation are assessed as unfounded, and we stress that the whole accession process has been carried out in a transparent manner. Connections were made on the basis of revised balance sheets and with due diligence. At the same time, Banka Slovenije, in its assessment of the connection prepared as the supervisory board of Probanka and Factor Banka, assessed that the connection was legally and economically justified and found that the accession procedures were carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act. The Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company, in its report on the accession of the Government as a meeting, pointed out that further weaknesses in the transferred credit lines of the two banks will be required due to a stricter methodology to determine the fair value of the assets and due to the higher capital cost of DUTB. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the additional weaknesses in the amounts transferred on the accession items will not exceed the amount approved but not the State aid used by both banks by the European Commission. In addition to minimising the capital burden for the country, the Ministry of Finance has pursued another, very important objective, namely to ensure the full payment of liquidity aid to both banks, which was granted in the form of an emergency loan by the European Central Bank in 2013. For both loans amounting to EUR 30 million, she issued a guarantee from the Republic of Slovenia. In 2014, the guarantee was cashed at an unpaid loan of EUR 428 million and two credit contracts were concluded with the Ministry of Finance for further payment of this loan. The attachment of both banks to DUTB allows the remaining assets of both banks to be cashed in step-by-step and not on liquidation or bankruptcy terms, thereby eliminating the risk that the aid in the form of a liquidity loan would not be fully reimbursed. The government does not oppose the proposal to recommend to the Government that we submit to the National Assembly the report of the Banks Claims Management Company. With the addition of Factor Bank and Probank, the complexity of the operation of this institution has increased, and it will therefore be necessary to ensure that DUTB receives adequate support to fund the remaining assets of both banks and that both objectives of these procedures are successfully achieved. First, the reduction of the capital burden for the country and secondly, the full payment of the liquidity aid paid to the banks. In the process of controlled liquidation of the two banks, the depositories of the two banks were paid in full, enabling them to cease and, on the other hand, the negative effect of the termination of the two banks on the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia was prevented and financial stability ensured, which was one of the basic conditions for recovery of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye again, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to require access to all information on this subject to the accession of Factor Bank and Proteb to the DUTB and to leave their posts immediately in their view. The applicant challenged the fact that both of these banks were connected to the DUTB after a simple merger procedure, an exception that the law allows when both companies are owned by the same company in 100 %. The legal conditions for this were met due to the supported faction of the Bank and Probanks, which were in difficulty and had to be recapitalised by the State. At that time, the need for emergency recapitalisation was identified in 2014 and was also realized in the context of the decision on controlled liquidation. The alternative scenario was, as presented, the bankruptcy of both banks, which would result in even greater damage: for savers who would lose 100 000 euros in deposits, for the country which would have to guarantee these deposits, the borrowers of both banks, who are guilty and innocent, would have been required to pay off the loans immediately. How and why there was a need for this scenario and recapitalisation, which cost the country almost EUR 400 million, is of course an important discussion, but the applicants talk about decisions that took place later, beyond their recommendations. It is therefore necessary to point out the facts which make it clear that the proposals for decisions submitted by the applicants were unnecessary, but certainly they were excessive requirements for general derogations and discharges, which is already a constant practice of the applicants in all their proposals and requests. Of course, it is the responsibility of the Government, in particular the Finance Ministry, and of course the Bank's Claims Management Company, to make all the necessary arguments in the additional debate, so that the less educated public can generate an opinion on this matter. It is important, however, that we are aware of the personal responsibility of those we have trusted to take decisions on behalf of all of us, that we expect the supervisory institutions to do their work and identify irregularities if they occur. We must have confidence in institutions, and we all expect them to justify this not only by preventing and detecting violations but also by means of a way of communication where there will be no room for doubt and confusion. This is their primary responsibility to the public and to this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr President, once again for your word. As shown in the report of the Committee, the SDS proposal had four original points, of which the Committee had only adopted a recommendation that the Government submit to the National Assembly a report by the bad bank on the accession of the Probanka and Factor Bank. Let me say in the introduction that we will not oppose the recommendation in this form in the United Left. Let me also say from the outset that we do not expect any greater benefit from this report. As in all other banks, the bad claims of these two private banks stem from the first Janša government. This original problem can no longer be remedied. As in all other cases, State aid to banks was taken in autumn 2013 and most decisions are also irreversible. However, it is still not too late to determine whether these decisions were correct and who is responsible for potential irregularities. From this point of view, these recommendations are irrelevant. However, we would need what we requested in the United Left already a good year ago and what was also adopted by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission at our initiative: the Government should prepare a basis for a systematic investigation into the rehabilitation of the bank in 2013. If any, then there is reasonable suspicion in this case that the measures were harmful and disproportionate and that there has been significant damage to public finances. The assessment of the situation in banks was carried out in a non-professional manner and under pressure from the European Commission, which used the economic crisis in Slovenia to force the privatisation of maintained banks and state-owned enterprises. This is shown by the following facts, which are well known, but Banka Slovenije ignores them. Firstly, the difference between the results of the two stress tests was about €1.5 billion and 45%. In Spain, there was virtually no difference in similar tests one year earlier. Secondly, all banks with the possible exception of Probank and Factor Bank were solvent and had positive capital under international accounting standards. However, the aid was granted on the basis of the liquidation value of the assets of the banks, it is said, on the basis of an assessment as if those banks were on the verge of bankruptcy. Thirdly, the assumptions on the basis of which the volume of recapitalisation was determined were among the most unfavourable in the EU and in clear contrast with the SURS data, which confirmed GDP growth in the coming years. As a result of all of this, the recapitalisation of banks was greater than would have been strictly necessary, and public debt is now appropriate. We often hear an explanation that, due to the leasing of small shareholders, the recapitalisation was smaller than if they had not been decommissioned, but the above figures show that the capital requirements in these banks were significantly lower than shown. If recapitalisation were carried out on the basis of real needs, there would be no need for decommissioning and the total cost for citizens would be lower. In addition, Slovenia is likely to have to pay compensation to small investors, which means that no one has really saved up this measure. Due to all these suspicious circumstances and operations in the United Left, we demand that the privatisation of banks be stopped because it is extremely harmful. This is evidenced by the sale of the Apollo NKBM by EUR 250 million, although the bank has a 26% capital adequacy and has received more than EUR billion of state aid only during the crisis. The minimum that citizens are expected from the Government is to require an extension of the privatisation deadline, which Italy has already done and what Portugal will do. In one case, Italy has already reached a postponement. Both in Portugal and in Italy, the main buyer for the purchase of held banks was the same Apollo Fund, which clearly indicates that it is not a strategic owner, but a financial vulture. Apollo will tear the bank down and sell it with profit, at the expense of all the citizens and citizens who have filled it with more than a billion euros of public funds, and the government has sold it for 250 million people. The machination of such an extent as the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks in 2013 and 2014 cannot be sanctioned by standard judicial procedures and that is why we have asked the Government to submit the Systemic Investigations Act. The coalition also promised this in a coalition agreement, and last summer the Ministry of Justice even sent the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State interest to Parliament. This law was adopted at first reading on 15 July, including by the votes of the United Left. And then the procedure stopped. On 4 September, the Ministry of Justice requested that the proceedings be suspended. Since then, it has been more than nine months, and I call on representatives of the government and the coalition to put the amended law into effect. This is the only way to determine to what extent public finances have been damaged and how much damage we can repair in the coming years. Finally, I must define myself until those points of the recommendation that the Committee on Finance has not adopted. In these points, the SDS calls on the Government to resolve the financial minister, Mramor, Secretary Dragoń and Governor Jazbec. In the United Left, we know very well that because of his role in privatising banks and businesses, Dr. Marble should not perform his functions. Minister Maramor is directly responsible for the staff composition of the board of directors of the bad bank and also advocated the privatisation of Telekom Slovenije. He is now involved in the second-track sabotage and privatisation project of Slovenian infrastructure. Because of his opposition, this government will not abolish supplementary health insurance, but will reduce public health resources by an additional EUR 300 million, even though we are already under the European average, through measures such as the abolition of the first three days of hospital. Minister Maramor is also a major opponent in raising social benefits, while at the same time he is constantly lobbying to reduce income for the highest-paying debtors. In short, the reasons for the suspension of the finance minister is enormous, but according to our assessment of the connections of Probanka and Factor Bank is definitely not one of them. According to our assessment, the links between these two banks and a bad bank make sense for at least two reasons. If no connection is made, all remaining assets should be sold to the bank by the end of the year. In this way, we would have profited less than if this period were extended. After all, for the same reason, we have extended the operation of a bad bank and, for the same reason, the Italians and the Portuguese do not have a mission to sell the held banks within the time limit prescribed by the European Commission. In this way, the loss to the Republic of Slovenia will not increase, but will decrease. The second reason is that in this way it is more likely that the banks will pay their obligations to the guarantee budget. In this case, too, the addition of the loss to Slovenia does not increase, but decreases. In the meantime, due to the addition of two banks, one of which has a negative capital, the DUTB may need recapitalisation. However, it is important to be aware that citizens own all these business entities and that we will end up paying for the drink, whether the banks are liquidating by the end of the year or joining the DUDB. The connection to the DUTB only means that the time to recover the remaining assets is extended and that the loss in the last instance is reduced. Of course, all of this applies on condition that the authorities do their job well this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u27	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u28	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! In the National Assembly, we have to repeat Members of New Slovenia many times, and this is also the case when we talk about the consequences of the bank hole for Slovenian taxpayers' pockets. We have already spent more than €5 billion on patching them up, and the government's response to banking issues is, however, limited exclusively to the implementation of the measures required of us by the European Union. The calls of New Slovenia and some other opposition parties for effective action are unfortunately overheared or even silenced, and the bank hole is apparently deepening again. The news of this came to the public through the Siol.net website in the second half of this April, but the documentation of the documents they provide shows that DUTB will generate an additional loss of up to EUR 50 billion, or up to EUR 50 million, due to the accession of the Factor Bank and Probank, which will, of course, be covered by the taxpayers from the budget. Therefore, every Slovenian citizen from those in kindergarten and those in nursing homes will have to withdraw 25 euros from their wallets to patch up completely irresponsible decisions that would probably have meant that someone should be convicted in the past. But unfortunately, nothing happened, just an empty word before the government's coalition to solve this problem in Icelandic fashion. Concerns are also raised about the future risks that the DUTB is expected to present in the disclosed document. As the legal successor of both banks, DUTB also assumed EUR 369 million of commitments to the country, which it appears will not be able to settle within the deadline. Since the State no longer guarantees the new DUTB liabilities since January this year, there is also a risk that new creditors will not be able to be paid without the recapitalisation of both banks. There are also reasonable doubts about the increase in DUTB operating costs, as there has been a strong increase of over 100 new employees from both connected banks. Probank is also expected to lose four more lawsuits worth more than €1 million. This risk has also been taken over by taxpayers through DUTB. The document also states that there is a risk that a possible cancellation of Probanka and Factor Bank bondholders of up to EUR 64 million will fall on the DUTB. Despite such high risks, however, the government has decided on a simplified accession procedure that does not require disclosure of a number of documents, including reports on the revision of the connection itself – an unreasonable move! The government's move is therefore completely imprecise, at the same time irresponsible. Indeed, it gives us a reasonable suspicion that something had to be hidden in connection with Factor and Probank; it gives us this feeling. That is why in Novi Slovenija we believe that the Government would justify some responsibility if the DUTB report on the connection of banks and the opening balance sheet of Probanka and Factor Banka were to be transmitted to the National Assembly immediately on 1 January 2016. If she does not do so, it will only increase citizens' mistrust in the decisions she has taken in this matter. On this occasion, Christian Democrats are once again reminding us that the integration of the country into the economic and financial sector is always ending with the emptying of taxpayers' wallets, so the promises are nothing good. That is why, in New Slovenia, we will recommend a simplified connection between Probanka and Factor Bank to DUTB, which is why the need to recapitalise it is expected to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u29	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u30	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Sanitation of banks is a topic that has been employing both policy and citizens since 2011, if we look back and slightly better, in fact everything since 2006, since the bank hole that we had to repair was the biggest bank hole since 2006. From 2006 to 2008, the bank hole was created, and from 2009 to 2011, we should – and we did not – deal with the rehabilitation of this bank hole or as a state to react. In 2012 we received a legislative, so-called legal framework for recovery, and in 2013 and 2014 we also finally carried out the rehabilitation. Today we are in 2016 and still, obviously, in view of the topic before us, we are solving banking problems. Thus, for ten years the state has been very actively engaged in banks in one way or another. Today we will talk again for hours about the rehabilitation of the two Slovenian banks, Factor and Probanks, not about the rehabilitation of these two banks, but about the liquidation of these two banks. An exceptional measure by the Bank of Slovenia, controlled by liquidation, was issued in September 2013. Guarantees of up to EUR 540 million for Probank and up to EUR 490 million for Factor Bank were granted. At the same level, the guarantee was also approved by the European Commission in its decision, which provisionally granted State aid and made available for two months to prepare a restructuring programme or a controlled winding-up programme for these two banks. Factor Bank and Probank are expected to cease the process of controlled liquidation with the aim of paying off all ordinary creditors. In both banks, Banka Slovenije appointed a special administration and provided liquidity support on the basis of collateral. The projected duration of liquidity support shall be one year, but the deadline depends on the plan of controlled liquidation prepared by the extraordinary management. The supervised liquidation of banks should follow a very specific procedure. On the basis of the stress tests carried out and on the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia, a measure of recapitalisation of EUR 269 million and Probank amounting to EUR 176 million was also implemented. In December 2013, the European Commission authorised a recapitalisation of EUR 285 for Factor Bank and liquidity aid of up to EUR 400 million for Probank, while the recapitalisation of EUR 236 million for Probank was granted by the European Commission and liquidity aid of up to EUR 325 million. In May 2014, this liquidity aid had to be repaid to the European Central Bank as a last resort. Since the banks were unable to repay these two loans, Banka Slovenije is 19. 6. On the basis of the guarantee agreement, 2014 called on the Ministry of Finance to cash out the guarantee for both banks, for Factor amounting to EUR 186,9 million and for Probank amounting to EUR 241 million. In the process of further divestment and contraction of the balance sheet sums of the two banks, the Government has made more detailed assessments of the most optimal possibilities in terms of public financial burdens for the completion of the controlled winding-up procedure of the two banks. Several possible ways and multiple possible termination scenarios have been assessed. First, to withdraw only a bank licence and to keep these banks operating; not as banks, but as normal companies, or to impose bankruptcy proceedings on them. The second option to ensure full recapitalisation, as approved by the European Commission, is that the total amount of State aid granted has not yet been used. And the third option is to attach these two banks to the Bank Management Company or so-called bad banks. The implementation of the merger procedure of Factor Bank and Probank is expected to represent the most favourable option in terms of the overall burden on the State. As early as September 2015, the government decided to support Banka Slovenije's activities in the direction of implementing the simplified procedure of connecting the two banks to the Claims Management Company, thus completing controlled termination procedures. On 15 January 2016, the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, agreed to carry out the procedure of accession by means of a simplified connection method. This means that the intermediate balance sheet of the acquisition company should not be drawn up in the process of connecting the two banks, nor should it be in the acquisition company DUTB. The Bank of Slovenia, however, considered that the drafting of the audit would be a matter of hygiene. In fact, the path decided by the Government is obviously the right path for the state and the citizens, and one question is asked; why the government did not want to put the so-called interim balance sheet on the table. If this were done, everything would be clear and exposed, and so it remains a suspicion that the government wants to cover something up. Why, we don't know. Maybe you know that from your colleagues in the coalition. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Even if the accession of both banks to the bad bank is the cheapest and most favourable for the country, it is irresponsible of the Government to inform us, Members, and the public of the additional resources needed in this connection, let it be one million, 40 or 50. It is irresponsible that you did not put this information on the table when you came to inform us that the connection would happen. Why didn't you shut up then? You're the only one who knows. In our parliamentary group, we will support the decision that remains the only one before us, which is, in fact, not so important because the material that is in line with this Decision is required, so to speak, we already have it on the table or it is already in the National Assembly. It would seem more important to me today to hear the exact amount, or at least the exact amount, of how much this country will cost to connect the two banks to the bad bank. I hope and I want this answer to be received today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its regular meeting on 17 February 2016 as the Assembly of Factor Bank and Probanke, the Government adopted conclusions on the simplification of the link between the two banks and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. It has taken its decision on the basis of all necessary information and preliminary decisions in this regard, as it has proved to be the most appropriate approach in terms of the overall capital burden for the country and the public financial impact. Both banks have been in a controlled termination process since 6 September 2013 at the request of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the liquidation plan, the banks rapidly divested most of their assets and reduced their liabilities, with their assets ultimately consisting of non-performing loans, less liquid shares and shares, and a real estate portfolio, which is linked to long-term enforcement and insolvency proceedings. In the light of the decision of the European Commission authorising State aid, controlled terminations should be completed by 31 December 2016 at the latest, and the banks should therefore begin to sell or cash their remaining assets more rapidly, which could mean that prices achieved would be significantly lower than they could have been achieved over a longer period of time. Therefore, the early completion of the controlled winding-up procedure by means of their accession to the DUTB is in the function of reaching the maximum price for the remaining assets of the banks and thus paying all their creditors to the maximum extent possible. The recapitalisation of EUR 269 million and Probanks amounting to EUR 176 million has been carried out and it should be stressed that the European Commission has approved higher recapitalisation amounts. For Factor Bank, EUR 285 million and for Probank, EUR 236 million, which means that state aid has not been fully used – for Probank at EUR 60 million and for Factor Bank at EUR 16 million. In addition, a State guarantee was granted for the liabilities of the Bank and Probanks to the Bank of Slovenia for the drawing of a direct loan in extreme force — a guarantee of up to EUR 540 million for Factor Bank and a guarantee of up to EUR 490 million for Probank. On 19 June 2014, on the basis of the guarantee agreement, the Bank of Slovenia called on the Ministry of Finance to pay a guarantee to the Bank at almost EUR 187 million and to Probank at a value of EUR 241 million because the banks did not repay the loan. After the guarantee was cashed, a claim from the Republic of Slovenia to both banks was made and the addition of both banks to the DUTB eliminates the risk that such liquidity aid to the banks of the Republic of Slovenia would not be reimbursed and, in the event of bankruptcy, such risks would certainly exist. After the implementation of the accession to the Republic of Slovenia, the debt under the form of a cash guarantee shall be reported. DUTB has also recently repaid EUR 150 million of liabilities to the Ministry of Finance, which it took over with the addition of Probank and Factor Bank. The prudence of the method and transparency of the implementation of the merger procedure stems from the following two essential facts. The linkage was based on the latest audited financial statements, as both banks prepared a revised final report, in accordance with Article 68 of the Company Act, on the day of the merger, on 1 January 2016, and a revised annual report for 2015. All these documents, together with the reports of the supervisory boards of the two banks on the intended accession to the DUB, have already been received in a protected drawer in the Udis system on 9 May 2016. It should also be pointed out that the Company Act does not require the preparation of other revised balance sheets in the case of an attachment not carried out in a simplified manner. There is also no need to draw up an interim balance. The interim balance sheet was not mandatory because the condition of Article 586(2) of the Company Act, which provides that the interim balance sheet should be drawn up only if the last annual report of the individual companies involved in the accession relates to a business year which ended more than six months before the conclusion of the accession contract. This condition regarding the connection of Factor Bank and Probank was not met, which means that the interim balance sheet is not necessary. The following essential fact, resulting in the prudence of the method and transparency of the implementation of the connection procedure, stems from the Bank of Slovenia's assessment of the connection prepared as the Supervisory Board of Probanke and Factor Bank. It wrote: "On the basis of a review of all relevant documents, including the revised 2015 annual report and the revised annual report of the company taken over on day 1. 1. 2016, after obtaining all the necessary information and data affecting the connections and analysing the reasons and consequences of the accession of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia in the exercise of the supervisory board of the Bank and Probank, estimates that the link in question is economically viable for the Republic of Slovenia as the sole owner of the two companies, as the connection ensures a rationalisation of the business and, in particular, the extension of the asset repurchase period of the company taken over and thus a higher cut and lower probability of additional capital burdens for the sole owner. The Council of the Bank of Slovenia therefore considers that the proposed accession is legally and economically justified and notes that the accession procedures so far are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act." End of quote. In its report on the accession in February of 3 June 2016, which we also received in a protected drawer in the Udis system, the DUTB Board noted that it could call on the owner to replace the transferred capital deficit of both banks of the Republic of Slovenia. This is related to the methodology for the valuation of the transferred portfolio from both banks to DUTB, which differs slightly from the methodology used by both banks. However, the balance sheet of both banks was audited by the authorised auditors and the DUTB used a different capital cost in its valuation models than both banks used in the controlled winding-up process. The position regarding the possible recapitalisation of the DUTB in the context of the connection deficit will thus be taken when the DUTB completes the evaluation of the transferred items of Probanka and Factor Bank and will give an opinion to the auditor auditing the DUTB financial statements. It follows from all this that decisions on the purpose of liquidity aid and the recapitalisation of banks were taken in previous mandates and that the current government sought to reduce the burden on public finances as much as possible by connecting. She did so in a wise and transparent way. We will support the second recommendation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. As has already been said, there is really no need for this because the documents have already been transmitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u33	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u34	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With Probank and Factor Bank, we have been working in the National Assembly for a very long time, around 2013, but we would not now go to the chronology of the whole problem, but would actually start where we ended today, in fact where one of the parties said that it was transparent, that everything had been done in the good faith of a good master; in short, everything was going as it had to, which also proved with the views of the Bank of Slovenia, the views of the government and so on; in short, that the simplified connections were no problem. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we say so, then we deny ourselves and then we actually deny the role of the National Assembly. In fact, on 5 February 2016 the Commission adopted a decision to monitor the public finances of the National Assembly requiring the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that the possible procedure for the accession of the Factor Bank and Probanke d.d. is carried out in a transparent manner, taking into account the provisions of Article 582, 583, first and second paragraphs of Article 586 of the Companies Act and to draw up all the necessary balances. Which, of course, means that if we now swear that everything was transparent and so made, we must also say, of course, that something has not been done in accordance with what this National Assembly or its Commission has adopted. The government as the executive did not actually do so and therefore there is no interim report and there are no intermediate balances either on the Bank’s side or on the Probank’s side and, on the other hand, there are no intermediate balances with the Bank’s Claims Management Company. All of this then raises doubts about this and, of course, with the view that everything is okay, that everything is transparent, that we have done everything, we are somehow putting ourselves in a position like we have no role to play. This is probably the most or very worrying situation today, in addition to the fact that this simplified merger pays an additional EUR 50 million in taxpayer money to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. From this address! Here, of course, we must not neglect this fact that the Company for Bank Claims Management is returning money to the Ministry of Finance, returning money to banks and so on. However, if we are speaking exclusively from this title, from a simplified procedure of accession, an additional 50 million taxpayers' money must be paid here. In fact, taxpayers will pay for it sooner or later. Also, the excuse that Slovenia has been granted greater State aid by the European Commission is not a good excuse. It was then that government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and then Minister Chufar did not take advantage of all state aid, which does not mean, of course, that they now have the resources and that this state aid is free and that there will be no need to pay for it. Maybe with the delay now, but that doesn't mean everything's okay now. This raises an actual question of doubt and also raises questions economically, not only economically and financially, but also morally and ethically. In fact, let us recall that the State, with this taxpayers, has actually recapitalised two private banks that have been in such a bad situation that they should be bankrupt. At that time, in 2003, it was considered necessary to send a smaller bank, a private bank to bankruptcy and that this would not result in any systemic problems in the area of finance or in a significantly lower confidence in the Slovenian financial or banking system. It was then that the government and, of course, Members and Members – without Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party – decided that the two banks should be recapitalised with approximately EUR 467, Pardon 472 million, and about half a billion of the taxpayer's money went to a private bank. This does not mean, of course, that there were no other solutions, and this does not mean that other solutions would not be better, especially for taxpayers. Today, when it was the best solution then, it is difficult to speak because we do not know what would have happened if another solution had been used if banks had gone bankrupt. We don't know these scenarios, and because of that, saying that this was the best solution, it's too much for my notions and, I'll say, very unilaterally, and if you want, even unprofessionally. The purpose of the controlled liquidation of both banks was to pay off all ordinary creditors. The question here is whether they have actually been paid. As can be seen from this, all creditors are certainly not paid, and from this point of view, the question is whether this has actually been achieved. In fact, three years ago, in 2013, it was said that these two banks would go into liquidation and that nothing would come of it. And as has already been said here, the question, of course, is whether it is the right decision that these two banks have moved to join the Bank's Claims Management Company. Even the professional public, if you like, is here on different shores. On the one hand, we know the position of Banka Slovenije, which was then exceeded or not taken into account – in short, that these claims of both banks are transferred to a new company established by private capital. This was the position of Banka Slovenije for a long time, I think until July 2015. This position was also discussed by the Governor of Banka Slovenije to transfer these claims to a private company, but this idea was actually rejected by the Ministry of Finance. We did not get any arguments as to why and why not and why it was rejected; we got arguments as to why this would be good. Today, we see that this would be good because it would probably not result in the loss of 50 million, which is covered by taxpayers today. However, it is likely that the State would not then pursue that private company which could have been d.o.o. to which these claims would have been transferred, in order to effectively recapitalise this private company. I mean, that would be impossible. But then someone decided, with unknown arguments or at least some detailed analysis of how this could happen, and here came the grey fox and doubt whether this connection between Probanka and Factor Bank to the state-owned company DUTB is really optimal. In other words, if I make two points – in short, we are talking about not having the optimal solutions, because the government as a assembly cannot prove that it is an optimal solution, and secondly, we have non-transparent solutions because the Government does not take into account the conclusions of the National Assembly or the Commission for the Control of Public Finance, which is the Commission of the National Assembly and is concerned about public finances. Since the government doesn't take into account and simply question the National Assembly, we're going our own way. In doing so, the coalition supports the Government and does not, in fact, support the National Assembly, does not support the decisions of the National Assembly in this regard. I think this is actually a very questionable action that is taking place in Slovenia. For this reason, we have also proposed all these conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also proposed other conclusions, some of which I have read to you, which have been adopted by other committees or commissions. Because we are most optimal in these matters, we are taking solutions that will be least painful for taxpayers or taxpayers' money and that the country on the other hand will have money for investments, not just for the rehabilitation of banks. In this regard, we will support a proposal that has already been implemented to a certain extent. We regret that no other proposals have been adopted. I can say that it is with resentment that we accept the fact that the Government simply does not accept the decisions of the National Assembly, in this case the Commission for the supervision of public finances, and does not carry out the procedures in the direction set out by these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u35	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor! In the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the proposal because we believe that the National Assembly must be informed of the DUTB report on the accession of Probank and Factor Bank. Through the media, we were first informed that the DUB Management Board of February informed the government in the report that due to the accession of the two banks it would create an additional loss of €40 to €50 million. The applicant then claimed in his request for an extraordinary meeting that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government wanted to hide the amount of bad loans or assets in both banks. He also requested the suspension of the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State, the Governor and members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, who took part in the decision on the accession. At the meeting of the home working body in the Desus Group, we rejected these recommendations, as we agree with the argument of the Legislative and Legal Service, which would not be repeated here. The opening balances were also sent by then, and this has already been resolved. We still have an update on the DUTB report. So what we are particularly concerned about in the Desus Group is that the need for the recapitalisation of the DUTB of an additional EUR 76 million may only arise. At a time when the finance minister claims that we have serious difficulties in finding funds in the budget, when we are looking for and scratching the funds for the reconciliation of pensions, we should, to me, pay you nothing for another 76 million euros in the DUTB. We understand the word link that these 76 million are in fact still unexploited from the approved recapitalisation, and we also understand the argument that the cost of bankruptcy on banks would be even more horrifying. We have heard that these are different valuation methodologies for individual items. Well, we may also be able to understand the opinion of the auditor, who will give an opinion on the financial statements of the DUTB. However, it will be difficult for us in the Desus Group to understand the excuse that there is no money for the reconciliation of pensions, but at the same time it is expected to be thrown into a bad bank by some different methodology. We leave a bad taste behind when we listen to the former management of both banks on the investigative commission. Apparently, this is the first case of collective memory loss in Slovenia alone. This should be done by the competent authorities or, if you wish, by the institutions. What we are most concerned about in the Desus Group is that, because of the different methodologies and calculations, the highest price would be paid to the most socially vulnerable citizens and citizens, who also have a few euros a month representing an important difference. We therefore support the proposal that the National Assembly be informed of the DUTB report on the accession of Probank and Factor Bank. This would be the right step in determining how much the final account of this connection, for which we, by the way, thought it had already been paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Before we begin the general debate, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Applicant. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Initially, we would like to point out that in some way we are pleased at least that you have decided to support all one of our recommendations that has been made. This means that the step taken by the SDS Group was correct. On the other hand, we can also assess that there is a broad position of the coalition parliamentary group, as well as the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that the reasons for not supporting the third and fourth recommendations are not of a substantive nature, but that you have relied on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, on the one hand, can also be explained by the fact that you are in some way supporting the substantive part that we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely the discharge of the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and the appeals of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Vice-Governors who then participated in the process of the Factor Bank and Probanke. Mr President, I would like to point out once again the concerns or very worrying that there are no representatives of the Bank of Slovenia today at the meeting of the National Assembly. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to tell you more about the reasons why they're not here. Because the fact is that the biggest responsibility in the operation of controlled liquidation is, of course, in addition to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia, which was both the managing authority and the supervisory authority in this process. I also miss the representatives of the DUTB, because DUTB also plays an important role in this reference to this extraordinary meeting and recommended an important role. For the fact is that the representatives of the DUTB were the ones who sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance to recapitalise both the Factor Bank and Probanka. Madam President, perhaps I would like to conclude here and, of course, if Mr Dragonja, the Secretary of State, of course, wishes to provide explanations, if possible, why there are no DUTB and Banka Slovenije representatives here, then I would re-apply to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u39	I agree with you and share your opinion. We have a government here today, which in practice represents a position and only exceptions have been allowed in the past by other guests. But if you'll excuse me, we're going to have a general discussion if you're a magician. Drago doesn't want a word. Can I help you? Mr Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. On the question of why there are no representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, this is not the responsibility of the Government or the Ministry, this is the question of the work of the National Assembly and the organization of meetings of the National Assembly, which is invited and on what occasions. We have always stressed that in situations or when dealing with the topic relating to the banking system, it is recommended that Banka Slovenije participates in the issue of the recapitalisation of banks and the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks. Although the Bank of Slovenia participated in the work of the mother body, it also provided extensive explanations and also participated in the hearing at the Commission for the supervision of public finances, so I think that clarifications were also given by the Bank of Slovenia to a considerable extent. As regards plenary meetings, this is a matter to be addressed to the College of the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u41	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Marko Pogačnik, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I thank you for these clarifications that you have given, perhaps these explanations are also within the competences you have, but then today I expect you to be able to answer a certain part of the questions that will concern the Bank of Slovenia and the Company for the Management of Bank Claims; especially with the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, given that the State is a 100 % owner and that the Government acts as the Assembly to have information with a particular part. The Secretary of State on behalf of the proposer, I believe that today the key issue to be resolved at this meeting is whether to recapitalise a bad bank and to what extent to join the Factor Bank and Probanke? I think that this is a key issue that is open here today and that we need to resolve. I am confident here, Madam Secretary of State, that you will answer this question during today's session. Because it is worrying that even one of the positions of the Coalition's Desus Group is not talking about 40, not 50, but that you were operating on 76 million euros. Dear Secretary of State, some numbers are circulating in the air. I don't think it's as good for both the professional and the general public as it is for you to pour yourself some clean wine here and tell yourself whether it will be necessary to attach Factor Bank and Probanke to the DUTB recapitalisation by the taxpayer's money and at what amount. If we take one step back to the debate that was on the working body, this is on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I think it was very varied and in some ways also quality enough, because it turned out to be a series of doubts in this operation, i.e. the controlled liquidation of the Bank of Slovenia and Probank, which was unanimously adopted by the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in September 2013. At that time, it was clear from the official communications sent to the public by both Banka Slovenije and the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that these two institutions had decided to take this step in view of the fact that the bankruptcy of these two banks would be too risky to trigger the domino effect, so the operation was carried out to rescue the two private banks with tax money. I personally believe that this step could have been right, because the fact is that in September 2013 there was considerable instability in the banking system in Slovenia and the bankruptcy decision would probably have significantly worse consequences than actually controlled liquidation. I am sure that that Friday, when the Governor and the Minister of Finance came before the public and announced the controlled liquidation, would likely collapse and collapse of the banking system in Slovenia next Monday if it were said that the bankruptcy was at the time. However, some things need to be pointed out in this regard. Who's responsible for the result now? The fact is, it's two private banks that we ended up saving by taxpayers. What are the reasons, and who is responsible here? We cannot go beyond the fact that both the press release and the additional replies were made by the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance, that you have decided to liquidate the controlled liquidation solely because both banks have sufficient capital to pay off all creditors, and lastly, liquidation also means paying off the owners. At the time, we asked certain questions that I think were justified. Then a surprise in 2016, when we can read again from the media that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have decided to join the Factor Bank and Probanke to the DUTB. The key questions raised here are: Why has the liquidation not ended after the procedures announced in September 2013? Why did the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decide to join the DUTB? Why have you also decided to simplify the connections that ZGD allows you? Is this about the fact that certain things are probably hiding from the public and Members of the National Assembly? An even greater surprise to us, the proponents, the Slovenian Democratic Party, was that the employees of Probank and Factor Bank were also transferred to DUTB. The DUTB, which is recognised for its high wages, high remuneration, probably for most of its tasks, which should be performed in accordance with the Bank Claims Management Company Act, hires external advisers. We know that they started doing this right from the beginning, more than 4 million advisory contracts with companies where certain individuals even had an equity share. Then we could read in the media how DUTB has a house advisor, a German consulting company that actually exhausts those companies for which DUTB is in charge. And now the transfer of employees from Factor Bank and Probank to DUTB. This means, at the moment, that the Bank Management Company has more than 200 employees. Where is the added value, where is the economy of this business? We can see from the DUTB annual report that labour costs for this company amounted to €5.9 million in 2015, but in 2016 expenditure is planned for labour costs of €10.8 million, about €5 million in labour costs for this company. Dear Secretary of State, I expect that you, as a representative of the owner, will be able to give concrete answers. On the other hand, we could now listen to the DUTB representative on the parental committee, the working body, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, who said that the DUTB is now going through a reorganisation to forgive some of the employees. This means that the DUTB will consequently have to pay all employees compensation because it is in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. Was that step known to the Secretary of State earlier or not? You, I don't know, transferred employees last month to DUTB by Factor Bank and Probank, and now they're doing a reorganisation and they're gonna have to pay damages. I wonder: What is the cost of compensation for an extraordinary cancellation or cancellation for business reasons by DUTB? What disturbed the proposaler on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself is that we were able to come to the realization that DUTB is using one methodology, the Ministry of Finance is using one methodology and Banka Slovenije is using a third methodology. Here I am sure that until these three institutions are aligned with the same methodology, there will be a series of questions, such as these or others, and that someone will be able to say, look, since this property has the value of 10 units, the Ministry of Finance will say five units, the Bank of Slovenia will say seven units and finally this difference will always be paid by taxpayers. It was even more surprising that the Governor of Banka Slovenije said that the DUTB methodology did not know how the DUTB had come to this calculation and then the representative of DUTB, Mr Rems, said that their methodology had been made public. I mean, a series of such questions, answers that surprise us and, above all, surprise in terms of the responsibility of the good master here. We can't go past some facts. I am convinced that the Bank of Slovenia bears considerable responsibility in this operation, both Factor Bank and Probanke. Why? Because Banka Slovenije was in this process both the managing authority and the supervisory authority and that in fact Banka Slovenije had scissors and canvas in her hands and, on the other hand, probably with some support from the Ministry of Finance. At least it is difficult for me personally to understand that Banka Slovenije has not reacted before, not in September 2013, because the fact is that such an annual report for Factor Bank and Probank for 2012 is an auditor, both auditors who revised the annual reports of both Probanks and Factor Bank wrote in the opinion that there is a great risk that these two companies will not be able to function as active companies in the future. I think that all red alarms should then be lit and that Banka Slovenije, as regulator, should then react in a different way. We have also warned above all that the establishment of an extraordinary administration set up by Banka Slovenije may have a major conflict of interest. In particular, the conflict of interest in the appointment of Mr Mark Novak, a member of the Probank Extraordinary Administration, who was employed by the Bank of Slovenia and was primarily responsible for the supervision of this bank. The second conflict of interest that we highlighted was the appointment of Mr. Matevž Sapnik as a member of the extraordinary management of the Bank Factor — for what? The fact is that Mr Slapnik was the President of the Supervisory Board of Merkur d.d., the fact is that Mr Boris Pesjak was the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank for many years and his son was the President of the Administration of Mercury. Also on the commission investigating this bank hole, we could come to realize that a large part of the consequences for the bad result and for the large bank hole created by Factor Bank are borne mainly by transactions with Mercury. We had already warned Banka Slovenije about this. The Secretary of State would expect some clarifications: Is there this conflict of interest, the appointment of Mr Mark Novak and the appointment of Mr Matevž Sapnik as a member of the extraordinary administrations of the Factor Bank and Probank? We cannot pass the fact either, namely that in a public communication by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia at that time, it has been written that both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government will be obliged to deposit these two banks which are going into a controlled liquidation; paid up to maturity and, I would say, even with a manuality and interest rate. The fact is, if we remember, just before a step taken by Banka Slovenije and the then government, that only through Slovenia could they observe large billboards where Factor Bank advertised significantly higher deposits than other banks, I am sure that at least one percentage point higher than the other competing banks, and that at that time the Bank of Slovenia would probably have to react or warn investors that there is one part of the risk that this bank offers over-average high deposit returns, which are approximately one percent higher than the other competing banks. From some of the reports that we have received, we can understand that at Factor Bank, that is, Banka Slovenije, which was operating as a supervisory function and the Ministry of Finance, decided to call off all these deposits early, even though you stated in the statement at the time of the controlled liquidation of these two banks that all deposits would be paid in accordance with the current contracts. Where was the reason or is this information that you unilaterally called off the deposit at Factor Bank? Has this bank compensated all those who have received this cancellation? Because early withdrawal means, I would say, a significantly lower yield for these depositors who have entered into a legally valid contract with the Factor Bank. Another information that she has rounded up in public with regard to the cost of working with the President of the Extraordinary Administration of the Bank, Mr Schuster. Somehow there was information that Mr Schuster had a so-called contract with Factor Bank for one of the legal entities and that the costs of work shown in the balance sheets and in the business results of the Factor Bank did not show the actual situation. The representatives of the Bank of Slovenia on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy did not specifically answer this question. If we look at the magnetogram, they were surprised at this question and made some promise to check it out. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: Did the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank conclude any additional contract for the provision of his services as a member of the Extraordinary Administration, as the President of the Administration, with one of the legal or natural persons and that, in fact, all of his revenues from this employment relationship or contract of work are not reflected in the business results? It was also interesting when a question was raised regarding the documents of the so-called Tivoli project to be commissioned by DUTB and this Tivoli project was to be prepared by PVC, at the request of the DutB, which somehow received information on what was being prepared to take a look at the actual portfolio of credit investments and other investments by Factor Bank and Probank, and what the connection of these two banks would in fact have had an impact on DUTB. Mr Rems, representative of DUTB, confirmed this information that DUTB had ordered the production of this document, the so-called Tivoli project, from PVC, and that DUTB had been made aware of this project in November 2015 and that this project, or this document, would have been minus between EUR 11m and EUR 12 million. The Governor of Banka Slovenije told the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that he was not familiar with this document. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask: Have you been familiar with this document at the Ministry of Finance and who has been familiar with this document and has anyone else been familiar with this document at the Bank of Slovenia? Because the governor said in the microphone that he was not familiar with this document. These key issues have also been raised by the request of this extraordinary meeting and the recommendations have been made on my part, with a few questions addressed to you, Madam Secretary of State, I hope that you will also answer these questions that have been raised to you. The questions are also somehow repeated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at which you were present, but both by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank of Slovenia, as by the DUTB, we have not received any answers or have not been fully the same as the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath. Mr Urska Ban and Mr Janko Weber should be prepared for him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The second rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system in Slovenia alone is unfortunately having a lot of negative effects on virtually all our social subsystems. It has not only financial effects, it has not only economic effects, I can say that it also has a negative impact on the spirit of citizens and citizens of this country. Instead of somehow freely celebrating a quarter of a century of a single state, it is today, and with a difficult and difficult heart to see, it is a broken confidence in the state. Why such a start? Because we live in a global village and we can actually look at how some other countries, of course, also had problems with bank holes and how they solved this problem and, in doing so, maintained, perhaps even increased citizens' confidence in the country's institution. I can say, above all, the opposition parties of Nova Slovenija, the Slovenian Democratic Party, and also the unrelated Members, we are working on various documents, amending laws so that we do not make mistakes in the future, as we have done in the past, mainly with regard to the recruitment of supervisors, administrations and so on, but it is not the kind of heart that our citizens could see that we are all together, all of us 90, interested in coming to this unfortunate story to the bottom, that is to say that we are actually pointing to the names and surnames of the people who have curved this bank hole. We listen to the leadership of the Bank of Slovenia – and here I welcome their decision that they have already written more than 120 complaints against responsible people and that these allegations are reportedly falling down the current lane today. Look, that's the problem. The weekend is just an opportunity when Members meet with their people, so to speak, and see, there are problems, there are problems in rural areas, there are problems in agriculture, there is no money for regional development, and so on, there are no school programmes because there is no money; there is no money for both. And of course, the country has actually, now we know, made a key mistake when it covered – with tax money, how – the bank hole and in some ways the banks have given the silence, it has also exposed the bank to our grandchildren, and it is those banks to whom we have covered the bank with the taxpayer's money, in our opinion, that they are not now immersed, they are not motivated to find the culprits, because they have already solved their problems. As a member of an investigative commission led by my colleague Logar, I am in fact increasingly pessimistic that, as Members, as a committee through a parliamentary inquiry, which is a constitutional institution, I simply do not know if we are going to get to the bottom of the matter, despite great efforts, despite the vast amounts of documents – which we do not get – but it is true, as Senior Prosecutor Jože Kozina once said, that in 15 years, there may be a banker in prison with us. Well, never. Never! And I regret nothing, but we really can't learn anything from the Icelandics in the investigation of banking crime. While Iceland has condemned a number of bankers, today there are many foreclosures, Slovenia is only dealing with investigations in some way and here I find that the parliamentary commission of inquiry is the most active. It is true that certain judicial proceedings must run in secret, but it would be time to identify and disclose, however, some name and surname of the responsible banker who, with unethical, unethical, clientistic and not know what criminal acts, contributed to the bank hole.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and the mag. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. During today's debate, quite a few points have already been raised, issues, particularly by the proposer. I would also like answers from the Government to some of these below. As far as the recommendations proposed by the SDS Group are concerned, we have already stated in our position that the first recommendation had already been implemented by the Government by the meeting of the Committee held on 25 May, under point 1 of the recommendation, the material was provided by the Government. 5. The second point of the recommendation we adopted on the Committee has already been implemented, 2. 6. We also received the report DUTB, d. d., on the accession of Probanka and Factor Bank. Otherwise, I will accept this second recommendation today, but, as I said, the two first two points of the recommendation have already been implemented and we also have these relevant documents before today's debate. As far as points 3 and 4 of the recommendations are concerned, it is a recommendation on the discharge of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, the Secretary of State and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, and I do not believe that the explanation in this recommendation is justified. As we have already said several times today, I think that we are already having at least a sixth debate on this subject in this mandate, that the Government has explained the decisions taken regarding the accession of the two banks to the DUTB and that these decisions have been taken on the basis of the findings of the Bank of Slovenia on the most prudent completion of the resolution process and that these procedures have been adopted on the basis of revised balance sheets and take into account all relevant legal bases. Again, even today, it is now an opportunity to get answers to all the questions, to clear up all the dilemmas associated with this connection. It is so difficult to say that in all these debates that we have had in the National Assembly, Members were informed that we were not in a transparent manner aware of the course of these proceedings. Finally, as I have already said, we have also received all the required documents on the table in these two recommendations, both the report of the Management Board, the revised annual reports for the financial year 2015 for both banks, the revised annual reports on Day 1. 1. 2016 for both banks and the Supervisory Board reports on the review of the intended connection to the DUTB for both banks. So much for the recommendation. Like I said, we'll take a second recommendation. With regard to Probank and Factor Bank itself, as we have seen in these debates that we have already held in the National Assembly, there are three possible options: bankruptcy, completion of the controlled liquidation process and accessions to the DUTB. The government confirmed the option of joining, as it has been shown that such an approach in terms of the overall capital burden for the country and the public financial impact is most appropriate. The advantages of the connection are also that the linkage eliminates the risk that the liquidity aid to banks in the Republic of Slovenia will not be reimbursed and the links will also allow longer time to recoup the assets of the acquired companies and thus greater withdrawal and lower value for the additional capital burden for the owner or taxpayers. In its assessment of the connection made by the Bank of Slovenia as the Supervisory Board of Probanka and Factor Bank, the Bank of Slovenia also assessed that the connection was legally and economically justified and that it followed all legal provisions under the ZGD. At the above-mentioned meetings held in the National Assembly, the Governor also explained the negative effects both banks would have had on the liquidity of the banking system and, given the circumstances in 2013, it would likely also result in uncontrolled departures of investors from the entire banking system and, as a result, in some other banks' inefficiencies. From this point of view, personally to me, this decision on controlled liquidation was correct and in September 2013 this decision was taken that the two banks were going to a supervised liquidation, which was called an exceptional administration, and at the meetings we also received explanations or conclusions from the Governor that you had been successful in that all creditors were paid, additional recapitalisations approved by the European Commission at an additional amount of EUR 76 million had not been made, due to the early repayment of the liabilities would be lower, the DUTB had taken over the bank's unsold assets and, as the manager of this asset, had more time to cash in the bank's assets and for a more favourable upturn. As the Governor has also said, all the procedures envisaged for bank termination have been carried out prematurely and procedures have been put in place to safeguard the interests of banks. According to Banka Slovenije's assessment, the final cost of ending both banks for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be equal to the amount of the recapitalisation carried out in December 2013, that is EUR 435 million, the remaining 76 million of the approved recapitalisation. Compared to the cost of bankruptcy – this data was also presented at the Committee on Finance meeting – would be higher by 300 million euros. This assessment takes into account only the costs related to the perspective of both banks, but does not affect the overall banking system. As has already been said, the recapitalisation for the Factor Bank was carried out in the amount of 269 million, Probanks 176 million, the European Commission approved 285 for the Factor Bank and 236 for Probanka. As I said, this state aid has not been fully exploited, but now the key issue here is that after the evaluation is completed, once the definitively known effects of the accession can be seen as a side effect, this has also been shown to us, the connection made is a need to provide additional capital for the DUTB, which should not go beyond the remaining amount of State aid granted. In its February 2016 report, the DUTB Management Board pointed out this; it noted that it would be able to call on the owner to replace part of the transferred capital deficit from both banks of the Republic of Slovenia. Why did this happen? We have also heard today and also on the committee; it is a matter of different valuations of the portfolio transferred from both banks to DUTB. Various methodologies are used by banks, different methodologies are used by DUTB and there is a possible additional need for additional capital for DUTB, but this potential recapitalisation of DUTB due to the connection deficit will be discussed when the DUTB completes the evaluation of the transferred Probanka and Factor Bank items and when the auditor also gives an opinion, namely the auditor who revises the DUTB financial statements. But this is also a key question for me, which would be very good if today was no longer open and these answers would also be given. And here's what the Secretary of State is going to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Urska Ban. Mr Janko Weber has the word to prepare the mags behind him. Ange Logar and Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I think that a lot of us probably share my sense that the economic and financial crisis, the global economic and financial crisis that has arisen in Slovenia, is being misused in fact to try to sell banks cheaply, sell the economy cheaply, and of course to write off those loans that private people have taken from banks and, of course, to enable all those who advise on the sale, when privatising, to deserve the fabulous amounts. How else do you explain the fact that, say, today we are talking about the problem of the simplified connection between Probanka and Factor Bank to a bad bank when we are at the same meeting – that is, the global economic crisis was created there in 2008 or the signs started to show in 2007, 2016, June 2016, we have just adopted the proposal for a resolution and forcible termination of banks at a meeting of the National Assembly, at this same meeting. So 2008 crisis, 2016 we are just passing the law on how we will legalise the process of forcible bank termination. All of this, I think, really shows that this economic and financial crisis is being abused and where there are no clear legal bases, there are also untransparent procedures and abuses. Unfortunately, the bill falls on people, of course. Even in this story, when we are talking about a simplified connection, if, at least at a time when there is not yet a valid law that accurately defines the process of forcible winding-up and removal of banks or bank resolution, it is expected that we are trying to use, in particular, those procedures that are as transparent as possible to be presented to the National Assembly and only then used as a principle for bank resolution. Also, this simplified procedure, which was obviously used in connecting Probank and Factor Bank to a bad bank, shows that this is not the case. I would like to go to these possible solutions that we are discussing today, why we are even talking about the fact that Factor Bank and Probank have led to the point of extinction, but I recall the fact that both banks, and Factor Bank and Probank, were actually relatively good banks until this economic and financial crisis occurred. One of the measures actually applied by the financial and economic crisis in 2010 was the issuance of bonds worth EUR 100 million with the State guarantee in order to make the bank very clear, i.e. the Factor Bank, very clearly using these funds for loans to Slovenian companies. At the time of the economic crisis, companies needed capital because foreign banks had withdrawn from Slovenia. This clear commitment, after issuing EUR 100 million of bonds to help the economy, is a key task for both governments and banks to help the economy when such a situation has also arisen in the world. In the event that the state decides to cash out the guarantee, it would not be necessary to invest EUR 100 million in this bank, as long as it has provided the guarantee for the bonds issued, to become the state of 100 % owner of the bank; therefore, it would not be necessary to invest in this bank 286 million, but simply, I will say, a transaction, if I can put it so simplistically, you become the 100 % owner of this bank. In view of the fact that interest was also vested after the recapitalisation of this bank by external, foreign or private investors, this bank would also be able to keep it alive. However, as the process continued in the way that the EUR 4.8 billion artificially calculated hole had to be achieved, the process of forcible liquidation of the Bank and Probank had also to be initiated. In total, this is practically valued at EUR 400 million. It is not possible to get rid of this feeling. The calculation of the hole in Slovenia was artificially created, artificially calculated on the basis of fictitious data, very bad data, which in fact never occurred after that. But we're still saving the banking system, like those bad data actually happened. They didn't happen, but we're still taking all the procedures forward as if they were. This is incomprehensible, incomprehensible when we talk about billions of dollars, and in the fact that the banking system was being rehabilitated even after the system of setting up a bad bank, but it is important to remind today's proposers that they were the biggest advocate for the establishment of a bad bank. I made it clear at the time that this is one of the worst solutions we decide in Slovenia. It is the most expensive solution, it is the least transparent solution and it is a solution which, of course, because it is least transparent, allows for the most abuse. This is happening to us today! These abuses are happening to us today. It would be significantly better if we went to write off the claims if we had implemented and implemented a guarantee scheme that would still appraise the loans that companies can get and went to recapitalisation and only in some amount that would remain uncontrollable could we transfer these claims to, say, a bad bank. But no, we've made a different decision, and so today we're wondering if there's enough 40 million or 50 million if both banks land or work inside a bad bank until the final liquidation. Obviously not, because this request has already been formulated and new and new demands are coming to us again and again and again, and this is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Mr. Pogačnik, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I have to respond to this debate. See, I am convinced that the law itself and the establishment of the Bank Management Company were correct. The main reason at the time was that these bad claims were transferred to an external institution and that, with the poor claims, the external institution began to manage in the best way, with the aim that as many of these assets would be reimbursed to taxpayers as possible. The fact is also that the then opposition, the SD, was invited to form this law, and I am convinced that this was a step in the time of the government of Janez Janša that we were created in two such important laws, both the Slovenian State Holding Act and the so-called Bad Bank Act, and we also invited the opposition to prepare this law. Undoubtedly, I can assess or personally think that the DUTB is far from meeting all the expectations we had before this institution. The fact is, there are quite a number of decisions, at least for me, which the DUTB has made or is now implementing, questionable. However, dear colleague Weber, it must be said that you were a member of that coalition, which had scissors and canvas in hand when transferring claims from banks to the DUTB, that you were in the coalition when the Slovenian banking system with more than EUR 5 billion of taxpayer money was being rehabilitated, that you were a member of that coalition that supported the proposal for supervised liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank. Here, too, this part of the responsibility must be taken, or it must be said that you did not agree with certain decisions or projects at the time. The fact is, Sir Weber, that the transfer of claims made by the banks to the DUTB, both NKBM and NLB, to actually the final green light and had to be confirmed, was made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was then led by Alenka Bratušek and by the Social Democrats you were then members of this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u51	The word has magic. Anže Logar, follow him to Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. What does the proposer want with this proposal? The proponent wants transparency. And what happens if this transparency does not occur if the Government is stubborn with its assessment — that we are discussing this subject in the National Assembly, that we are talking at several meetings of the Finance Committee, and that when the Government continues to be stubborn, we are also opening it up at a meeting of the National Assembly. I do not know what further needs to be said to this coalition that when we taxpayers have paid EUR 5 billion for our banks, taxpayers simply earn completely net bills. As long as the government has some secrecy, with some legal circuits, not to provide us with any clear information, we will have this debate for so long. And it is interesting how coalition Members today defend 400 million for two private banks of Forum 21, czech, this was necessary, and how they opposed another proposal at the same meeting – tax reliefs, the income of individuals who would bring this money to the pockets of taxpayers in approximately the same amount. The same amount once for people, and the second for banks, a completely diametric reaction. We overpaid our banks, I think we have to admit that. I think we need to raise the level of sensitivity to some stage when you just look, that's not how public money works. [[…]] Here I have to get a little excited by the pessimism expressed by my colleague Horvat regarding the prosecution of organised crime in banks. If we say that bankers, or those who have committed internal banking crime, are obviously not going to respond, we are simply giving a blank view to law enforcement and judicial authorities. If we speak, ah, because nothing will happen to anyone, no one will hold the collar of those who should do something. If no one in the court expects the culprits to be planted behind bars if they do not, they will not bear any responsibility. That is why this culture has to be converted in some way. See, if the judiciary does not carry out its duty, its task, it has established a system where this will be perpetuated and repeated indefinitely. Because if those who have wronged us have not planted five billion of them behind bars, why should they do the following? In this respect, I believe that this responsibility of law enforcement and judicial authorities must always be put first and demanded that they do what they are paid for. As far as the connection of these two banks to the DUTB is concerned. It would be quite different if, at the end of the day, the Government, when receiving this proposal from the Bank of Slovenia, had called for its initiative to sit down and exchange views of the members of the Finance Committee at a secret meeting where Members would also be confronted with the options we have. It would be, I guarantee you, totally different than if the government comes with some executed fact, with some explanation of the non-transparent procedure and expects taxpayers to swallow 50 million euros just like that, without any excitement or warning. I wonder how many such moves you expect the taxpayers to swallow. Have we heard today how much of these 50 million will actually cost these two banks to join the DUTB? Did we hear an evaluation? Either we read again somewhere that this amount was exactly 50 million or, let's say, even 76, because we have that much maneuvering space anyway. I still haven't heard a response from the Secretary of State, how much does the decision of the Government or any minister in this government to transfer the Savo from DUTB to SDH contribute to this amount. What a financial impact on the DUTB, its business has this transfer, for which SDH does not even have money. Is that $10 million? Is that $20 million? Tell me! Tell the taxpayers how much the idea of a minister costs and then the realization by the government, with pressure on one institution and another. Come in. See, in graves: bankruptcy or liquidation. You have a liquidation when you have enough money in your pocket to repay everyone you owe. That's when you're going into liquidation. But if you don't have enough money, you're going bankrupt. What's the right way for these two banks? We don't know. Is that enough, or has someone explained to us that these funds are sufficient? End of 31. 12. 2016, if we decided to liquidate, we would know; if there were more than liabilities, we would know that the decision to liquidate the law was, but if there were fewer of them, we would know that it was wrong to have bankrupted them. But now that you're hooking up with DUTB, we just don't know and we don't know if we're gonna find out. The DUTB promised to publish in June a list of all claims remaining on these two banks and now transferred to the DUTB. Look at the DUTB website, we're on June 21st, these claims are still not on the DUTB website; we still don't know what was transferred, we still don't know what was left there, after the first transmission, and unlike that first transmission, transparency is again significantly lower than if all was made public. In this respect, I appeal to the Government to take account; we have already paid so much for these banks that we probably deserve maximum transparency from the Government. Keep going. We know that the Ministry of Finance has made a guarantee, or emergency funds, to pay the liabilities of these two banks. The first recovery meal expires on 1 August, the following date on 15 September. Whether the DUTB, given that it already requires 50 additional millions today, has the means to recover, I think that 250 million or 300 million funds. If it does not have, or has signed an agreement on the reprogramming of these obligations. And if, as we know, under new legislation, as you have adopted here in the Government, the state no longer guarantees the DUB's debt or obligation. How did you solve that problem? And then, these two banks had subordinates, subordinated instruments. Did the State or Government or DUTB provide funds for the possible payment of those subordinated instruments in the event that the Constitutional Court decides that the deletion was unconstitutional? Now, let's just look at an example: with these two entities joining the DUTB, this obligation remains. If they had been left alone and disposed of by the end of 2016, there would have been no enforceable title for the payment of these instruments – if the Constitutional Court had so decided. And in this case, this decision is even more expensive than this 50 million, as the Government now mentions – or the Government does not even mention it, this information has been published in the media by the non-official sources from the DUTB. And at a stage when we have given the banks 50 billion not 5 billion, I apologize, 5 billion, when the government continues to try to minimize the additional costs that this rehabilitation of the banking system will bring to taxpayers, when there are no court epilogues, it is quite simple that in some ways the anger or anger of people is due to any additional bleach that we put into the rehabilitation of the banking system is justifiable and should be heard. If we do not hold this debate in the National Assembly and the Secretary of State speaks again and try not to answer with his reply, then we will continue this debate. One day you'll have to tell me how much it cost, and one day, we don't know when, we'll be able to draw the line as to how much it cost to repair the banking system. But the day that this is known, that day must also be known to be responsible for this bank hole. Because if they don't, look, it's hard to imagine that the coalition will be able to brag about the media, that it knows which way this country is going, and that it's taking the right arguments because people won't believe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u53	The next debate is Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, to be prepared by Mr Franz Breznik and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, Representative of the Ministry, welcome! Indeed, we have discussed the issue of banks, the banking system, many times in the National Assembly. But given the number of Members of Parliament who have been reported and debated, you are no longer aware of the importance of this topic. Last but not least, unfortunately, we only learn from the media a lot of times, and if there is a need for additional recapitalisation of EUR 50 million, additional financial resources that go under the burden of taxpayers, then we should put together all the red lights in the National Assembly and have many more Members discuss this and ask for further clarifications. But apparently, the priorities are somewhere else. Personally, I must say that I was surprised: for the first time, above the way, and for the second time, also that the Ministry of Finance has even decided to join Probanka and Factor Bank to DUTB. However, given the need for an additional recapitalisation of €40 or €50 million, I do not know, but I am a little dismayed at how much tax money we have already put into this recovery of the banking system. The Slovenian Democratic Party reacted correctly. She quickly put forward a proposal for four recommendations. The first was indeed achieved by the time of the hearing on the parental committee; the second, which was supported by the coalition parties, was carried out a little later. The third and fourth, which requires responsibility on the part of the Ministry and also Banka Slovenije, have not been supported on your part, and today, obviously, we will not discuss them either. When a decision was taken on the controlled liquidation, both by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank of Slovenia, it was claimed that you had decided on the liquidation process primarily because both banks had enough money to pay all creditors and that therefore there was no need for bankruptcy, which is, of course, correct, because in such a case, liquidation is even possible. The reasons why such a decision has taken place, some of which we have heard on the committee, whether it is drinking water or not, can be judged on our own. We certainly don't know what that would mean for the banking system if these two banks went bankrupt at the time. In any event, no mention was made of joining the DUTB at the time. Where, then, are the reasons for your decision to do so? However, the Secretary of State has explained this, but I must say that these reasons certainly do not drink water. Not even that this is supposed to be the most optimal solution, because however, today we know that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be additionally burdened by EUR 40 or 50 million, but now I think that there is still some manoeuvre regarding the aid that you are finally voicing, I think that is unacceptable. Secondly, it is very unusual or shows that there are obvious reasons for such a decision elsewhere, more in the sense of concealing these bad loans and therefore leading such a non-transparent procedure. It is, however, the fact that DUTB representatives carried out a so-called financial prudential review prior to their accession. The results were notified to the Government, the Ministry of Finance, and that is what actually came into the media. At that time, it was said that this would most likely also amount to €40 million and €50 million additional requirements for recapitalisation, or of course the DUTB would not be capital-compliant. That was 14. 2, 17. 2. However, the Government has taken a decision to implement this simplified association of both companies with the Management Company, which, of course, shows that you have done so knowingly. And I don't know, the Secretary of State is on the Home Finance Committee, and he also said today that this decision has been made carefully and carefully. I really wonder, given that it is likely that this considerable burden will go at the expense of taxpayers, on what basis you can make such a claim. Of course, it is not irrelevant that this was basically two private banks that were maintained and rehabilitated by taxpayers. It is not negligible that the Governor of Banka Slovenije himself said that these two banks had a more risky business model for exposure to real estate projects than other private banks, which were similarly rehabilitated in the past. Today, we know that there is a great risk and a great chance that this need or additional recapitalisation will actually occur. More than obvious, given the imprudent procedure itself, there's more in the background. It is probably necessary to protect individuals or individual bad loans in these two banks. Last but not least, in view of the personnel that have been transferred from these two banks to DUTB, those who have ultimately helped to manage these bad loans on these two banks will now be concerned about the management of these bad loans or claims, which is, of course, totally unacceptable. In his position, the German colleague SD said that we must trust the representatives of the executive branch to work and decide on behalf of all of us. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with this, we cannot and must not trust such decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and the mag for her. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I want to get back to the point. On 17 April 2016, Members were informed from, we can say, online portals that the DUB Management Board in February 2016 had sent a report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that due to the addition of Factor Bank and Probanka it would create an additional loss of between €40 million and €50 million, which should therefore be covered again by the State or Government by the recapitalisation of the DUTB. If this government fails to recapitalise, DUTB will also become officially insolvent and will go bankrupt. So, this is what we have learned from Members not from the Government, but we can say from online portals. Today, we are particularly concerned about the fact that Probanka's opening balance sheet and also the Bank's Factor after the state on 1 January 2016 have been carried out, when the Bank of Slovenia and the Government should know exactly what the situation of both banks is. Well, that's not what the balance sheet saw until then or then. Since we are mostly talking about two private banks, I have also prepared some information on the chronology of these two banks, how they were produced, how they were informed in public and who stood behind them constantly. Since my theory, therefore, that Slovenia is not in fact in crisis, is a social capitalism in the crisis resulting from the Forum 21 and the result of all the completely flawed property legislation that was made in the 1990s. Remember, Mr Milan Kučan in 2004, so a few months before he first came, I can say, at least a little right to power, so the first government of Janez Janša shows before the entire Slovenian public: we have a Forum 21, we have all owned, comrade capitalism is ours, you can't do anything to us, you can rule, we have money and economy and banks. That's exactly what they wanted to show. Good thing they showed us we know who's behind them. Remember that the members are also key players of both bankrupt banks and related companies: Romana Payenk, long-standing CEO, owner of Probanka, Roman Glaser, long-standing president of the Probanke Supervisory Board and first man of Perutnine Ptuj, who was also one of the main owners of Probanka. Then Tatjana Fink, longtime CEO of Trim, who was Pajenkova's supervisor of Probanke, co-owners of Trima and Trimo's important co-owner of Probanka. So, the total linkage of Forum 21, its key players. Let's say that the key player at another bankrupt bank, i.e. the Factor Bank, was also the founding member of the Herman Rigelnik Fellowship, the long-standing Chairman of the ACH Administration and the largest individual owner of this company. ACH was the 40 % owner of Factor Bank, which means that Rigelnik kept his hands on the developments in this bank. However, Rigelnik, as we know, had already retired with a fat discharge at that time, EUR 390 000 gross and, for several years, together with the remaining ACH management, had exhausted the ACH company. Then we have Mrs Sonja Gole, who was his successor, also a member of Forum 21 and so on. I recall that on the 10th anniversary of our Statehood, the then President of the State attended the Celebrity Academy at Probank's 10th anniversary and set up ideas, foundations, national interests in front of the auditorium of many directors. At that time, the Finances reported that Kučan raised Pajenkova in the sky in the above-mentioned speech and pledged that Slovenian banks should be able to exercise Slovenian national interest. This was also described, as I see here in Finance, 31 January 2001. In particular, professors Jože Mencinger and Franjo Štibler, who are from the fort, have proved to be of this national interest – from which their colleague, the worst financial minister of all time, is Mr Franz Križanič – of course, is applying again or how they are a model example of how these two banks operate. These people still teach in colleges, in economic colleges, they have their own private institute, as we know, which they stole from once recognized economist Bajta and so on. All of this, see, is a state that the current government is also solving: it saves its investments and saves the situation of Forum 21. That's the whole point of what we're talking about today. And the modus operandi will be if we don't look at what's going on right now, so we can do this exercise in five years. Within five years, we will repeat, we can say, but now we have recapitalised only 3 billion more; great, but now it's not that much. Look, this is the story. Now the question would be, if Minister Klemenčič were to sit here, how the proceedings are proceeding. Did they confiscate all their assets, or did they look at where they moved their assets, or at their family members, or abroad — all these key players? Continuation; Probank also financed ownership concentrations of its remaining owners and national champions, from Trim, Perutnine Ptuj, Autotechne to Pivovarna Laško. Remember Binet Kordez, they also funded him, Mercury and everything. Not to mention all the other recapitalisations, not to mention – for example, in the Slovenian Gorica, Probanka was always behind the Hotel Black Wood. He used to sell all the time, so he didn't sell out. It was sold to their colleagues. So, what were they doing with this sale? They were hairdressing the finances and deceiving the other depositaries of these two banks. Depositaries were a whole range of small businesses and, of course, Slovenian municipalities in these banks. And I believe then that when there was chaos, you would have literally stayed in the dark. It literally went, we can say, for a loop; on the one hand, they were attracted to deposits with abnormally high interest rates, outside of competition, those investors or depositors of municipalities, small entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, they allowed their members of Forum 21 to purchase abnormally, or equity shares, or purchase real estate. This is the whole Probank and Factor Bank story. It's a mix-up of 20, 50 Forum 21 people who lived on these two banks. So if it did, the profits would be theirs, but now that there's losses, the losses are state. Tell me, which entrepreneur wouldn't live in a country like this? Tell me, where else in the world is such a country to make this possible? We're a paradise for such people, look! All honour to Forum 21, they have stopped paradise for such a kind of entrepreneurship! Mr Kovac, who was then removed, I think from finance, said that this was national capitalism, national interest, national capitalism. I can call him anything. Today, too, there is very little debate. I'm surprised. Very little discussion, fellows! 50 million extras again, and we don't even talk, it's all self-evident. Where do we live, people of God? Where do we live, I wonder! Or in five years, when some of them may, most of them will no longer be Members, we will be at home from the chair when Members talk about the new recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. On the other hand, I don't want to say where we can't finance everyone who really needs help. So that I don't go into my own debate, but today it's our job, my well-respected colleagues, to look at what's going on as representatives of the people. And in the second phase, we need to expand this point, make another session. Who's already answered what criminal proceedings against these people are going on, where the money's gone, how it's been transferred, how these people are the key people in these stories, what their assets are, or can we say, under seals, is insured for at least some of that debt being repaid? Those are the questions. Look, let's learn from mistakes. They say the donkey goes on ice once, but in Slovenia, excuse me, we go three times, four times on ice without any big feelings. Three to four times. How many times are we going to recapitalize the banks? How many more times are we gonna do this? I think, I'm sorry that it's in these two banks, what's going on now, these untransparent things that we need to clear up. I can say that, as one of the candidates for this meeting, I think that the debate must go in this direction. Do we believe that this is not a matter of some kind of policy, it is a matter of some reality; it is a matter of something that, we can say, is unusual, which is an unusual and business environment, from which I think everyone will slowly withdraw, except those who want exactly the kind of transactions with which Probank and Factor Bank worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the word to prepare a mag for her. Dušan Verbič and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u58	President, thank you for your word. Today we are talking about a possible loss of DUTB of about 50 million due to the merger of Probank and Factor Bank. I hope we are all aware of the height or height of our conversation. At least 50 million. As former colleague Horvat said in the debate, if this money were to be earmarked for defence, for health care – we know what kind of waiting species – or would be devoted to the countryside – we know what positive effects would be. But the government made its decision, decided to join them, did not require an interim report or an interim balance, the government said, so the point would be, even though this would result in the loss of the DUTB, and if there is a loss, because eventually the taxpayers will cover this loss, it will not go out of the pockets of those involved or who decide. What will be the price of this connection, we still don't know. On the parental committee, the representative of DUTB said that the evaluation alone had not yet been completed. It will be completed within a period of up to two months and will then also be well known and also the book effects that will come from actual assessments. This could, of course, have negative effects of the above-mentioned €40 to €50 million, and when there will be definitively known effects for recapitalisation based on the then known exact figures. We know what that means. If I translate this into such a simple farm language, I would say that if I compare here a housing block with ten ownership apartments, which this block is then managed by a manager, and two owners of these apartments give you two apartments in a sublet. But those tenants don't pay the operating costs or the rent, so then these two owners decide to tell the manager if you put the two tenants out. The manager would then move these tenants from these two apartments to the other apartments in the block – such as Factor Bank and Probank – says the employees will go to DUTB – for the costs incurred by the rent and for the operating costs that these two tenants did not pay, but the manager will say, but we will divide this into all the owners of these apartments and they will pay for it. I don't think that would work. I don't think in this case this connection should go like that. I must say that I am also deeply concerned by the statement made by the Secretary of State, Mr Šircelj, last time at the meeting of the home committee, drew attention to the words of the Secretary of State, I think it was on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission; then Mr Dragonja said it was wrong to think that this economy was managed by different subsystems or different elites. This is a conflict of institutions: and on the one hand it is a government on the other side of the DUTB and on the third side of the Bank of Slovenia. I think this statement by the Secretary of State is very worrying. I would also like to draw attention to the statement made by the vice-governor on the Home Finance Committee. At that time, Mrs Festić said that at Banka Slovenije they had decided, as was said in 2012, on the basis of incomplete information provided by Banka Slovenije employees and that they did not have relevant information regarding Probanka. I think this statement is very worrying, and here, somehow, the question arises to me, who gave me the incomplete data and of course why. I also wonder where the financial institutions are, the inspection, where the police are, where the prosecution is here, and not least, dear colleagues, where there is a healthy farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The next debater is mag. Dušan Verbič, Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Jože Tanko should be prepared for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! I must admit, when I read this initiative or the proposal for a recommendation made by the SDS Group, some things have literally gone into something, if I may say so, an area that still has a question. And I am pleased that today, too, the proposaler has raised several questions from the debate itself, wherever they are, or have participated, and it is also clear that there are still a number of open issues. What I just want to point out is, I have to admit that it is right and it is essential, above all, when they state that the loss of four lawsuits, higher than a million euros, is at stake. Those of us who have encountered such matters in the past might say that there is probably another such amount — on the question of whether this is all true. This also immediately raises the issue of the legal terminology procedure – liquidation so that I do not touch the controlled liquidation, but in the discussion later I will also make a few more words. But what is disturbing, at least as far as I'm concerned, is written down, only if I finish that sentence, "... can we call it mockery from the Members and the National Assembly." I think that I am or are entitled to receive an answer today in connection with this record. As far as my debate is concerned – I am grateful to my colleagues that they have given me a little more time to discuss and say what I believe in this matter. The fact is that I am starting my debate on the issue of joining Probank and Factor Bank, in particular with questions that are practically my assessment of the key and the reason for today's debate. First of all: What is followed by the proposaler of this point today, the SDS Group with this proposal? Second: What is the main reason or reason why both banks were ever connected to the DURB? Thirdly: Has the Bank of Slovenia, as a stand-alone and independent institution, decided and led the process of controlled liquidation independently of the causes and is it also related to whether this procedure was conducted exclusively and concluded in accordance with the highest standards of professionalism for such matters? And third, is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the real government of Alenka Bratušek, followed in 2013 its decisions in the public interest? And: Is the current government currently carrying out activities that we can say follow the principle of the responsible owner? I would like to touch on this in my debate. If I go first to what the proposer is after, it's my opinion. The SDS Group understands that all those procedures that go solely to the detriment of citizens and taxpayers must be disclosed to the public in a political and parliamentary investigation. I have no qualms here, and I really expect that all past policy actions, regardless of which political option was in power, will apply to all. I have or I am speaking in connection after now resolved, if I may say so, the 5-billion-billion-dollar bank hole that took place in the 2014 processes, some of us are still present today, but I also have in mind the potential height for which it is suggested that it is at least the same height in the air. As a result, there is still a need for this to be discussed in the National Assembly. All those who follow the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which I have praised, and even on this occasion I commend their intensity and work, can see and hear in the case of Probanka and Factor Bank that their business, in particular in the field of credit and liquidity, was far below the standard of normal banking practice, but only a bank expert who is subject to those who run and manage, is said to be members of administrations in particular. From these hearings, what conclusion can I conclude? This is as follows: all responsible managers of both banks are forgetful in key matters. That's been said a few times. This is followed by a simple laziness assessment. Have the owners of the banks placed the responsible persons in the most responsible places in these two banks without the ability to perform? What does that mean? That these persons are not capable of acting by independently managing their personal activities, rather socially responsible activities. In individual cases, this has also proved to be true for some of the owners of these banks. That's a fact. Next. Banka Slovenije as a stand-alone and independent institution responsible for the financial stability and operations of the banks of the Republic of Slovenia, represented and represented by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, has not acted as prescribed by an internal act, which he himself has signed and issued through a committee called the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. He admitted it himself. Not to say that he did not comply with the provision binding the Bank of Slovenia on the then applicable Banking Act 1. It must be acknowledged that the Governor of Banka Slovenije is the one responsible for the operation of Banka Slovenije. In doing so, he stressed that he could not replace the person who was key in the control processes of business banks. Third. What we are now meeting in these procedures of Probank and Factor Bank, connections, controlled liquidations and so on. In the analysis of the past state of operation of both business banks, there were also audit houses, I will not talk about names, but those audit houses, which also participated in the valuation of the claims of both the New Ljubljana Bank and the NKBM, that I am not talking about those recapitalisation processes. In this regard, let us not forget that there have been different reactions in both the professional and the lay public regarding their operation, and there is also doubt as to their credibility in the composition of such analyses, which were the basis for the introduction of the Bank of Slovenia decision on controlled liquidation. The fact is that all decision-makers who caused the crash can say that Probanks and Factor Banks have a common denominator in their excuse for making such decisions. First; financial crisis, second, media and third, memory loss. We can talk about this today, that these are top managers in the banking sector. If I touch another — what is the main reason, the reason why both banks have been joined? Here I immediately ask why the National Assembly, we Members, deal with Probank and Factor Bank if these two banks were private banks by 2014. This has also been exposed by some debaters. For the fate of private-owned banks is the fate of the owners, if you support it, it is a matter of the state. What is a cruel reality — not a country, a taxpayer. And that's what happened. Who were the owners of both banks or for what purpose were they established? A few words have already been mentioned by the previous Member, but he will not stress. I stress this for a simple reason because it is obvious that those who are in the past are likely to have some indirect or direct influence today on certain decisions, otherwise I cannot explain myself. Because if that were not the case, then the government of Alenka Bratusek would not support these two banks. Why did it not back then support other banks, comparable to the size of the credit portfolio, or even the market share that we know they had resigned at that time — a handful of banks, among others, state banks. Most business banks, however, were small and also faced a crisis. I am so firm in my position: that we are talking about this today, especially in the decision to maintain both private banks at the time. What did we get out of it? This brought us into the right if I can say so, which is mainly expressed in the burden or duty of the shareholder – which later proved necessary to recapitalise – and on the basis of the financial stability of the country. But we must not forget, at that time it was also decided in relation to the Bank, and it later turned out that the account was issued to taxpayers and also to the owners of subordinated bonds. The answer to the question why to support banks that are previously known to be in a sinking phase or simply failing, which allowed individuals to be credited that they simply did not repay – I believe that it is not only an expert but also a controversial political decision. And here is the question of how a long-standing experienced financier, employed by the Ministry of Finance, a member of the NKBM Supervisory Board, who monitored and supervised precisely such transactions, could take a decision within its government to enter a sinking bank. I hope the honourable lady here today is not here, but that we will get our answer someday. I believe that the work of the President of the Government at the time was only a personal interest, not a public one, which is now being demonstrated. The proof that I can debate this way is because in 2014 perhaps this so-called personal interest has also proved to be through the jump at the Commissioner's post. Studies and analyses related to the consequences of the possible bankruptcy of both banks have also drawn attention to the view through the prism of deposits made and guarantees issued – but respected, who made deposits and issued guarantees? Not the National Assembly; that's what it says, high-ranking government officials. Here, somehow this story concludes to see why it goes into a controlled liquidation process. There are still a lot of doubts, and what we want and I am in the position, we are not going to judge the decisions of the government, but rather – transparency. Why should not individuals who in the past have engaged actively in one way or another and receive certain benefits from the State – to put an end to this once and for all. I think after 25 years, it would have been an extreme time. That is to say, if the state did not take ownership of the sinking two banks, their recapitalisation of €445 million and over one billion guarantees would not be necessary. These are information that is commonly known. The question is whether this is really all that has happened in such matters. If I go to the next question that I said that this is simply my personal opinion when I discuss this issue that there will be no dilemma, and this personal opinion is based on commonly known facts. However, I allow the possibility that individual matters are not accessible to us or to the public of any information, so someone may think that this position is different from the official policy or the Bank of Slovenia. But just because these doubts are resolved, it is also appropriate to discuss them in the National Assembly. 3rd segment j: Has the Bank of Slovenia, as a stand-alone and independent institution, decided and conducted the controlled liquidation process independently of the agents and led at the highest level of expertise? As early as a good year ago, in the National Assembly, as well as all the parent committees, I put the idea that the responsibility for the 5 billion-dollar bank hole is on the side of the members of the boards and supervisory boards of banks owned by the State, as well as by the Bank of Slovenia. I also allowed myself to state in parallel that the external auditors and advisers — I say — were in line. Unfortunately, this matter is slowing down, or this problem is also being realized. This is also evidenced by the last hearing on the parliamentary investigative committee of the former Governor relating to Probank and Factor Bank, which admitted that the supervision of banks at the time was not to the extent that it was to be carried out. He was critical of his leadership and of the institution he led and represented and issued internal or submarital acts. I therefore rightly ask whether those who declare that political debates on the work of the Bank of Slovenia are an open attack on an independent and independent financial institution in the Republic of Slovenia. Are not such statements intended merely to conceal the bad work and individual, possibly the wrong decisions of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia? And the logical question is, where is the limit of political debate and where can it be reached, without prejudice to professionalism, independence and independence; it is said, the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia. I am confident that this kind of debate will be reopened in the coming months when the talks on subordinated bonds will take place. Despite the repeatedly asked question why we have a controlled liquidation in this particular case, I must admit that I did not get an answer, because from the professional point of view of the term "controlled" in the Slovenian legal order there is no: we know bankruptcy, we know liquidation. And then there's the question, what's behind it? I sincerely hope that many things will be discovered in the future or in the coming periods, perhaps also through the procedures led by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, but it is true that this is why we are here. Why I believe that there may still be something hidden in this controlled liquidation, but the following is true. Surely, by the decision of the one who issued the decision, this is the Bank of Slovenia, it is clear to the public that in the case of Probanka and Factor Bank everything that is in accordance with the law has been carried out – no doubt, that is true! However, whether in some part we have the right to question the content itself, that is the key with which Members must open matters. For the Bank of Slovenia has taken all the necessary decisions and decisions, in accordance with the applicable legislation, by a decision on controlled liquidation, as I said. However, it occurs to two people when the Probank is discussed, when the person responsible for the liquidation is the person responsible for the Probank’s credit transactions, and the same person or group around the Probanka was buried. Then the question arises as to whether this is an expert and independent assessment of those who have drawn such a conclusion. Finally, another matter — behind the decision on controlled liquidation may also be the interest of those who have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thanks, mag. Verbich. We have two other debaters reported in this regular part. The word is given by Mr. Uroš Prikl, followed by Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the representative of the government! Unlike my colleague Verbič, I hope that such and similar discussions in the National Assembly will no longer begin. This is not yet because I would like to see all the violations, all the irregularities, all the mistakes of the past come to an end, but for a simple reason, because they are slowly becoming inefficient and ineffective. At this point, of course, I would like all those who have received, as my colleague Kovačičev described earlier, collective amnesia – I think it has similarly expressed itself – to heal as quickly as possible or to help them recover to this extent, to remember all their possible irregularities that they have committed in this regard. I am absolutely in the position that the National Assembly is familiar with all the procedures, with all the activities that have taken place in these famous recapitalisations and connections and so on. And I absolutely welcome what is in fact already being realized to familiarise ourselves with the opening balances of both banks, namely the Factor Bank and Probanks, and in particular, perhaps most importantly, the DUTB report on how these matters took place with regard to this connection between the two banks to the DUTB. It's easy to be smart to talk back, but yes, it was the wrong decision, we should have made a different one. I am almost certain that in the event of a spontaneous scenario occurring at that time and going to the competition of both banks, the bankruptcy would be likely to have a financial impact, a negative financial impact probably greater than that recapitalisation and a threatening potential recapitalisation, which was a little later. I know or I hope that all the procedures, as we have heard today, have been made transparently economically, yet legally legitimately, in particular in terms of sound management and that the decision-makers, I believe and I want to believe that the decision-makers had good faith and that they had all the relevant data to make such decisions. Surely there is a greater likelihood that all the obligations under this scenario will be paid, certainly not due to that time pressure, time rush and time span, to sell everything quickly, poorly, until the end of this year. Everything's fine and fine. But what happens if it turns out in the coming weeks, months, that there is some kind of opening, not to say a financial hole, that an additional 40, 50 million euros is needed? I don't know if it's been explained through the debate, but we in the Desus Group have been operating with a sum of 76 million than those differences between the already used recapitalisation money or the difference between the approved recapitalisation money and the already used money and the fact that it is "available" at Probank for another 60 million and at Factor Bank for 16 million. Of course, I sincerely wish it hadn't come to that. Otherwise, it is not a dilemma, if we weigh, weigh on one side, whether we will spend 20, 30, 40 or 76 million on pensions, earmark for child support, earmark for the socially threatened with one word, and for those who need help in fact and without dilemma, or to throw such an amount again into the bottomless pit. I believe this will not happen, but otherwise the solutions can be as follows. I am convinced that DUB has some internal reserves, has internal reserves in terms of reducing, drastically reducing outsourcing, so relying on services outside the house. I believe that the solutions are to reduce the enormous, astronomical wages of management, including management. I believe that there are reserves here in terms of the number of employees and always new employment in this famously bad bank. However, I do not believe that these new holes or that this new need will occur, because – otherwise I do not know the methodology – it would be very strange for any of us Members here to know in detail the methodologies on the basis of which it has been assessed how much funding is needed – but on this basis, a very categorical debate will be possible. I don't know that, and I don't think I'll ever get to know the details. I believe, however, that there will be no new need for new funds, as I believe that the procedures have been transparent, and we have also heard that today, economic, economic, economic, but above all legal, that I am not talking about legitimacy at all. Another time. I believe, without believing it, I am convinced that in the last period the circumstances have not changed so much that, in the context of comparable methodologies, whatever they were – I'm talking about comparable – there will be no need for a definitive evaluation at fair value to be found again in some of the gaps, some of the scissors that are spreading. However, if I conclude with this, it would be clear that certain funds are needed, but I am sure that the guardians of public expenditure, public finances, will be able to resolve this properly and not at the expense of the small person and weaker state resources and the assistance of the State of need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. There's still magic in the word. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We will probably talk more about banks, regardless of certain desires to stop talking about it, and despite the fact that there are also desires to increase pensions, child allowances, etc., wages, which I think are entirely justified in this economic progress and this economic growth, but unfortunately I am afraid that the rehabilitation of the banking system has not yet been completed. For the longer term, we're going to delay the full resolution of the banking system, and it's going to cost a lot more. Because of three things, I think that it is not over; because banks still have claims from banks transferred from their subsidiaries from other countries, I think here mainly the countries of Montenegro, Serbia, Kosovo, Croatia, and these bad claims still bear the burden of Slovenian banks, which is why we have so high capital adequacy at the moment, which will be substantially reduced as soon as these claims are recognised, but will have to be done with them and will also have to be provided with adequate reservations. The second is that the banking system will burden the deposits of the Ljubljana Bank – not about the New Ljubljana Bank, but about the former Ljubljana Bank. On the basis of the Court of Human Rights, Nova Ljubljanska Banka has to repay these deposits. Thirdly, the issue of payment of subordinated financial instruments arises. That's why the vision is that everything in the banking system will be great and right, I think, mostly blurry and I'm afraid that's not the case. This is not the case because the banking crisis has not been completely resolved since the beginning. Today we are talking about Probank and Factor Bank and we are paying a much higher price because we started the banking recovery at the end of 2013, not for example in 2008 or 2009; when this global financial crisis actually occurred. Today, most people who know banking, including from the Bank of Slovenia, say that the price would have been much lower and that they would have paid much less for these two banks if that had happened. But he didn't. But it wasn't because it didn't want to, because it couldn't. Because these bankers, who may no longer be bankers charged with certain bad loans and so on, simply did not want to show their balance sheets transparently. Because in this country in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and so on, and also before, it has never been determined what bad credits are, how to sort them, let alone someone would think of showing these bad loans simply and transferring them to, say, another entity to another legal entity. It just didn't happen at the time. That's when the bankers said they'd do it all themselves. For this reason, it is obvious today that why the Banks Claims Management Company was established and so on. Because there was no other option, because we simply waited four, five years for banks to rehabilitate the banking system themselves and to be assisted by the Bank of Slovenia and assisted by owners. But it wasn't done. At that time, let us remember how the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund simply begged Slovenia in some way and said, look, now you have to do something if you don't, the banking system will collapse. Just before the laborers, it didn't collapse because we were waiting, and that's why it costs us more; in the end it costs more and in the end it was also necessary to decide whether to establish a special entity. However, this does not mean that all banks had to be rehabilitated by tax money at the time. At the time, they knew exactly what system banks were; and Probank and Factor Bank were not systemic banks. These were two small banks that had a 4% market share, a private bank, and I cannot agree with the argument or the thesis that if these two banks went bankrupt, then this would be difficult for the stability of the financial system. In order to undermine the stability of the financial system. So much less because the Ministry of Finance has invested in these two banks a lot of deposits, state deposits in recent weeks and months. Not to speak in the last few days. Why was it then deposited in these two banks of the State Depository? If this is developed in the banking medium, then they will say, look, because these two banks are stable and these two banks are doing well, even the state is depositing deposits in these two banks. Then why not give up the congregation, and why not give up another state institution? And in fact this has happened, and the banks, at least one of them, have provided extremely high interest rates compared to other banks and extremely high interest rates may also be a sign that something is wrong with the bank. At those times, of course, all of this was fine. The question is today, we can talk about back then what was hiding behind the so-called controlled liquidation. Here I agree with my colleague Verbic that we do not have this term, in fact, this term, and at that time the term supervised liquidation, which was said in 2013, will go into controlled liquidation without then joining in and not joining in with a reduced procedure which is legally possible, but is not transparent. And if it is not transparent, it is justified to doubt that it actually wants to hide something. If something is to be hidden, then here are the names and surnames of those who gave these loans, those who took these loans, and those who made decisions either within the administration or within the supervisory board. That's what we're talking about today, and that's the problem. It is a problem that you want to over, if you want, also the phraseology to hide something. On the one hand, much is said to be general, and on the other hand, there are limitations to audits, specific audits that should actually be done here, and it is simply limited to showing these opening balances as well. That is how this debate is fully justified today. I'm afraid I'm a little skeptical here that this debate on the banking system is not the last. Once again: not because anyone wants it now, but because there are still very many hidden problems in the banking system, some of them have already been mentioned, poor claims still exist in large amounts, potential claims for possible subordinated financial instruments still exist, deposits to be paid by former savers or savers of the Ljubljana Bank are still there, and these are the burdens that taxpayers will have to pay in the end. The taxpayers are simply because in this case the banks are state-owned and we have state-owned banks all the time. The largest banks are state banks, because they can always have the same political set that is in power – and have been known since 1945 or mid-1950, when the Ljubljana Bank was established, how this Ljubljana Bank was actually dealt with and what was paid through it, and which inflows also came through the branch office and so on. I am afraid that there is no end to the debate in the National Assembly on this, because it is we who represent the interests of taxpayers and always pay banks with taxpayers' money. This is the worst thing that could have happened to us: instead of banks making profits, they also have all the options, they just need an additional injection every few years. Actually, we don't even know why we have them. They are probably given more money than any humanitarian organization, in fact, we know that they serve as aid to people, but they do not help people, but they do serve us to somehow take the money across the country and so on to taxpayers, but we always have the stability of the financial system as a sacrament. If we think about how much money we put in these banks and private and state funds, then I think these banks are completely unnecessary. Such banks as we have Look, as it is evident that in these years we have not been able to manage them. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. We begin with Mr Method Dragonjo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The debate was substantively rich. I am sorry that there have been many open questions and unanswered questions from previous discussions that have taken place in the working bodies of the National Assembly, so I will make every effort to give as many answers as possible and to give as many precise answers as possible to these open questions. Nevertheless, at the beginning of this work, I would like to stress once again the conclusion of the assessment I gave in the introduction. This is the conclusion, in fact, of the Government's view that in the process of controlled liquidation of the two banks there was a final payment by the depositaries of the two banks, which enabled them to cease. On the other hand, the negative impact of the termination of these two banks on the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia and the financial stability ensured was prevented as a key condition that Slovenia was gradually able to recover. This is a general view of the government generally on the resolution of the banking system, and on the other hand, as regards this particular situation in these two banks and the measures taken by that government. However, if we want to systemise the issues raised during the presentation of the views of Member groups as the views of individual Members and Members in the debate, I think we should segment these issues into three parts: one is the systemic aspects of what the approaches have been used in the decisions taken by these banks; the other is the implementation, the implementation, the implementation measures, how the measures taken have been implemented; and the third, the consequences, the positive and the negative, and the risks involved. As regards the systemic aspects of the measures, we initially said that these were the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia and the decisions of the previous government, which decided to liquidate the two banks under control. Certainly, the situation in the financial markets and even in Slovenia was very uncertain in 2013, practically at the height of the Cyprus financial crisis, when Slovenia was also expected to have impossible access to financial markets. At that moment, the decision-makers of the decision-making period, both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government, decided on a controlled liquidation. Now, whether this was the best possible solution or not, especially given that it was two private banks, that they would probably not be different. I would not like to assess this here, because the Government has not made a statement on this either. What I would say in my personal name is that some alternative solutions could also be used. The liquidation is always difficult or problematic, because banks cease to finance activities, so they stop financing current transactions, stop financing credits, projects that are being built up, stop, the value of this asset is greatly reduced and the economic value of the loans or bank exposures that are given is also greatly reduced. If solutions were to be sought to ensure that these banks continue, in some other form, either by connecting to larger banks, by inviting new owners to make these banks available to investors, which then appear in Slovenia, it would probably be possible to drive things differently, perhaps not by so erosion of the value of these two banks' assets, but by formal means, these decisions were taken and started to be implemented. I think that it was certainly an important element of these decisions, too, that the Government and Banka Slovenije were counting on them to be able to obtain part of the European money from the European Central Bank’s programmes, an instrument of extreme emergency lending. This, while at the time, partially deplored the public financial and current situation, entailed certain obligations, in particular with regard to obligations towards the European Central Bank and the approval of State aid. As a result, only banks that were solvent could be granted an extreme loan under the rules of that time. It is said that the issue of capital deficit was not an open issue and therefore this instrument of extreme urgency had to be combined immediately with the instrument of recapitalisation. Throughout the whole process of implementing these measures, liquidity aid aspects on the one hand through the first intervention of the European Central Bank, followed by the cashing of the State guarantee and the direct exposure of the Ministry of Finance, were in fact weighted for the cashed state guarantee in terms of the divestment of these assets to the two banks and their capital adequacy. The capital here needs to be viewed in this light, as usually seen in banks, as a buffer for the risks arising from the operations of banks. Since this business was limited to asset-purchase, to the sale of assets, it is clear that the liquidation scenario and liquidation values had to be foreseen and, therefore, in the procedures for granting State aid to the European Commission, the European Commission then gave its consent on the basis of a restructuring programme; first for the resolution and then for the supervised termination of the two banks with two measures, liquidity aid and recapitalisation. Liquidity aid was immediately granted; recapitalisation was also carried out in steps; it was assessed according to the methodologies used at the time by the European Commission. The Ministry of Finance in its previous and current composition was relatively conservative, as regards the gradual release of the amount of approved recapitalisations that covered the risks arising from this liquidation scenario of the sale of assets. All of this must have been viewed very much at that time, as the Governor also presented at the home work body of the National Assembly, through the contaminating aspect of other banks, the threat of financial stability. In particular, we stressed in the discussions that the SID Bank was highly exposed as a state bank, which implemented part of its programmes by not lending directly to companies, but by lending through banks and also through these two banks, which were some kind of financial intermediary and also mitigated the risk of SID to the Bank. So much for systemic aspects. Decisions were taken, and when it came to take place this government was, in fact, in the face of a dilemma as to how these measures had already been implemented or completed. It received a proposal from the Bank of Slovenia and there were also various discussions on how this controlled liquidation would have been most appropriate and, in these implementing aspects, it was assessed that the linkage to the bad bank was appropriate, even in this light, because we weighed on one side the risk arising from the ability to pay in full the liquidity loan provided to these two banks and on the other hand the risks associated with the possible capital mismatch of banks or the undercutting of the sale of assets. Thus, from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, even the risk arising from the potential inability not to pay off credits was greater than the question of recapitalisation, since, on the date of the accession, it was pointed out, for 368 million loans and in the event of the bankruptcy of these two banks, these loans would immediately be shown in national accounts statistics as the deficit of the country's A balance sheet sector. While maintaining the ability to recover liquidity aid and to service, properly restructure and recover liquidity, it in fact maintains the situation that directly such costs or that the potential inability to repay a liquidity loan is not recognised in one step as potential or as a real deficit in the A balance sheet of the country account. While the recapitalisation in this light was a measure granted under State aid by the European Commission, which also requires tax money, the recapitalisation was used at a total of EUR 445 million for both banks and the remaining 76 million. The implementation itself was a number of questions whether Banka Slovenije carried out this most effectively or not, certainly it is always possible to do better than it was done, there are not some valuable judgments, so we did not put one of those that now proved to be the focus of the activities of these compulsory administrations, the liquidation administrations was the rate of cost reduction and the rate of reduction and the optimization of the number of employees. In these segments, any extension of the continuation of the independence of these two institutions would generate additional costs in these two institutions and would further reduce the available buy-in or the loss of the buy-in from the sale of these assets. Thus, more could be done in this part and, above all, too little has been done by one of these two banks to implement the employee optimisation programme, so the number of employees at the merger has increased disproportionately to the DUTB, since the DUTB is the universal legal successor of these two banks and is through only a status change, through commitment and all claims taken over by all employees. This also partly shows the limited manoeuvre that one of these two banks had had since, if it had implemented a programme to reduce the number of employees, it would have spent its resources extra for this and would have been already in the phase, I would have said that before the capital deficit was added, it was greater than it had actually been shown. Thus, efforts have been made in the two segments of the implementation itself from 2013 until the end of 2015 to ensure that the assets are sold as favourably as possible and, on the other hand, clearly, the cost component must also be monitored. The applicant's key observation is that the decision on the simplified connection was taken irresponsibly to cover up the individual aspects of this connection in order to hide the state of the two banks when they joined the DUTB. This is based mainly on the fact that the Government was weighing, together with Banka Slovenije, what process of connection would be carried out and we decided after careful weighing for so-called simplified connections, and I will explain this again a little bit. He does not claim that there was no preparation for this to be without the necessary balance sheets. Both banks prepared an annual report for 2015, accompanied by an audit report, audit opinions for both banks were positive at 31. 12. In 2015, specific balance sheets were drawn up on the cross-sectional date of attachment 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There is also a positive opinion on these balance sheets from the independent auditor. The Bank of Slovenia published an analysis of the performance of both banks or the implementation of their termination plan. The supervisory boards of the two banks submitted a report on the proposed connection or on the implementation of the connection. Which was not done, which was the obvious of a few debaters that there was no midterm balance. The interim balance sheet shall be the time limit in the ZGD that is required under Article 586 of the ZGD if more than six months have elapsed from the last revised report to the cut-off date. Since one day had elapsed, there had been no need or obstacle to not being able to choose this option, as mentioned in Article 586 of the Company Act. The second is regarding the revision of the connection after the connection has been made. This audit is defined in Articles 582 and 583 of the Associations when the more complex models of these status changes and connections are, when the shareholders of the merged companies are eliminated either by cash payment or by shares of the acquiring company. In this case, the so-called swaps between the shares of the company taken over with the shares of the acquiring company occur. This requires an audit of the evaluation whether these are objective. In our case, there has been no spending on capital. No additional shares were issued, it is said, because a simple bookkeeping connection was made at book values and DUTB’s core capital remained the same in terms of the legal category of the underlying capital. The bookkeeping capital of DUTB increased slightly, but in the light of any monetary compensation or exchange relations, it was not appropriate to apply Articles 582 and 583 of the ZGD, because the owner of all three entities was the same — that is to say, the Republic of Slovenia itself — or these additional audit opinions would also make sense to obtain them. From this point of view, I can again make sure that all that has been done in relation to the implementation of the connection itself is transparent, there are balances, there are audit opinions, the supervisory councils have said so, the Bank of Slovenia has said so, so that we may have acted with caution. If there are any specific questions other than the principle that it is an imprecise process, the procedure is fully transparent to reconstruct it, to reconstruct the numbers and this aspect is again justified in this way. A key question that has arisen more than once is whether or not a bad bank will have to be recapitalised as a result of this merger and at what level. The answer to this question is partly given through the opinion of the DUTB Supervisory Board, which has also issued an opinion on the association in accordance with the ZGD. This opinion was also brought to the attention of the Government. This opinion is also necessary, or one of the documents to be submitted to the Registry Court in the registration procedure for accession to the Registry Court in respect of all the documents submitted in the procedure of accession, had no complications in the implementation. At the risk of any further deterioration of the transferred portfolio of the two banks to the DUTB, the DUTB Management Board drew attention to this risk in its opinion, which we have also submitted to the National Assembly. The Governing Board has indicated that it has carried out a preliminary assessment of the portfolio transferred and, on the basis of this preliminary assessment, there is a risk that there will be a capital need for recapitalisation or a capital mismatch of the DUTB and the number given in this opinion of the DUTB Management Board. This opinion contains between €40 million and €50 million. The figure of EUR 76 million, cited by the Desus Group of Members, is a figure which means unused state aid following a decision or by the consent of the European Commission on the granting of State aid to both banks. So here's the risk of that happening. The Ministry took the view that in this regard evaluation should be carried out in accordance with the DUTB methodologies of all transferred items and that it would be possible for the Ministry to decide on this issue only after this evaluation has been completed and when the DUTB auditor has also expressed the objectivity of these evaluations, the audit house is said to be. Without these items being reviewed, evaluated, their fair value and confirmed by the DUTB auditor, without this risk, the Ministry of Finance has no intention of admitting it and will not then submit such a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the big risk? If you ask me, it's medium-sized, there's a risk and risk contagion has to be carried out. One of the questions was that of the Magi. The logar was precisely about the Tivola project that certain valuations had already been made before this option had just been explored, and this was also done by individual audit houses. This preliminary assessment was commissioned by the former DUB leadership, a previous team that was resolved last autumn, at that time based on the assumption that bad loans from these two banks would be taken over on the same basis as bad loans from banks receiving state aid. It is said that DUTB will issue bonds and will take over loans from these two banks for these bonds and that the key issue in this takeover will be the fair value of this transfer. This initiative was then carried out on its own, at its own responsibility, without consulting the Ministry at that time. We have said, after we have seen the direction in which things are developing, that the links between these two banks are envisaged and that we are assessing the possibility and effects of linking the two banks to the DUTB, which means that the items will be included in the DUTB balance sheet at the book value on the day of the connection and that no specific valuations from this point of view will be necessary as they were prepared in this project. It is likely, however, that these prices will now be one of the elements of the fair market value valuation in the period following the accession. Thus, this valuation is now one of the key activities to determine whether capitalisation of the DUTB is necessary and what amount is needed. That's it. As far as the consequences are concerned, the consequences may arise with the potential capital inadequacy of the DUTB, the management, the management board of the DUTB, and the legal obligations will show that it also calls on the Government or the owner to make these decisions of the Government to be subject to the revision of the portfolio, including its value, by the auditors. Other consequences may also come from what was mentioned in the discussions. The DUTB obligations as universal legal successor have been transferred, these are obligations to employees from working relationships and potential liabilities. Obligations that have been used; potential obligations to potential subscribers of subordinated financial instruments can be considered as potential liabilities at this point in time. In one of the discussions it was directly said that the insolvency of DUB, the DUB will go bankrupt. This was specifically said in one of the discussions. From this point of view, I think there is no need to dramatise this situation to such an extent that it can lead to the bankruptcy of the DUTB. The DUTB is very stable, but it is true that by taking over a portfolio of loans from these two banks, it takes on large additional tasks, which are not as large at the very size of this asset as they are, but are more difficult as regards the complexity of this portfolio, the fragmentation of this portfolio. Therefore, these processes, organisational, integration of these two banks and their teams into the DUTB, which must be completed, as the DUTB Management Board ensures, then also by finalising the role of the people and the internal organisation by the end of June. I would like to give an answer to a few more specific questions. With regard to the unification of the methodology for the valuation of items between different institutions; the DUTB has a methodology for determining fair market value of items precisely defined. You can see it in the annual report submitted by DUMB to the National Assembly at the end of May. Even if methodologically they were entirely uniform themes elsewhere used by banks but now used by DUTB, it should be stressed that the capital cost for DUTB is higher than the capital cost for these two banks, which then has a significant impact in the value calculation. From this title, purely methodological, and various capital costs there are certain differences. These are not marginal differences because the bonds issued by DUTB are one of the series carrying a relatively high yet nominal interest rate, over 4 %, then DUTB has to pay the State guarantee fee on its bonds and all of this has a decisive impact through discounted cash flows and through the determination of fair market value then also on the value of the items. Deposits, as we said, have been paid in full. Those who lost most of the measures in these two banks are subordinates and shareholders, and they have completely lost their assets. As regards the cost of work and this data, which you have also pointed out in individual questions sent, we can say that the assessment made by the DUTB in its plan, the business plan, which has not yet been adopted, is based on the fact that they will have to pay their emoluments, and this part of the obligation to pay relief to the workers who will stop it has been transferred to the DUTB. However, the Governor gave accurate information at the meeting OFMP how many people have been transferred from individual institutions, how many of them are protected. It is estimated that from 220 employees at the time of the transfer in the total number of employees, this number will be reduced according to the restructuring plan to around 110 to 120. Magi questions. Logar — I explained about transparency. Once again, I would in principle take the view that nothing is hidden, everything can be reconstructed. What contribution will be made to the transfer of Sava’s claims to SDH, this is also indicated in the opinion of the DURB Management Board if this transfer is made. This transfer will not result in any loss, but the Governing Board says in its opinion that this would cancel the potential profit from this transfer to a certain value if the restructuring of this claim had been successful. The liquidation scenario or the winding-up of the liquidation would be a very unwelcome decision from the point of view of the public finances, for the reason that the whole loan, liquidity, and the aid in this form would be recognised as a deficit. I can provide further information that the DUTB, when accepting these commitments, has concluded with the Ministry of Finance the annex to this credit agreement, so part of this loan has already been repaid. Part is reprogrammed by the end of this year, by the month of December, and according to the speed of sales of this assets that will be transferred, we will then decide whether this loan will be extended or another option to refinance. It should also be stressed that the commitments we have made to the European Commission need to be managed separately by the end of this year. Thus, it is not at this point that the balance sheet of these two banks will simply drown in the DUB balance sheet, but the sub-balance sheet will have to be reported to the European Commission in particular this year. This is how this debt is serviced and the goal is to pay the debt in full. As far as subordinates are concerned, a potential obligation that has not yet been recognised, a clear and judicata-related obligation cannot be shown in books until they have been issued. The government wants to minimize the costs, the government wants to show the costs in real terms, not sweep them under the carpet. We believe that organisational connections are also meaningful, because the same kind of business is being brought together, the same support services and mechanisms can be used to do so more effectively than individual institutions. Why was not the so-called exclusion of a special company which could also manage services for potential private investors in bad loans in the field of Slovenia, and we also explained on the parent's working body; especially because it was not enough to ensure that the scope of the business that this company would be able to acquire would be large enough to cover the costs of such an isolated or isolated company. We have estimated that the economies of scale would be necessary for the normal functioning of such a company between EUR 500 million and EUR billion, and given the ability and readiness of other banks in the Republic of Slovenia, both state-owned banks and other banks with large private ownership, so much interest in transferring bad loans has not been further demonstrated to such an institution. I think I gave most of the answers. Earlier, as far as the concept is concerned, Mr Verbic is concerned on the subject of what is controlled liquidation, why controlled liquidation. This is now a decision or provision on this subject in the Banking Act as exceptional measures; here, if we would like to make a legal interpretation of this, we need to make it more precise for you and write it. The controlled liquidation was decided in 2013, probably for two reasons, because they were counting on all the measures proposed to make the assets sufficient to pay the liabilities and to take the so-called extraordinary measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia. It is true, however, that this was a model that was at least referred to in literature as channing down, it is said as a measure that does not reduce the number of banks in the European space. This was probably one of the elements that led to its adoption at the time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you for the floor. On behalf of the proposer, I am convinced that this debate, which has been held today, was appropriate and important and that we have also rightly called this extraordinary meeting on this subject. The fact is also that at least one of the recommendations that we have proposed has been adopted by the coalition, both on the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance and probably today in the National Assembly. On the other hand, the two recommendations that were not accepted were rejected by the coalition more than by the content that we mentioned, but more than due to procedural matters which were also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. That this call for this extraordinary meeting was justified, I think that it also speaks enough eloquently that the government is somehow running out of time for all the answers, and it seems to me that this is the first time in the history of this government that the government has spent the full time it has also reported. Thus, on the one hand, I think that all the issues raised during today's debate have been of good quality; that in this debate we have tried to point out, above all, that there is a great risk that taxpayers will have to go back to the Bank and Probank in order to join the Bank's Claims Management Company. And last but not least, the Secretary of State, that was also today, would say that one of the key issues is to try to answer or answer what will be the consequences for taxpayers or for a country with a decision to join the Bank and Probank to the Bank's Claims Management Company. Dear Secretary of State, you did not want to operate with a specific number, but you yourself said that there was a considerable risk that the recapitalisation would have to take place. You yourself have also said that the DURB Management Committee has informed the Ministry of Finance, estimated between 40 and 50 million. You didn't say with this particular number whether it's going to be 40 or 50 or if, as we've heard from Desus, it's going to be 76. You have also said on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that you will probably not exceed the funds granted to you by the European Commission in this rehabilitation of the banks. That means 76 million. Dear Secretary of State, you have also spoken in your replies about the additional potential obligations the DUTB may face due to this transfer. Here, on behalf of the proposer, I propose that you can make an assessment of these potential obligations, because we are no longer talking about one, two million. After the budget is drawn up, we can see that, in fact, 100,000 euros is a problem for this government to give for very important things, and here it is difficult to assess whether it is 76 million, whether it is 40, or 50 million. I cannot go beyond the fact of the Tivoli project, which was made at the request of the DUTB. The DUTB representative said that this document was completed by the PVC in November 2015, where a hole of EUR 11 to 12 million was found in the event of the Bank’s accession. However, I am interested in the answer that I did not receive, the distinguished Secretary of State: Were you familiar with this document or was anyone else at the Ministry of Finance? Regarding the methodology, I am convinced that what is in state management, that the methodology here should be unified. It is difficult to convince me that the Ministry of Finance uses its methodology, Banka Slovenije uses its methodology, DUTB its methodology, someone evaluates one matter after ten units, someone after five, someone after seven. The key is that taxpayers always pay this difference. With respect to the personnel transferred to the DUTB. Dear Secretary of State, look, in the end, we will hide the matter from the budget; whether the staff would receive an extraordinary resignation from the Factor Bank and Probank, or whether it would now be later. You have somehow admitted yourself, but I do not believe this in such a way that the compensation for this would then amount to around EUR 5 million, such as the difference between the labour costs incurred by DUTB in 2015 and the planned costs for 2016. So there is an additional EUR 5 million. You didn't answer about the early withdrawal by Factor Bank. In a public statement issued by the Bank of Slovenia and then by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it was explicitly stated that all deposits would be paid up to maturity. This is the interest rate offered by Factor Bank, which was at least one percent precisely above the deposits offered by competing banks at the time. And I did not get the answer in particular: Was it really a premature recall, and was it an additional cost, or were the customers who had these deposits entitled to certain damage? For it is a bonding relationship, and if something is repaid prematurely, only one party is willing to do so, there may be problems. You also did not answer the question regarding the President of the Emergency Administration of Mr Schuster's Bank: Was he entitled to any additional revenue? On the contrary, was his work contractually committed to one of the legal entities and that all his income from the performance of his work as chairman of the administration is not visible from the business results of the Factor Bank? In the end, we can only say that, on the one hand, you have admitted that in some way due to the connection of the Factor Bank and Probanks, you will have to cut back into the taxpayer's pockets and recapitalise the DUTB. You did not want to operate now with a number that would be needed and respected by the Secretary of State, see, I expect that either the Ministry of Finance, or the DUTB, or the Government, both Parliament and the general public in Slovenia will be informed of the financial implications for taxpayers due to the addition of Factor Bank and Probank to DUTB. Given that tomorrow's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where we will address both the annual report of the Bank of Slovenia and the annual report of the DUTB for 2015, I expect, however, the distinguished Secretary of State to be given answers tomorrow to a number of questions that have not been answered today. At the end of the day, a great shadow of doubt was created in the entire rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia, the last recovery of more than €5 billion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we rightly ask whether this number is definitive in terms of debates and given the information leaking through the media by drop, we can certainly say that this number is not definitive. Above all, it is likely to be one of the key issues when the Constitutional Court's decision to delete the so-called subordinate bonds and shareholders is known. I am sure, even if it has been said by Desus that they expect such topics to be no longer in Parliament, I am sure that there will still be many urgent and extraordinary meetings on the topic of banking, because the fact is that the Slovenian banking system, at least in my opinion, is still not being restored to this extent as it should be. The banking system in Slovenia is still not functioning as well as it could, or most of those Slovenian companies that are export-oriented are likely to be decided on by commercial banks abroad due to significantly better conditions. Why, though, are these meetings about banking in the National Assembly, likely to be necessary? I'm sure they will. First of all, because the banks are subject to tax money; secondly, because you, the respected secretary of state, are probably the majority of the largest banks in Slovenia at the moment, given that the Republic of Slovenia is the 100 % owner of banks, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that you are the 100 % owner of DUTB's business and the respected secretary of state, because the Republic of Slovenia is the 100 % owner of the Slovenian holding company and you are responsible for the management of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time we have spent has not yet run out, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The applicant and the representative of the Government shall also apply. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The decision on the proposal for a recommendation will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 25th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 27. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE CHOICE OF THE AUDITOR SOCIETY FOR THE AUDITOR’S ACCOUNTS OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS FOR THE YEAR 2015 The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the National Assembly. I give my word to the representative of the Magi Commission. Mr Širtz for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At its regular meeting on 11 May 2016 on the agenda item, the Commission adopted, at its regular meeting on 11 May 2016, a decision to select the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, to propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. The decision is that the audit firm Resni, Audit and Consulting, d. o. o., Parmova ulica 45, Ljubljana is selected for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the working body of the National Assembly responsible for the supervision of the budget and other public finances shall be competent to propose to the National Assembly a decision on who will revise the accounting terms of the Court of Auditors. At its meeting on 17 March 2016, the Commission adopted a decision authorising the Secretary-General to carry out all the necessary procedures under the Public Procurement Act to select an audit firm. On 18 April 2016, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly sent a letter to the Commission sending in a follow-up procedure five tenders, which arrived at the invitation to tender. The invitation to tender provided that the only criterion for selecting the most favourable tenderer was the lowest price. The minutes show that the most favourable offer is the one sent by Resni, Audit and Consulting, d.o.o. Therefore, the Commission decided to propose to the National Assembly to select this audit company for the audit of the Court’s financial statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u72	Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, the rest present! We have before us a proposal for a decision which we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is the highest authority for the control of the state budget and of all public expenditure in the Republic of Slovenia. Its mission is to inform the public in a timely and objective manner on the important findings of audits of the operations of public authorities and other users of public funds and to advise how public authorities and other users of public funds should improve their financial operations. Of course, the Court of Auditors must also be subject to supervision. The Law on the Court of Auditors provides in Article 31 that the Court of Auditors’ accounts shall be audited by an audit firm chosen by the National Assembly on the basis of a proposal by the working body responsible for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. Since the resources for the work of the Court of Auditors are determined by the Court of Auditors on a proposal from the Court of Auditors and form an integral part of the State budget, the Court shall, after a review of the National Assembly, submit a report on the chosen audit of the company. In accordance with the established procedure at its 27th meeting, on 27 March 2016, the Commission adopted a decision calling on the Secretary-General of the General Assembly to carry out all the necessary procedures under the public procurement rules for the selection of the audit firm. On 18 April, the Secretary-General forwarded tenders and minutes of the review of the audit tenders to the Commission. The letter sent to the Commission by the Secretary-General shows that the criterion for selecting the most favourable offer was the lowest price, of course taking into account other conditions. Among the five tenders received for the award of the contract, the company's offer of Resni, Audit and Consulting, d.o.o. was the most favourable. In the Desus Group, we trust in the correctness of the procedure and believe that the preferred tenderer has been chosen, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made today, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th agenda. I'm breaking the 27th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a health protection and health insurance law under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Tomaž Gantar, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! The Health Committee is at its 13th session. 5. as a parent working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. In the course of the course of business, amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the New Slovenia Group were tabled in the draft law. Mr Jernej Vrtovec gave an additional explanation on behalf of the applicants. He stressed that amendments and amendments to the law proposed a solution to the employer's liability for damages when there was injury at work or occupational illness due to non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work. Indemnity of the employer should be acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence, but in cases where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of light negligence is not. The employer's liability for compensation is problematic when he operates as an independent entrepreneur, as an individual, because in these cases he is responsible for the business obligations incurred with all his personal property. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health Nina Pirnat. She pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not in favour of the bill and presented in more detail the content of the proposed amendments and additions. The opinion of the National Council of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by the State Council of Mags. Peter Pozun. He stressed that the Commission does not support the bill. The Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. They also submitted their views on the draft law to the representatives of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which do not support the proposed law. In the debate, it was pointed out that Slovenian workers are very burdened to have work accidents due also to non-compliance with the rules on safety and health at work because they want employers to serve on the workers' shoulders. Employers who work poorly and do not comply with the rules should be further monitored and restricted to black work and employment. Following the discussion, the Committee, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, adopted the following decision with seven votes and six against: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the Magi bill. For Matthew Tonin's opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u76	Good afternoon, fellow Members and Members! We are being re-examined by the Proposal for a Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which seeks to regulate, in a more lively and acceptable manner, the regression requirements in case of injuries at work. Let me stress that, by proposing a law in no way and in no way do we reduce the safety of workers in the workplace, nor do we change the provisions on safety at work. Employers must carry out, irrespective of this law, all the measures required by legislation relating to safety at work. In Novi Slovenija we propose that in the event of a minor negligence of the employer, a regression claim be reimbursed from funds already paid by employers to the Institute of Health Insurance at 0.53% of the salary and where almost 80 million euros per year is collected by employers. For now these funds are not spent on purpose, but in the health treasury they are destroyed for anything. Therefore, in NSa we propose that the health insurance company from these funds paid by entrepreneurs cover the costs in case of injuries due to minor negligence. If this was a matter of greater negligence, this damage would be reimbursed directly by the employer, up to 20 times the minimum pension base, amounting to around 15,000 euros over the thumb. However, when it comes to intentional or intentional injury, the employer will reimburse all treatment costs, even though this should lead to the closure of the company or the cessation of the activity. Today, after practical arrangements are in place, these applications may be disproportionately high without any restrictions. Under the current legislation, in Slovenia, it is not possible to protect the employer's liability in the event of injury at work and occupational disease, as is possible in the case of car insurance in the event of accidents. In Slovenia, we cannot secure regressive liability in any insurance company, for example, by craftsmen and entrepreneurs in neighbouring Austria and Germany. In particular, this means that it is precisely because of this opportunity that they have that they can get a better business environment. Independent entrepreneurs are among the most vulnerable groups of employers who respond with their personal property even in the event of minor negligence. In Novi Slovenije, we have therefore decided to listen to those employers, small craftsmen and entrepreneurs who, due to such claims for reimbursement of costs treated by the Institute of Health Insurance, are at risk of a decline, namely, small craftsmen, expatriates, who are also required by the Department of Health Insurance for a further EUR 70,000, and more, and the country should also be aware of the potential job losses. If such an undertaking closes its business, jobs are lost and all future payments are made to the health department and the damage is twice as much. According to Slovenian legislation, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has the right to claim compensation in the amount of damage if the injury, illness or death of the worker is caused because the appropriate measures for protection and the primary working environment have not been implemented. Of course, there is no problem with that. However, there are certain limits everywhere, and the limits must also be set so that this responsibility can be protected. By amending the legislation we are proposing, we do not want to give any silence and prejudice to the required rules on safety and health at work, but merely to distribute financial responsibility for safety and health at work in an appropriate manner. Each participant must assume his or her share of the responsibility. The purpose of the amendments we are proposing is not to reduce the importance of safety or health at work, nor to reduce the employer's liability standards, but to divide the burden more justly among all involved. Once again, our proposal for a law has made it clear that the cost of treatment from an entrepreneur can be reimbursed. If there is a minor negligence, they shall be reimbursed from the money already collected for salaries, 0.53% for each salary. Secondly, if this is a matter of greater negligence, it is the burden of €15 000 that we can charge to the entrepreneur, but if this is a matter of slander, it is a full cost. This seems to be the only meaningful and just arrangement we have.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, to introduce the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The Government fully opposes the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which amends the fundamental principle of compensation law, so that the damage caused by it can be compensated. In our opinion, the bill also opposes the basic principles of the Law on Safety and Health at Work and also interferes with the fundamental obligations of the Labour Relations Act. A brief summary of the opinion: The current regulation is based on the fundamental principle of compensation law, so that the damage caused at the level of the damage is reimbursed by the person who caused it. However, the proposal does not follow the principle mentioned above, since it proposes that the Office of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia should have the right to request from the employer the damage caused only when the disease, injury or death of the insured person was caused by the employer’s intention or serious negligence to suspend the implementation of safety or health measures at work. Furthermore, the proposal further limits the employer's responsibility by proposing to limit the amount of damage caused in the event of gross negligence to the 20th timer of the lowest pension base. Indemnity is a civil liability and therefore its purpose is not to punish the responsible person, but to establish the situation prior to the occurrence of the damage. The primary function of compensation law, therefore, is to eliminate the unfair situation in which the injured person was found, thus eliminating his deprivation — damage. This is a so-called compensatory repatriation function of compensation law, and the draft law only partially follows the principles of compensation liability. The fundamental principles of employers' responsibility in ensuring safety and health at work are set out in Article 5 of Council Directive of 12 June 1989 on the introduction of measures to promote improvements in the safety and health of workers at work. In accordance with that provision of the Directive, the employer must in all respects ensure the safety and health of workers in relation to work. The exclusion of the employer's responsibility to ensure safe and healthy work is only possible in accordance with the Directive because of unusual and unforeseen circumstances not controlled by the employer or because of exceptional events. The suspension of prescribed measures to ensure safety and health at work is not one of the circumstances that would allow such exclusion of the responsibility of employers. The applicant further proposes that the light negligence of the employer would be covered by compulsory health insurance, where a specific contribution for injuries at work and occupational diseases is paid to employers. With regard to that point, Article 89 of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides that in the cases referred to in Articles 86 and 87, it is considered that the CFSP has suffered injury irrespective of the fact that the health insurance risks are covered. The contribution paid by employers to the Institute of Health Insurance in case of injury at work and occupational illness of the worker is due to the fact that in carrying out the activity, i.e. work, there is a greater likelihood of injury than in those who do not work. In addition to the impact on the economy and the social sector, the proposal also has financial effects, as the funds collected by the CFSP from the collection of contributions to compulsory health insurance are separate funds from the State budget, but are still public funds intended to provide health care to the population. Disposal of these funds at the expense of the lower liability of employers would have an impact on health care and public finances, and thus would be less money for health care. In view of all of this, we reiterate that we do not support the proposal for a law, since the proposal therefore opposes the rules of employers' liability for compensation, the rules of protection and health at work and the obligations of employers arising from the labour relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u80	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! So why has Nova Slovenija prepared a novel of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance? In fact, for a simple reason, because we want to regulate in a fairer way the regressive claims that the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance in case of injury at work or occupational illness apply from the employer. On the other hand, with nothing, we stress that we are not making workers' safety worse or reducing employers' responsibilities. Regret claims or claims for damages arising from an accident at work or occupational disease may be lodged against persons responsible for the damage caused under Slovenian law both by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. The obliging code of the Republic of Slovenia defines compensation liability as an obligation of an individual to remedy the damage to which it is responsible and which arises only if four conditions are met. First, unacceptable behavior, secondly, damage, causation and responsibility. Indemnity liability for health insurance is more precisely regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act. The CFSP has the right to request from the employer compensation for damages, i.e. amounts paid if the injury, illness or death for the worker is caused by the failure of the employer to take appropriate measures for the safe working environment and for the safety of persons. The proposal of New Slovenia therefore regulates employers' claims for compensation in such a way that they are responsible for injury at work and occupational disease only in the event of gross negligence, while in other cases the costs are reimbursed by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, where employers pay their contributions. The purpose of this type of safe and, in particular, healthy work is to prevent injuries at work and occupational diseases and to ensure social security for those who are injured at work or who are sick at work for a occupational disease, at the same time in a predictable legal and business environment that does not endanger the existence of the cause. Christian Democrats feel that the current legislation is unfair, especially to a small employer who answers unlimitedly. It is said that independent entrepreneurs, even with their personal property, even though the harmful income with high material damage has been caused by some small oversight of an obligation that is able to detect only a little negligence, and there may also be family tragedies of all kinds. Indemnity contributions can therefore jeopardise the business of some employers, particularly economically weaker, small and medium-sized enterprises. Nor can employers be able to protect the risk associated with the regression claims from commercial insurance companies because they do not offer these services at all. In 2013, the ZZZS recorded an inflow of EUR 1 million 213,000, already EUR 1 million 456 000 in 2014, and EUR 1 million 167 000 in 2015. However, the key question is why insurance companies do not want to enter this market as well. Why this is not interesting to them — because this limitlessness is essentially unlimited and insurance companies do not want to take that high risk. In New Slovenia, we propose that the employer's liability is only in case of occupational illness, injury at work or death due to gross negligence of the employer or intentionally, while in the event of low negligence, the regression requirement is not enforced, as all employers pay a contribution of 0.53% in case of injury at work and occupational illness in the case of compulsory health insurance. These revenues are essentially used to finance all health programmes, not just what is one of them, which is one of the major shortcomings. Employers' liability for compensation under the proposal for the amendment of the law is limited to 20 times if the damage is caused by great negligence and unlimited if the damage is intentionally caused. Therefore, it is precisely the point of the restriction that in individual cases the existence of a cause of injury, especially of small and medium-sized employers, is not jeopardised by the fact that it does not allow them to operate in a stable and predictable manner. We believe that such a proposal, proposed by Nova Slovenije, represents a fairer burden sharing among all stakeholders, and therefore the law deserves support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u82	Dear, President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The novelty of the Health and Health Insurance Act has been introduced by the NSI Group for the second time, despite the fact that, at the first reading of the proposal and later on in the home work body, it has proved that, despite good intentions, it does not constitute the most optimal and appropriate solution to the area concerned. The applicant seeks to regulate the area of employers' claims for damages in cases of injury at work. It is a request for reimbursement of the costs of treatment which the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute may require from one which is intentionally or negligently causing health damage to an employee. In the case of various forms of injury at work or occupational disease, the employer is usually responsible, which also assumes liability under the bond and compensation law. Of course, this is not automaticism in the sense that it also means that the employer is guilty of any damage. However, since there is no ceiling for compensation in the payment of these regression claims and it is often very difficult to distinguish in the process of determining the responsible person from whether any damage was caused by negligence or by chance, employers point to the grey field in the system of labour law, which should be properly regulated. The Ministry of Health has already committed itself to amending the legislation in the area of compensation claims in the course of its consideration. For 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's normative work programme provides for an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides for a more detailed regulation of this issue this year. For we believe that the employer must do everything in his power to ensure safety and health at work in accordance with the legislation in force in the field of protection at work and unconditionally do everything in his power. Where, in terms of safety at work, the employer has all the measures, such as a safety statement with a risk assessment, regulated preliminary health checks of employees, where workers have been tested for protection at work, where the employer educates them from the outside, gives guidance on measures to ensure protection at work and so on, it should also be borne in mind that an accident may occur by accident or even be the responsibility of the worker himself. Although these cases of severe negligence are relatively low, employers point out that, in the case of regressive claims, the cost recovery may be so high that it can jeopardise the company’s survival, which is particularly true for smaller economic operators. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the area of compensation claims in the event of the employer's liability deserves a search for solutions under the existing legislation, but unfortunately the proposal we are considering today is not well placed and will not be supported in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. We have repeatedly justified our decision in previous cases. We are based on the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service, which points out that the proposal is contrary to the fundamental principle of compensation law, which states that the cause must be compensated in the amount of damage caused and in the way of establishing the previous situation. The proposal also threatens the protection of a weaker customer in relation to an employer-employer where the employer already has a number of obligations under the applicable legislation to ensure safe and healthy work. Finally, it should be borne in mind that the adoption of such a solution, contrary to the proposaler's assessment, would have significant findings on the public funds collected by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance from this title. The decommissioning of these funds from the health register would mean less money for health care, which would indirectly harm all citizens. However, in cases that indicate that this is happening unjustifiablely, it is necessary to find a solution in due course which will be right for all, both for workers and employers and all users of cash health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you again. The Health and Health Insurance Act provides that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia may impose compensation requirements in the event of injury at work, of course from those which are intentionally or negligently causing damage to the health of the insured person. Thus, employers in the event that the disease, injury or death of an insured person was caused by the failure to take the appropriate measures prescribed by the Human Security Act have not been carried out. The law particularly highlights the responsibility of employers if the employer does not provide real data or if he intentionally violates legislation. However, the provisions of this Act also refer to the liability of an employee in the event of an offence committed. According to existing legislation, such claims may, of course, jeopardise the business of certain employers. This is mainly the case for economically weaker employers, which is said to be small and medium-sized enterprises, because they cannot afford the risk associated with the regression claims to be insured in commercial insurance companies because these services are not offered by these insurance companies. In view of the changes and additions to the law, the employer's liability is proposed only if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence. However, where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases where negligence is easier, the employer shall not be liable. The proposed solution would therefore exclude the responsibility of employers in the event of their ease of neglect and limit liability when the damage is caused by the negligence of the worker. The employer would therefore respond to this proposal if the injury was caused on purpose or if it was a serious negligence, and light negligence would be a burden of compulsory health insurance, where workers pay a special contribution to injuries at work and occupational diseases. It is true that the employer must in all respects ensure the safety of workers' health with regard to work, but it is known that both the employer and the worker face unforeseen circumstances, which are not under the control of employers and workers. Sometimes such events cannot be avoided. Mistreatment occurs most often due to ignorance or in all too many cases due to overcrowding of workers and by no means intentionally. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have already supported the amendment of the law in the month of April, and we will also support that proposal for amending the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Following the rejection of the draft amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, after the general discussion at the first hearing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposer submitted the same text of the bill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also sent the same opinion, in which it opposes the bill, and also in our parliamentary group, we still assess that the New Slovenia proposal largely obliges employers for responsibility when a worker or insured person is injured, sick or killed. This remains unacceptable for our Group of Members. In Desus we advocate a clearly defined responsibility of the employer, who must invest in the health of his employees by ensuring consistent protection at work and providing favourable working conditions, which ultimately leads to greater satisfaction at the workplace, reduced sickness, fewer injuries at work, reduced hospital stock and also increased productivity. The proposal before us is going in the opposite direction as advocated in our parliamentary group and party. While we can see in the proposal for a novelty that the employer would be liable to payment of the damage caused in any form whatsoever only in cases where it was caused by the employer's gross negligence or where it was caused on purpose. At this point, we are still asked how to prove to the employer that it was, for example, big and not minor negligence or that it was caused on purpose. At the same time, I must mention a practice that all too often shows that workers are usually blamed for accidents in the workplace. It is rare for employers to be held responsible for the accident. In the Desus Group, we are surprised by the proposaler's approach to this law. At first reading, we considered that the proposal was obviously protecting a stronger position, i.e. the employer, for the price of worker safety, which was generally weaker and in a subordinate position in relation to the employer. We expected that the drafter of the novel to take our reasons and concerns seriously in addressing the identical text and perhaps to amend at least a few of the provisions in the proposal of the novel. That is why we were truly disappointed at the proposalr's attitude towards this content, which is extremely important to us. Since we still believe in the Desus Group that the proposal for a new law sets the economic interests of employers high above ensuring the protection and health of workers, we will support the decision taken on the working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, I'm sorry, mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There's a law on the table again that touches on regressive claims. As with the last Group of Social Democrats, this time we will not support this bill for exactly the same reasons as we did a few months ago in our position on the proposed amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Let's do it again. The proposal follows the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises to unilaterally, through agreements on a new office and to amend the area of compensation claims in order to limit employers' liability. They shall, through their associations and chambers, seek to amend the rules under which damage is to be recovered on purpose, on the grounds of gross negligence or on the grounds of non-executed or insufficiently implemented measures for human security. Employers on the one hand expose the manna of the ceiling for damages and also that there is no distinction between whether any damage was caused by negligence or accident, which they consider to be a heavy burden, especially for small businesses and craftsmen. On the other hand, we are faced with an argument by the opposite party that, if we were to limit the amount of regressive claims, this damage caused by the employer by his inappropriate conduct and that would exceed a certain limit, would burden the health treasury and thus solidarity of all contributors, i.e. those employers who consistently and exemplaryly implement all safety and health measures at work. Employers point out that these claims may endanger their business and require that both employers and employees share responsibility for injuries at work. The health insurance company does not check the liability of employees for injury at work, but the worker’s fault can be demonstrated by the employers in the judicial proceedings. Similarly, employers cannot protect the risk of a single regression claim from commercial insurance companies because they do not offer it. On the other hand, as regards this content, it points out that it is a matter of repaying the funds paid for the fault of someone else in the event of injuries at work from the employer who has violated or abandoned measures to ensure the safe work of workers, adding that the regressive claims in some way even force employers to take care of the working environment and protect workers from threats. The application shall be made only after the occurrence of a work accident where the rules of protection at work have not been complied with when the employee’s duty to protect is waived. We do not reject the law of the Social Democrats because it comes from New Slovenia, we will not support the law because, as we have already said a few months ago, we repeat it because it is harmful, contrary to the fundamental principles of the protection of the employee, contrary to the fundamental principles of protection of human health and safety at work and means the reduction of existing rights. On the basis of this, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u90	President, thank you for your word. We are against the proposed law in the United Left because it is anti-working and anti-social. If adopted, the health and safety situation at work would deteriorate, particularly in small employers where the risk is highest. Indemnity is one of the forces for employers to implement safety measures at work. This proposal partially removes this compulsion, while limiting it. On the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Christian Democrats tabled an identical proposal at the February session. In the meantime, a report by the Labour Inspectorate for 2015 was also published. The Chief Inspector summed up the situation as follows: "In the field of safety and health at work in the Republic of Slovenia, we consider 2015 to be inadequate and insufficient. We do not see any encouraging progress in ensuring the safety and health of workers in the workplaces of the Inspectorate. The number of reported accidents at work increased again in 2015 with respect to the previous year. Last year, 24 workers were killed, the largest since the beginning of the crisis." If I repeat: the situation is inappropriate, the situation is getting worse. The Christian Democrats and the Chamber of Commerce have concluded that employers' liability must be reduced. In the United Left, we have made a diametrically opposite conclusion, namely, that control needs to be tightened. We have already proposed twice when adopting the budget to increase funds for labour inspection. Since 2008, the number of inspectors has decreased from 87 to 77, and they must also monitor more and more business operators. If we count farmers here, the number applies to 200 thousand business entities. In addition, in the Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, we have proposed the mandatory establishment of a Joint Management Committee and a Council of Workers for Safety at Work in all companies with more than 50 employees. The stated purpose of the applicants is to protect small businesses from compensation liability, which is unacceptable because these companies are the most dangerous for workers. As it is said, there were 24 fatal accidents last year, of which 4 accidents occurred in companies with more than 250 employees, three times more, says 12 fatalities in companies with less than 10 employees. Therefore, safety concerns at work should be increased most precisely in small enterprises, rather than reducing precisely there the pressure to implement appropriate measures. A significantly smaller problem is the failure of one micro-enterprise or another due to compensation, rather than the overall decrease in safety at work. Christian Democrats are known to specialize in neoliberal measures, such as the entry of commercial insurance companies into compulsory health insurance, or a radical reduction in social contributions and income, which, according to the Ministry of Finance, would collectively reduce public revenues by EUR 1.3 billion. In the United Left, the assassination of public finances through the ideology of financial capital and small entrepreneurship does not go and is rejected for reasons well taken by Franček Drenovac. I will quote: "The Slovenian political party scene is personally completely detached from the large technologically advanced sector. The deformity of its electoral and human resources base, caused by the deformation of the economic base, is at the back of this policy deformity. The Slovenian company has become in transition a company of small, fragmented, individualised, unintegrated, unsocialised, provincial economies. This economic base is the widest represented and most influential economic and social environment of the population of Slovenia today." The Socialists, of course, do not belong to this group and do not agree to its ideology, so we will strongly reject such ideas after reducing safety at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 26th agenda. This breaks the 9th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. Agenda item — First defence of the proposal for a law on the supplementation of a criminal law The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. For the additional submission of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State, a nice greeting to you all! In October 2014, for the first time, we had a meeting in this National Assembly, a meeting of the Defence Committee, a closed session, because we had not yet established a Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission due to various political games. We have already been in the Slovenian Democratic Party, or before, at the inauguration of the Prime Minister, I have pointed out to the Islamic State or DAESH, as they have called it abroad. The danger facing all of us and the danger that has increased lately, let's say it has been there since mid-2014. That is true, he also pointed out to the United Nations Security Council in one of its resolutions, where he called on all countries to maximize their involvement in preventing their citizens and citizens from leaving to fight the Islamic country in Libya, Syria, Iraq and the wider area. This is why we proposed for the first time in the Slovenian Democratic Party the amendment of the Penal Code in December 2014. That's when the ruling coalition rejected our proposal. Since there was no indication that the situation would improve or that the Government was preparing its proposal, we reiterated this in February 2015. Even then, the ruling coalition rejected our proposal and said that no amendments to the Penal Code were necessary. That we have all our actions criminalized, that our police are doing great. Nevertheless, we knew at that time that some Slovenians had fought on the side of the Islamic State, that some had tried to come back, that some had come back and that one of them even died during the fight. We have also heard the second time we have suggested that, if necessary, the Government will sign a commitment, a protocol at the level of the European Union and follow the recommendations made by the European Union. And if changes are needed, they are expected somewhere in the autumn of 2015. Well, because it didn't happen, and something else happened. One of the Slovenians, for whom we had evidence from various services, also the media presented this evidence, evidence that he was down there, that he was on the battlefield, that he even brought back the weapons, and that they were not enough for the Slovenian police, but that Roka Zavbi had to be arrested by the Italian police. Although we have listened to the government and the ruling coalition since October 2014 or December 2014, how we have all incriminated, how there is no problem that everything works perfectly, this terrorist has practically walked around Slovenia for two years. But what's the point? The point is, he wasn't arrested for fighting on the side of the Islamic State, but he was arrested for preparatory actions. Cases that we do not have incriminated in our criminal code. As a result, he was arrested by the Italian police, or ours at the request of the Italians. And if we had this criminalized, then the arrest could have taken place from the Slovenian side, because the evidence was. There have also been a variety of words from the prosecution and the police that there is a lack of legislation in this area. And after this arrest of Roko Zavbi, who I hope will avoid it at all times with the help of his lawyer, but delivered to the Republic of Italy, we said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we would prepare our proposal. But there has been a significant change. However, Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič acknowledged that everything is not as it should be, and that a government proposal is expected either in the summer or in the autumn. Ladies and gentlemen, since we do not want terrorists to walk around our country smoothly, we have prepared our proposal for the third time in the Slovenian Democratic Party. He's in front of you today. If you want to stop the recruitment, if you want to stop the free way of our and also foreign citizens of terrorists, future terrorists across our territory, you will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your words. Good-bye, everybody! The Group of Members and Members, as has already been said, has submitted a similar proposal and, in a given description, a proposal to supplement the Penal Code to the National Assembly already in 2014 and 2015. In both cases, in its reasoned opinions, the Government justified why the draft laws were not suitable for further consideration. This proposal is based again on United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 2178 in 2014, which is not sufficiently specific from the point of view of criminal substantive law. In doing so, they do not take into account the fact, and this is particularly important that the Council of Europe has adopted in the meantime and the Republic of Slovenia has signed an additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. It is also important for the future regulation of the area of consideration that the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating terrorism and replacing the Framework Council Decision on combating terrorism is in the process of being adopted. The proposed new 111a Article of the Penal Code highlights only a few ambiguities, but in particular I stress that the proposaler is also advised by the Council of the Court of Justice to define the crime. In the first paragraph of Article 111a proposed, inter alia, incriminating or recruiting, preparing, transporting and training individuals or groups to join or participate in a foreign armed association. At the same time, the applicant will overlook that, in the Penal Code, the offence of recruitment for terrorism is already established in Article 111, paragraph 1, in force. In accordance with the provisions of the general section of the Penal Code, the provision of Article 111 may also apply to a Slovenian citizen who commits such an act abroad, as well as to an alien who commits such an act abroad against a Slovenian citizen or the Republic of Slovenia, as well as against a foreigner or a foreign country, if it is caught in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and is not handed over to a foreign country. Thus, the entry of a criminal offence in the proposed first paragraph of the new 111a is largely covered by the provisions of the applicable Penal Code. It is also quite unclear to determine the amount of the penalty. For the so-called preparatory acts, the proposed penalty is from 2 to 10 years in prison and for the basic form of the criminal offence, although we know that the preparatory acts are criminalized only exceptionally, i.e. for the basic form of the criminal offence, less than 6 months to 5 years in prison. The proposed third paragraph of the new 111a deals with duplication with the applicable provisions of the Penal Code. However, in the fourth paragraph proposed, there is no clear difference between the terms 'calling' or 'guarding'. So, in this paragraph, there's quite some inconsistencies. As I have already mentioned, Slovenia has signed an additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. It is this signature that binds us to a certain extent that the Penal Code still needs to be harmonised. The harmonisation will go towards the crime of accepting training for terrorism, which means that this part must be reintroduced, which is intended to do, as well as with regard to the offence of travelling abroad for the purpose of terrorism, which covers both the purpose of service or participation in the service of terrorist offences and the purpose of offering or accepting training for terrorism and the crime of financing such travel. Even with the signing of the Protocol, the Penal Code will be somewhat harmonised in the future. However, as I have said, in the main part, the proposals made by the proposer or covered by the proposer are already covered in our legislation, already criminalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Liliana Kozlovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Nice greetings to all present! He believes that there is no one who does not wonder how to stop or moderate the situation or how we are in a situation where we are not going to go to extremes, because we know that this is not the way we can help all those who need help and, on the other hand, not to go beyond the extremes of the policies of action and intervention into human rights. As we can see, the government and together with us should be able to maintain and maintain this balance with the opposition as well as with the coalition Members, of course, on the basis of all proposals. If I move to a proposal for a law, we see already in the introduction that the proposaler states that reform of the Penal Code is necessary, but that there is a need to respect the European legal order and international commitments. At the same time, it itself states in its introduction that it already defines the forms of terrorism and also creates the crime by referring to terrorism directed against the Republic of Slovenia, as well as international terrorism threatening other countries or international organisations. It also says that acts relating to terrorist activities are legally regulated. The case of Rok Zavbi, who was also mentioned again in the applicant's position earlier, inspired the opposition by the third time that it had tabled the proposal of the Penal Code. In all three cases, it refers to the United Nations Security Council Resolution and proposes a slightly different arrangement, it is said from the case to the case, which in itself says that their proposal is already inconsistence and the proposaler himself is not sure how to deal with this issue legally. In the Group of the parties of the modern centre, we stress that our Penal Code has criminalized all the forms necessary to prosecute foreign fighters as well. In the specific case mentioned in the case of Rok Zavbi, it was not that the police had insufficient evidence, the police collected evidence and filed a criminal complaint against the person, and the fact is that the prosecution found that there was insufficient evidence to support the crime. Given that in an area where these acts are taking place, where foreign fighters are fighting, it is extremely difficult to collect evidence, it is somehow logical that this evidence is not enough. More than just the issue of incrimination, however, it is a question of whether law enforcement authorities have sufficient means of detection, and that is also what our police are talking about. It is the right to monitor an individual, including through the world's Internet, and to look into his communication that is very disturbing to the proposer, but the activities of the perpetrators are increasingly moving there. We agree that reform is needed in the spirit of unifying European Union law, but not on the basis of the resolution referred to by the proposer, but on the basis of an additional protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. According to it, the Government has also drawn up a proposal and sent it into inter-sectoral coordination and has also offered an opinion to the public, both professional and interested. And when cross-cutting, law enforcement authorities will be able to say whether they have sufficient methods and forms to detect these crimes. And while some members of the parliamentary group sometimes say that we should call on human rights, take care of the security of our country, in the SMC Group we report that in uncertain times the only right guarantee is respect for human rights, otherwise we can be followed – today they, tomorrow we. The law is not in accordance with the principle of legality in criminal law and not in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will not support it in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u98	Dearly beloved everyone, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! Brexit, Brexit – the word that will be spoken most in Slovenian media in the morning. And even in the National Assembly, which is still acting like all things are as they were 10 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has changed! And it's time for you to change your view, too, to notice that things are no longer the same as they were, and that you will have to prepare for some new form of life, for which today it is very difficult to predict what it will be, because it is very likely that Brexit will succeed, very much. And then he'll follow the Dominion system. At least 7 countries are already thinking out loud about getting out of the European Union. Even if Brexit accidentally fails, after some very lucky coincidence with an extremely narrow outcome, Europe will never be the same as it was. And it would be time for you to get to know this, ladies and gentlemen, and not act like you did last year, when your colleague from Brežice said that when we were on TV together, when I argued that it was necessary to prepare for the problem of illegal migrants, he said, yes, the migrants were still a long way away back then, you could have warned about it, but we were on leave. Now, ladies and gentlemen, don't rush into vacations. This is no time for vacation. Indeed it is not, for from what has been revealed last year, when one part of the European institutions, and unfortunately also the Slovenian Government, has taken the right to unlawfully against the regulations, to put down the hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants through Slovenia, the consequences will now be. This is not the way you try, of course, and with the help of your media to show the public, yes, because this is all arranged now, everything is under control. Hell, nothing's under control. The consequences are coming now. For the first time, the Germans began to return what I had always argued, individuals to the countries where they were first described, but this is a small part of the problem. Then they follow the odds. When Mr Cerar spoke a year ago, yes, here in Slovenia he will belong to a system of quotas of 16 to 20 people. Oh, come on, come on! How many do we have now? There are 800 already promised, and the European Commission is forecasting an increase in quotas especially for less burdened countries. And that's not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that Europe is changing dramatically. Europe's policy is changing and, worst of all, security in Europe is changing. Europe is no longer a secure community. Not an individual country, not a community as a whole. Because of the thoughtlessness of the past. But here we are not just talking about last year, but about a longer period when everything was taken uncritically and things were not being checked and we forgot what radical Islam was, which had spread like cancer across Europe. And today, it's always opening up, and it's a surprise if something's wrong. It is only a surprise how some are moving and how some have forgotten why countries were created in the first place. States have been created to ensure that there is no free border crossing when someone is in love, but that this is in accordance with some procedure, in accordance with the laws of the individual country and with appropriate supervision, and to ensure the safety and well-being of their citizens and citizens. This is the task of the state, ladies and gentlemen. And exactly what is the subject of today's SDS proposal is ensuring greater security for citizens and citizens, who, of course, are still at risk by radical Islam. That's something to think about in time. As we have witnessed in the past period, it is said that either the next generations of original migrants can also be born on European soils, which in turn is very sad, but also some individuals who have not experienced Islam before have radicalised. It didn't just come from itself. This was the result of a long process when individuals were agitating, addressing others, allowing them to travel, training, and indoctrination. Then, after a certain period of time, these individuals went suddenly as radicalized into a foreign country to fight for a terrorist organization. And now this terrorist organization is in trouble, big and bigger, believe me, because it literally hits the whole world. And what's gonna happen? Not counting on anyone to take responsibility there, at least definitely Turkey. These people will come back anyway. Some came back mixed up among the migrant crowd last year, some in other ways, some, believe me, will still be. At that time it will be necessary to draw the line, because otherwise this cancer will grow further, ever new metastases will be, ever new threats will be for people, ever new acts of terrorism. Then there won't be any, but even the slightest apology if someone says again, to her, how surprised we are. Yeah, come on, stop it! No one should be more surprised at what is happening, and this must be dealt with responsibly. The first thing, and this is the legislator's task, is to change the laws accordingly, to prepare them for new challenges, is that the ban on the Penal Code, as it says in law, ultimima raceo – the last choice, but here is no other option. If it does not address these measures, it is not possible to effectively prevent threats to citizens and citizens. And this actually threatens not only the security, but also the well-being of people. And that such a situation has long been present in Slovenia, we have been able to convince ourselves several times at the meetings of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, which I run, where the representatives of the criminal police are, and the Director of the Slovenian Police, with the presence of the Minister of State, have repeatedly warned that they do not have an effective legal basis to act in cases of recruitment or other preparatory activities for terrorist acts, as was the case with the Secretary of State, that they do not have an effective legal remedy and that we would like to have it. We've proposed a solution, but we've done the best we can, none of which is ideal, we've been ready to talk. What was the result? The ruling coalition has already rejected it a year and a half ago, and we will do this in a comprehensive manner, and it is not necessary, because we already have this already arranged, and when it does, we will arrange it in accordance with the rules and so on. Run, run! And then what happened? Nothing until today, dot. And then we proposed again. We've tried to improve the text a little bit. Once again, with only one small difference – then it was argued, since it is not necessary at all, we have it covered. We asked the police once again, those who are the first to face these problems. They said that we do not have an effective legal remedy, even if, for example, Sova tells us that when we should act, I cannot act, in such a case no, there must be further action, only then can we act. And that's why we proposed the law once again. Have you accepted the offer when it comes to security, where consensus should be? No, you turned the whole thing down again. And you said you'd take care of it. Look, it's a year and a half now. During that time, Slovenia was given a rather shameful lesson that Mr Zavbi was asked by the Italians for recruitment, due to preparatory acts on terrorism. Exactly what we are talking about all the time, and before that we are warned and duly warned by the Slovenian police. And now we propose the law for the third time. You're saying some things aren't precise enough and they're not fixed. Great. That's why they're amendments, ladies and gentlemen. It would be time to settle this matter once, because this way is not only shameful, but primarily irresponsible to Slovenian citizens and citizens. And he is not responsible in particular for the changing Europe. Should I tell Brexit three more times that you'll understand what's going on? In any event, Europe will slowly fall into a number of parts that will ask each other how they are organised and how much they are actually going to cooperate. At present, exemplary cooperation is only within the Visegra Group, and everything else does not deserve a name organised by chaos anymore, disorganized chaos would now be an appropriate description for the average European conduct. Yesterday, I attended a meeting of the Presidents of the Supervisory Institutions, which is called the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission and the main point was that there was no adequate data exchange and that there was not enough effective fight against terrorism on European soil. At global level, too, this is a major problem. And what can be done to improve this problem? The answer is simple; first, it must be placed in front of its threshold. If we don't have incriminating acts ourselves, if we don't even allow the police who are asking for powers to protect people to do so, then, excuse me, there's someone who's forgotten why he's here, and he's irresponsible and he should get out of politics right now. And don't tell me you're gonna fix this. It's been a year and a half. In this year and a half, nearly half a million illegals were stranded across Slovenia, some apparently not with good intentions. At that time, there were tens of thousands, even hundreds of dead in terrorist attacks, on European soil. At that time, according to Europol's report, 211 terrorist attacks were prevented or, unfortunately, committed in some cases. So this is the reality we're facing, and this is where we need to act preventively. It is necessary to prevent matters from happening at the initial stage when it comes to persuasion, when it comes to radicalisation, when it comes to transport, for all the other things that eventually lead to whether or not someone becomes a warrior there in a terrorist organisation or continues on behalf of it or on behalf of God knows which ideology by such behaviour on European soil. It is not an SDS initiative or the SDS idea that this is not properly regulated. This was given by the Slovenian police, who said about cases such as Mr Zavbi, we do not have an effective means of action to prevent further and negative developments, radicalisation, departures abroad, actions that then lead to people, ordinary killings, being radicalised returning and then the only question is when the ticking bomb will also be launched on European soil. And believe that sooner or later. It is not said that everyone will do so, but even if there will be only one part of them, no one has the right to expose people to the dangers that this poses. At the very least, it is necessary to give appropriate tools into the hands of those who are the first to be called and responsible, the competent services, in a given case with the police at the head. And that's exactly what today is about. We will support this law in the SDS, but we also expect the coalition to vote in favour if it has at least a minimum responsibility to people and to itself. We waited a year and a half. A year and a half, in which a lot of very sad, tragic things happened. A year and a half in which you have already rejected similar proposals twice. But things are going in their direction and we are a negative example even for neighbors who are more or less already making a public fool to come to Slovenia, but as a terrorist you are protected, because no one here can do anything, because we don't even have the right legislation to talk about everything else. This is the real situation in Slovenia and you are responsible for it. Coalition, I don't know why he won't accept at least when it comes to the safety of the people offered by the hands of the opposition. The law that we proposed could have been adopted already a year ago, could have been duly amended, finalized, perfected to the point if we wanted to. But your political prestige is more important to you than the safety and life of people. Obviously. Because in a year and a half nothing happened. And don't talk, we've prepared something, and we're going to discuss it in public. Well, don't be silly. A year and a half, ladies and gentlemen. You know what happened this year and a half. And that's just your responsibility. We simply cannot understand this in the SDS, so once again we have proposed a law and I call again, let us do everything possible for human security, let us confirm the law, if necessary, what else we are amending, and the law can take effect as soon as possible so that such cases do not take place. For he who thinks that so far cases have been given, all men are greatly mistaken. You know that there are at least two other names of two families in public that are supposed to be somewhere in Jihad there in Syria or in the Middle East and that there are several more names to radicalize. And most interestingly, I have recently received some more information about individuals showing up, even in those services, because they have access to weapons that are more or less publicly expressing their Wahhabi beliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's high time you woke up. If nothing else wakes you, I hope you will be the word I said at the beginning – Brexit. And, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u99	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. I'm sorry. I was wrong. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia first, for her Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to begin by saying that we have dealt with similar amendments to the Penal Code by the same motioners twice, for the first time at the end of 2014, and then immediately at the beginning of 2015, and since then the proposal for a law has not changed significantly, nor has the position of our parliamentary group towards this law. The proposed addition to the Penal Code is intended to regulate participation in a foreign armed group. The new article incriminates, inter alia, travel abroad with a view to carrying out terrorist acts or trainings for such offences. As in the previous positions of the Desus Group, I would like to point out in the opening that the criminal law area needs to be changed with all due diligence and in accordance with the principle of legality. Unfortunately, the proposed novels do not follow these guidelines, because the provisions are quite vague and in certain parts they are also covered by the current regulation. Some proposed solutions are already adequately regulated in the applicable Penal Code, such as the crime of recruiting for terrorism. In its opinion on the proposed amendment, the Council of Justice also drew attention to the need for greater precision in defining the crime. Although we understand the objectives of the proposalrs in the Desus Group, we believe that criminal and other legislation cannot be changed to the neck. Therefore, as soon as an outstanding case arises in public, to withdraw from the bill’s drawer a little change or supplement it and invest it in the legislative process. It is true that this is a very nice move, but in the Desus Group we do not agree to such conduct. The fact is that terrorism is a global problem and everything must be done in Slovenia and in the international community to prevent and suppress such acts. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia has already signed an additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Even before the ratification of the Protocol in the National Assembly, the Government will also submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for amendments to the Penal Code, which will also regulate the area governed by that Protocol. The Ministry of Justice has already referred the amendment of the Penal Code to professional coordination. In the Desus Group, we support the Ministry's efforts to regulate the field of terrorism prevention in a comprehensive and not partial way on fast-written novels. It is a highly sensitive area and with reckless solutions we can also do great damage, especially it can be excessively and disproportionately encroaching on human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will therefore not support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. We expect, however, that the Government will, as soon as possible, submit to the legislative procedure a proposal for a amendment to the Penal Code and that the ratification of the additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism will soon follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u101	Now it is true that the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats, like everyone else, are concerned about the events of the international dimension associated with the operation of various terrorist organisations, and especially with the spread and magnification of ideas, as well as with them, the actions that these organisations and individuals are carrying out in many regions around the world, are increasingly and increasingly closer to us. We are, of course, particularly concerned about the decisions of individual citizens and citizens, including our countries, as well as other European Union countries and some particularly close in our region, to take part in the actions and actions of DAESH and other related organisations of paramilitary or terrorist groups. That is why we join the Social Democrats in all those who believe that terrorism poses a threat to the security, freedom and values on which both our statehood and the modern European Union are based. In analysing the events of recent years, we also note that the financial and economic crisis has, unfortunately, created a situation when we focused on banks and less on people, on their difficulties, on the failure of integration policies and, above all, we have not seen the problem brought about by the new identity framework. The European Union could not answer the basic questions of its people. And since, of course, we did not adequately address these most basic issues from poverty onward, today Europe is also facing the issue of terrorism. Not just as something that comes from the outside, but as something that we didn't respond to raise at home. Social Democrats support all efforts by the international community on a common approach to the fight against terrorism. Against the promotion and recruitment of people into terrorist organisations. This is a global problem that can only be solved by the international community in cooperation. Above all, by tolerance and acceptance of diversity, without social exclusion, and without creating and instilling a policy of fear. A significant number of strategies, action plans, actions, actions that we have also intervened in people's integrity have been adopted against organised terrorism. Of course, it is not possible to overlook the resolutions adopted by the Security Council and the General Assembly of the United Nations, including binding Resolution 2178. At the level of the European Union and the Council of Europe, at the same time, instruments have been activated, which have already been and will continue to be addressed and regulated at a broader level, both in Europe and in our immediate neighbourhood. Thus, an additional protocol on terrorist fighters to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism is already on the table and, of course, an appropriate directive is also in place at the level of the European Union. From all of this, and also from the fact that we have dealt with the issue with more or less identical content for the third time, the Social Democrats also believe this time in the appropriateness of the Government's explanation that the proposal of the Penal Code at this point is not necessary, that is, the amendment of the Code, and that, as a result, the proposal before us today is inappropriate for further consideration, which does not mean that the topic under consideration is not important, but that we may address its wrong aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u103	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal by the SDS to amend the Penal Code has been under consideration for the third time today. This is a clear indication that the purpose of the applicants is not to find concrete solutions to improve the situation. If this were indeed the sincere intention of the SDS in the third attempt, it would likely already take into account the comments and warnings that the Government has already given again, for the third time, in the third attempt. The aim and purpose of the SDS is therefore quite different – to raise political points on public sensitive topics. In this way, the SDS shall ensure for each meeting that at least one item on the agenda relates either to refugees or to terrorists with whom they often want to equalise refugees. However, the debate is the same regardless of the subject, and the SDS wants to continue to inspire the public, at all costs, the impression that emergency situations are in place. And for these quasi emergencies, they want to blame the fugitives on their noses. As a result, we will witness, as ever, the promotion of hatred against refugees who flee to Europe from almost certain deaths. Against refugees who, due to the European Union's failed policies, do not receive the protection they urgently need. Instead, thousands die at all the external borders of Europe's fortress. But the proponents don't care about these facts. They're taking their line, no matter what the facts are. Refugees are for SDS only and only migrants. Migrants who deserve no protection. And today, it is likely that all efforts will be refocused on the public trying to convince them that refugees are nothing more than terrorists. There will certainly be little need to talk about finding solutions to terrorism today. The fact is, terrorism is a structural phenomenon. But this fact is that the SDS are not even aware of the coalition. This problem will not be solved by the proposal we have before us today. Nor will this problem be solved by the missed policies of the European Union. The European Union's failed policies are those that are only deepening this problem. In the United Left, we do not cultivate any sympathy for extremist religious movements in Iraq and Syria. We also condemn all acts of terrorism, not just those that occur in Europe. However, it cannot stop at the thought that this problem can be solved by amendments to the Penal Code. Nor can we agree to the thesis that we can fight terrorism only by encroaching on the rights and freedoms of all citizens and citizens. Without a clear conviction of Western imperialist politics, which is the real culprit for the current situation, nothing will change. Military intervention is an element of the aggressive foreign policy of the West, which seeks to replace the loss of economic hegemony with military domination. Of course, they represent their interference as a solidarity response to the call for assistance from the vulnerable population. And this policy of military domination of the North Atlantic Alliance is responsible for the emergence of extremist religious movements. This policy is not responsible for the situation only because of the aggression it is carrying out in these areas, but also because it is armed. When appropriate, they organized resistance groups that collapsed the authorities. The first result of this flawed policy was Al-Qaeda and the second was AESH or DAESH, as it would have been more appropriate to name it. What we both have in common is that they are the product of NATO’s efforts, or NATO’s Member States. The terrorist attacks we are witnessing are thus the result of this imperialist policy and the legislative changes aimed at increasing the repression and limiting human rights of this complex issue cannot be resolved. As long as we do not condemn a policy that is mainly military-mediated only in those parts of the world that are important for the economic interests of Western corporations, a policy that is the cause and solution of the conflicts that have arisen, a reason for poverty and economic exploitation and a reason for the misery and devastation that refugees also run from. And these are the subjects we should be discussing. Without resolving these issues, terrorism cannot be eliminated. Suggestions made for strong stigmatization based on religion only make things worse. The planned and systematic hate discourse, which we will almost certainly witness again, is the reason why we still live in a society that cultivates a kind of prejudice to any difference, this time religious. And SDS is a specialist in hate discourse. This is also all the proponents are finally over with regard to refugees and terrorism. According to the SDS, it does not matter whether the refugees who crossed Slovenia are innocent or whether it is the second or third generation of Europeans born, that these descendants are from, for example, Arab countries. Effectively, at the end of the day, both terrorists are programmed to destroy Europe for the SDS. That the emergence of terrorism can, of course, be blamed, in addition to Western imperialist policies, for the serious social exclusion of individuals whose countries simply do not know or do not wish to allow social inclusion, and their social exclusion with wrong policies is only deepening, of course, the applicants are not interested. Neither the Government nor the coalition are concerned with this issue, nor the European Union. The countries most exposed at this time are the countries that have been leading the social exclusion policy for decades, and these countries are also slowly finding that the anti-terrorism policy used by the European Union and its Member States is flawed and that the problems are only exacerbated. This is happening in Great Britain, Spain, France, well, the Slovenian government and the right wing of the political class are still engaged exclusively in increasing repression, conferring police powers on the military and establishing fences. By the way, our little children who are growing up are being taught to clean up after themselves, but the government has set up a completely meaningless fence on the Slovenian border, and now it can't go far enough to clean up this flawed fence. In Slovenia, it is said, we have not yet begun to look for appropriate solutions, solutions that will address the structural causes of conflicts at global level, poverty, economic exploitation, justifying military interventions with simple ideological dichotomys such as East and West, terrorism against democracy. All the excuses there, the political economic context, translate into some moralism, and the truth calls for answers that we will have to look beyond the established political and economic frameworks. And the bill that is before us does not offer these answers offers no solution to the situation. That's why we won't support him in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u105	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group, a procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u106	Your Honor, Mr. President. At least I expected you to warn the gentleman who just spoke about the vocabulary he used, because all the proposal and everything we have proposed in the SDS is designed to protect human security. No human right is invoked to serve in foreign terrorist organisations, no human right is the exercise of preparatory acts and so on, and that is the only thing that is not criminalized in this proposal, because it is also consistent with fundamental human values and also with the international acts to which the European Union and Slovenia are bound. And for this reason, we are not prepared to accept in the SDS any insults about the fact that we are hate-mongerers, and in particular not from those who have stood with people who have been disguised and with anything in their hands and who have been challenged by a raised medium, but in any other way to escalate violence. Such people should simply go to their own doorstep, and it certainly does not belong to Parliament, and therefore it deserves a serious warning that such things do not happen and do not happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u107	Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much, chairman. I am certainly protesting that I would be given such a hair drawn to a kobayagi warning. As with the amendments to the Penal Code, we cannot eliminate the path of terrorism as a consequence of imperialist Western policies, nor can we effectively ban lying, deception and hate speech with the Penal Code, even though at times like today's debate, I do not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u109	Now, you've both used procedurally to say what you wanted to say, and please stop it. [[...advertising from the hall]] Please don't make it another one. They both addressed me, but good. [[…]] Mr. Grimes, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u110	Mr President, I strongly protest what you just did. In his address, the speaker accused the entire SDS as a party, that is to say with all members worthy of, hatred netting and even worse. If you've listened to him very carefully. And you have now aligned this with what we have proposed and what we are defending, and that is human security and respect for fundamental human rights. This is unworthy and I ask you not to compare these things with each other, because they are incompatible and also from the point of view of the Slovenian Constitution, security efforts and calls for security, against violence, will be protected by constitutional norms. On the contrary, it is what leads to violence or the expression of violence. This is, of course, unacceptable from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u111	People will draw up their own views on the views of one group of Members and others. We are at the point when it comes to the views of the Group. In the views of the groups of Members, the chairmen are normally without prejudice and, on the other hand, we usually do not have procedural concerns about the position of the groups of Members. I understand them when it's just a debate, not at this point. And now, because they've both kind of embalmed each other, I've only evened these two out, and certainly not the content of what was said. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u112	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! Brussels, Paris, London, Madrid, Iraq, Afghanistan, Chechnya, the United States of America, Nigeria and could still list. Terrorist activities and actions have taken place in all these countries. In Slovenia, thank God, not yet. The fundamental question is whether our country is adequately trained to deal with such threats. The assessment of New Slovenia is that it is not and that it is the duty of this Parliament to do everything to ensure that state authorities are provided with appropriate tools to deal with such threats. It's not about intimidation, it's not about threats. The terrorist attacks I counted have occurred and are facts. Many other countries react and prepare to such attacks. If I only point out how the Western Council acts against such threats. Most countries have increased funding for intelligence and security services, bought better tools, hired more people, all to deal effectively with the security threat. Clearly, not all threats can be prevented, but adequate and good preparation can save many lives. If you follow only the latest reports of Interpol and similar organisations, you can find out how many attacks have been prevented and what the consequences would have been for Europe if such attacks had occurred. We also estimate that criminal legislation in Slovenia is not suitable to be overly volatile. We are lucky to be living in a relatively safe and peaceful environment, and this may be a source of oversimplifying optimism and feeling, if anything can happen to us. And many government representatives, as well as coalition representatives, justify why some tighter measures or tighter legislation are not needed. The countries to which we compare, part of which we are associations, if you want to be more direct in the Western world, nevertheless significantly exacerbates counter-terrorism legislation. In the countries north of us, potential terrorists or those who in one way or another suggest that they intend to go to conflict areas controlled by terrorist organisations are prevented from taking travel documents. It's not possible with us. In the Netherlands, they went even further and introduced an approach to criminalise even voluntary detention in an area covered by a terrorist organisation or by an Islamic State. In the case of terrorism, many will say, it is all written in the Penal Code and the articles are fantastic, and the problem is that a very high standard of evidence has been set to prove such acts in court. And other countries have embarked on such a high standard of evidence problem in such a way that this evidence standard has begun to decline in a way that I have already said that detention in an area covered by the Islamic State is a crime, without the State having to prove that a citizen in this area has actually committed a crime, killed or otherwise acted in favour of a terrorist organisation. They act preventively to take away their documents, organise specific deradicalisation programmes or deradicalisation programmes. They actively monitor websites where such terrorist rhetoric is treated or appears. Above all, they are actively raising awareness of potential communities that are susceptible to such terrorist propaganda by cases of disappointed people who have returned from the Islamic State. Of course, our country does not do all of this. We now have on the one hand the Government, which claims that the legislation is perfectly appropriate, that the coalition is also attached to it, that we have a minister who claims that legislation is also appropriate, but that our bodies, who face such threats, are inexperienced to process them properly. I would like to get an answer to one very simple question in today's debate. Why in the case of Roc Zavbi in Italy one in Slovenia the other? If I'm more specific. In Slovenia, practically the country could not tell him anything, and in Italy he is being accused of serious cases. Why is there such a difference? Why? Is it legislation? Is it the experience of security and intelligence? I wish we could have this kind of explanation. The opposition claims in this House that the problem is overly loose legislation or legislation with too much evidence. I would like to know what the arguments of the government coalition and the Ministry itself are, why this is possible. Let us ask ourselves: Who among us in this hall may have a rocket launcher in his own house? Who of the citizens voluntarily and consciously travels to areas dominated by militias and organisations that head people who enforce Sharia law and other matters? Who? Probably not those who would share those values with us that would share the values behind which this independent and democratic country came into being. And it's likely that people like this need to be reacted in some way. On Monday, so yesterday, I was in Brussels, where we also dealt intensively with this topic. Among others, the Belgian Minister of Justice also discussed the issue. He said: "What Europe is now facing is just the first part of the problem, the second, much bigger, just coming. When exhaustion, military losses, whatever conflicts in crisis areas end, many of our European citizens will come to Europe, European citizens who will have various post-traumatic syndromes, who will believe in completely different values in which we believe, and how we will ensure some normal co-existence." Today, in Slovenia, many people find these debates fruitless, meaningless and meaningless. As long as we're talking about numbers 5, 10, maybe 20, we can still say that. When those numbers grow into hundreds, then we'll have a big problem. Then it will be too late for an effective reaction. And what we want in the opposition is - and I don't think it's too much - to react when it's time. To tighten legislation to the point that legislation also has a dissuasive effect. Because once things get bigger, then it'll be just too late, and then we'll probably be looking for the reasons behind all these things to be what they are. Remember, years ago, there were various articles about how Slovenia was a safe area, some security heavens for criminals from southern Italy who went to Slovenia on vacation because they felt safe here. I really do not want Slovenia to become a safe haven for all those people who would return from Syrian, Iraqi, Afghan and any other battlefields, perhaps even African ones, just because our partners or Member States of the European Union will tighten legislation to this extent to prevent such people from entering their countries at all, while Slovenia, a member of the European Union, as a suitable target or destination for all those who may not be able to return to Germany, France or the United Kingdom. And that is why in New Slovenia we strongly support the tightening of this kind of legislation, so that all those who might think of Slovenia as safe will have a pleasant destination for terrorists in order to get rid of these thoughts. But it's always what doesn't go with the word, it usually goes with the force. And that's how it happens all over the world, terrorist activities happen when in some environment, in some society, there's a sense of perspective when there's some kind of oppression, then people are looking for all kinds of ways, even in violence. When he doesn't take a word, he sings a weapon. It is also not as one - layered or uniform as some on this left hand side want to show that for all the bad things that are happening in the world right now, the false alliance in NATO or the Western world, all the terrorists we have today, has produced the Western world. Things aren't that simple. I don't know how my colleagues are going to comment now on all the terrorists that are growing and emerging in Nigeria, Chechnya, Afghanistan, from the 1980s. I just want to say that terrorists are emerging at all ends of the world, especially because certain communities are being oppressed because there is a sense of hopelessness. And only when we as a society, as a Western society, have we answered such questions as how to help developing countries, will we solve many problems of origin. I know that this is a cliché debate, when we are solving problems of origin, but I do not otherwise see how to stop all this crowd of young, disappointed people who are without perspective and who see their only option in weapons and in terrorism. If these young people had a perspective, they probably would not have decided on such actions. And of course, when there are conflicts, then you have non-controversies that abuse faith for their own interests, because of course religion is always good for integration and for the mobilization force. In short, I hope that in this House, too, there will be an awareness that today is the time to change things, to sharpen them, that perhaps in a month, two or a year we will not regret these acts. Nor do we claim to know everything and to know everything, but we are convinced that this kind of extension submitted by colleagues could be suitable for further consideration. If the ministry has many better options, it should come along with them, not simply to say that the old are inappropriate and that the legislation is appropriate. It is our view that something must be done and that is why we will support this proposal today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u113	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, a representative of the proposed law, Mr Jan Mahnic, spoke to the Government and then finally Dr Jasna Murgel as the first member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, President. The old Slovenian proverb says: "The third one likes to go to. Well, here in this case we can see that this is not true, but from the country where the government is stealing children from old parents, it is not expected that it will fight terrorism effectively. But let's do it in a row. I must say that, despite everything, I realize that there is some progress in the positions of the coalition parliamentary groups, and not least that today the Minister of Justice has come here, probably because for the first time it is that they have something concrete, but also that they are themselves prepared in this area or to improve this area, because whenever the Secretary of State Mr Stare came here earlier, we have only listened to the criticism of our proposal and, most importantly, that Mr Stare also spoke with the coalition at that time, it was that, we have all the acts incriminalized, we do not need amendments to the Penal Code. Well, it took you two years to figure out that we still need to change the Penal Code. It is not that I would blame you for not voting against and not supporting our proposal, but that you have spoken twice in this House or, if I generalise that you have spoken for the last two years that we do not need to change, and now we need them for once. Here, too, the Government has stated in its opinion that in doing so, the applicants do not take into account the fact that the Council of Europe has adopted, while the Republic of Slovenia has signed the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which criminalises so-called foreign terrorist fighters with the aim of harmonising the laws of the Member States in this area, lays down much more provisions and in accordance with the principle of legality in criminal law. It is also important for the future regulation of the area under consideration that, in the process of adopting the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating terrorism and replacing the Council Framework Decision on combating terrorism now, I am disturbed by the word or sentence here that the applicants do not take into account the fact that the Council of Europe has adopted it in the meantime and the Republic of Slovenia has signed it. [[…]] I think it is quite the opposite that the Government does not take into account the fact that it has signed this Protocol, because this Protocol was signed by the Government or the Minister of Justice in the middle of October. From October to today, it has been quite a while, and we know that the security situation has deteriorated and we have nothing yet, and it is now in professional coordination. Previously, the Secretary of State said that we have made the same or the same investment twice. For the first time, we have submitted this in December 2014 on the basis of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2178, where we have written virtually everything that was written in the resolution has also been written in law. At that time it was an argument, it was all incriminating and also not going to write laws by including them in or directly referring to certain United Nations resolutions or other organisations. On the basis of what you were saying at the time, we prepared a second proposal, which was then tabled in early 2015. Again, we listened to how all of this was already criminalized, so that we didn't need it to be no problem. And again, the case was dismissed. At that time, the representative of the SMC Group, Mrs Kozlovich, I think she said when she had a position and then in the debate, that this protocol was just saying that there was now some unification, then I proposed to Mr Staret to propose to the European Union that we should just adopt our legislation, which he so praised, how oh and how good it was, that it was all incriminating, and if that were true, then this would happen, but not that we should change it now, despite having argued for two years that there was no need for it. We waited, we believed that you would actually do something in this area. It's been the summer since, it's been the fall, it's been the New Year here, it's still nothing. Well, a few weeks ago something happened, however, Italy demanded the arrest of Rok Zavbi. The term Zavbi was one of the three Slovenians for whom we know the names and surnames that fought on the side of the Islamic State or were supposed to fight. And here is again the question, as the Secretary of State said earlier, that the problem in KZ or Mrs Kozlovich said, is not sufficient evidence for the crime. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if there's evidence that someone was down there, that he was photographed with a gun on the battlefield, that his friend died down in a fight, that he came back with another colleague with whom they brought the whole weapon. Let me tell you what further evidence we need that he was in Syria and fought on the side of the Islamic State. Here I am even convinced that we could process it already on the basis of the existing articles of the Penal Code, which we have from Articles 8 to 111, which also apply to our citizens who commit such crimes abroad. The other problem is who collected this evidence. Unfortunately, the evidence of the Soviet Union in the courts does not apply. It will also need to be considered in order to ensure that the evidence of the Soviet Union in the case of at least Article 108 to 111 of the Penal Code applies in a court of law. We have received the opinion of the Council of Justice, and this is also an indication that it is only moving in a positive direction. I don't know who asked them for an opinion, even in these three lines it's very expensive, but they say that "the National Assembly is advised by greater precision in defining the crime in relation to the proposed amendment of the law." And that's what you got, Mr. President. Isn't it? It was addressed to you. I'd answer them back, and they'd write us what they suggest, and we'd put it in. Since they have already written, "advises greater precision in defining a crime", some changes are said to be necessary. But once again, for two years you've been saying no; now you're obviously doing these things. The secretary of state said the problem was, what does that mean? Someone's calling or protecting. I think you know that very well, if you don't, then ask your colleague the Mags. In the village of Györkös Žnidar or Mr Funk, on the basis of what police walk around the homes of those who protect or call for violence against migrants on social networks. It is said that you have defined what it means to protect or call. But apparently there are double criteria. I am interested – what Mr Tonin has already said – and the prosecution as well as the police are at the closed meetings of the Commission – and Mr Fischer has also said – there is no need, I will not issue any secret data, Mr President – that they do not have a legal basis for reacting against Scoobic and Zavbi. That there's no legal basis. The only legal basis for them to process it was, I think, illicit possession of weapons, nothing else, even though there was evidence that they were fighting there. And that's when we proposed a change to the Penal Code. We know that retroactivity can only cause changes to go backwards, but we have proposed the preparatory actions done by Scubic. Because the Italians did not request arrest because he was involved in the fights, but because he was protecting, calling, he was planning to organise transport to the DAESH battlefield. And the main question I'm asking here is why Italy had to do it, why it didn't do it to Slovenia. Knowing that Italy said that this action was in cooperation with the Slovenian law enforcement authorities. And if that is true, Mr Minister, what you said at the time, because in my opinion you have responded correctly and you have also identified yourself for the first time in these matters, very correctly and also specifically what the police have done. And now I'm asking you, given what you said at the time – I understood that as an earpiece to the police – that our police are not experienced and are not qualified to detect such crimes. What will the government do in this area? What kind of changes are you going to make? Is it expected to change the CAP from 149th to 151st? I agree that we should give some additional powers to the police for easier detection. Here is mainly the question of IMSI-catchers, here is the issue of installing Trojan horses, various viruses and so on, because we know that with modern applications the police or law enforcement authorities find threats difficult to detect. But, ladies and gentlemen, given what kind of police we have, given the structure of this police, given the kind of affairs we are monitoring and what has happened in recent weeks, what we have witnessed, I can honestly tell you that I am afraid to give our police more authority. Since there is always a problem, there is a thin line between freedom and security and how quickly it can be exceeded. But we'd overstep it, not on a security charge, especially with a security excuse. The position of the Social Democrats was also interesting, and I would even agree in part that the reasons for such behaviours should be found elsewhere. He said that terrorism was a matter of social exclusion. However, if we leave the case of Slovenia, where the last eight years with the exception of the year and a half, Social Democrats are responsible for the social policy of this country, it is nevertheless necessary to say that the three of them, one of whom died in Syria, were from the middle layer, that they were educated to have jobs. So they did not radicalize themselves because of the pressure on the edge or because of social problems. There were problems somewhere else. Problems arise when someone is allowed to teach Arabic in public schools — and we know what his views on radical Islam are. That's what we warned you about at the time. And, well, now what Comrade Kordish of the United Left said to connect the terrorists, the fugitives, somehow. Of course there's a correlation here. The Islamic State has made it clear that last year, in these migratory flows, it will also send fighters and fighters, there are many images that have actually come, and arrests have taken place across Europe. So the correlation between terrorists and refugees has been proven. And now, due to a failed policy, refugees are dying at the external borders. Well, here he very much agreed with him, but he forgot to say that refugees today at the external borders are dying because of colleagues like Kordish and his colleagues who have been screaming for almost a year: “Refugees Welcome!” Without any criteria, they accepted everything, including those who do not deserve to come here. Because of such policies, and because of such policies, when we have taken everything from A to Z, today those who really need help are dying, in Syria, in Iraq and elsewhere, and will continue to die because of such a flawed, far-left socialist policy. Because they prefer their voices because they prefer their ratings, rather than actually those people, because they would advocate for help in crisis hotspots. Not that we are importing the problem into Europe, but that we do not know how to deal with it, because we do not have financial resources, nor material resources, that the capacities of the security authorities in charge of ensuring the safety of citizens and citizens, because regardless of the refugees, the safety of Europeans and Europeans, those who live here, who pay taxes here, must be the security of all Europeans and Europeans. The country must take care of this in the first place. And here I agree with him why they're dying, but we need to set up a mirror. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u115	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič. Prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and the Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I will only be able to make one call, and I will only be able to do so later if there is a specific question. I would add to what my colleague the Secretary of State has already said in the beginning, and I will begin where Ambassador Jean Mahnic ended. Since we're from the same valley, I'm gonna let him say this. You started your speech, "The government that steals children from old parents." I mean, look, I don't know what old mom would tell you if you were talking in a camera like that, lying and manipulating, I know what my mom would say, in the Jury or anywhere in the Polian Valley, where we put something on dignity. That's the first thing. The other thing is, I admire your confidence because you're a real doctor, an expert in counterterrorism and so on. And I'll go back, very simple. First of all, Frogs. Today we've talked about a lot of things, a lot of things I've listened to, representatives of the left-hand and right-hand groups. Concern about what's going on in the world is in place. Concern about what is happening in Syria and the wave that will come back if Syrian fighters return is in place. Today, however, we are talking about the Penal Code. Just about it. And this is what the whole of Europe is talking about right now. Slovenia has revised the Penal Code in this area in 2008, and unlike many other countries, we have regulated the Penal Code, which is relatively decent, not perfect and not in relation to all modern threats against terrorism. That's right. Since we changed the Penal Code in 2008, that was after 9/11, that was after Iraq and so on. Then new forms emerged, from foreign fighters and so on, and the whole of Europe was working on how to criminalise it. Because, by the way, you know, one that goes and so on, and what you did then was, yes, the Secretary of State of the Old here, but I didn't have time and you might be happy that I didn't have time to tell you more directly that what you proposed at the time was worse than any verbal delinquent in the former SFRY, because you've created a mental delicacy because you've established that, but anyone who would say one beer to someone, hey, maybe I'd go to Syria could get locked up. [[…]] And even today's proposal, the proposal you have here, I tell you with all the credibility of the Ministry of Justice that it could be used to incriminate journalists, doctors, paramedics and ordinary adventurers who would like to go to Syria in these areas. Your proposal is weak. This does not mean that you are wrong about this area, and here I am referring to New Slovenia, we need to arrange and talk about it. That is why Slovenia was one of three countries, in addition to Sweden and Germany, which is, and you can see on the websites, in the Council of Europe, in the first types of adoption of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. As soon as this was adopted, we were the first to sign this Protocol and also to prepare appropriate amendments to the Penal Code. And then something else happened, and Paris happened, and Brussels happened. And that is when the European Council of Ministers of Justice under the Dutch Presidency began to work intensively on the new anti-terrorism directive. And the Dutch put it together. We were on the Council of Ministers of Justice in Luxembourg in Brussels in April – because it doesn't matter where – we confirmed it. And then it got a little complicated in the European Parliament and it didn't go through yet, but it will go through by September. And now, look, when we break this onion, I agree with certain changes to the Penal Code in this area are necessary, but we cannot be, I mean, given that, indeed, SDS is not smarter than most of Europe, without resentment, and Mr Mahnic, you are not smarter than most of Europe in this area. And we're waiting for the last line. However, we do not believe that the text will change substantially in the European Parliament, make changes to the Penal Code, they are already in professional coordination, they are not so obvious, or we will, but I don't know when, but systematically, as has been said, they are ready, they have already been sent to stakeholders, the police, the prosecution, the courts, and we already have feedback. I believe that you will receive them immediately at the September session, because in principle the Government should accept them and will be in line with what the European Parliament will adopt in the anti-terrorism directive. And just one last thing that's so damn much to say about this Frog. I don't know, or I don't know, or maybe I can't tell, or maybe I just don't know why what happened happened. However, you need to know something, for no crime which is not criminal in Slovenia either, you cannot arrest someone in Slovenia, because you should have committed it abroad or extradite it abroad if this crime is not also criminalized in Slovenia. In other words, if we are talking only about the Penal Code now, if what Frogs did in Italy would not be criminal in Slovenia anyway, and that is what you want to change today, Mr Mahnic and the others, then we could not arrest him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u117	The text is given by a representative of the bill's proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic, and then the other two.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Now, I have to respond to these words of the Minister, which, of course, I expected, even though I am not alone, and I do not really have the habit of personal discrediting Members, much less the ministers, nor do I have the habit of offending anyone. Now, Minister, before you go, I urge you to face each other on your side at the next election in our constituency, and see who gets more support when you say we're from the same valley. I call on you to face the next election in our constituency, also with you, Mr Brglez, because you are also from my constituency, no problem with whom I can face in my constituency, and to see the heroes who will come to run for the Polish Valley, where we live on some different principles that you are here defending. Let's just drop it. “The government that steals children from old parents.” Look, this last week is what 43 Members and Members of Parliament, including the Desus coalition party, didn't grow on my herb. This was said several times last week during this debate by those who supported interpolation, and these were more than those who voted against interpolation. And only what Mr Minister has said that after this proposal we should arrest journalists, paramedics, doctors This proposal, which we have proposed, is summarized under the Penal Code of Montenegro, according to the Penal Code of Montenegro, which was amended last year and was one of the terms and conditions of the negotiations in the process of joining NATO. [[…]] I hope that the Montenegrin ambassador has heard what the Minister has said about this country, if he is not, I will personally inform him and ask him at some reception, at least I could ask him. Like the first proposal we have proposed following a model of amendments to the Penal Code made by Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u119	Now he has the word of Dr. Jasna Murgel. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We are really talking about many things today and not just the Penal Code, because we probably have an understanding, an perception that this Penal Code affects a lot of things. However, I would be happy and convinced that it would be our duty not to threaten here from Parliament, what could happen now, I don't know, this law will not be adopted or anything – terrorist attacks, Brexit, we have heard colleagues Grims. I really think it would be useful if we stopped showing here from this House to the people who are threatening us with all these horrible images. Yes, the situation is not pink as regards stability in Europe and in the world, we are all well aware of it together and we are doing our utmost to maintain stability here in Slovenia, in Europe and around the world. But, waking up to panic, I don't think he's really in the right place, and I'd be very happy if we didn't do it here. Terrorism has existed for a long time. We do a lot of work here in Parliament. If you look at international instruments adopted, for example, within the framework of the United Nations dealing with terrorism, preventing terrorism and addressing these issues, they have a long history. I studied these things myself when I was doing international law, Ph.D. and stuff. So it's nothing new. Why don't I support the bill? Even if we supported him, we wouldn't have saved anything. In fact, given that it is a proposal for a law that is inconsistent with the existing text of the Penal Code, it could only cause confusion, so that any other prosecutor would really have trouble defining an offence as a crime. We all agree that the Penal Code is essentially the tip of the iceberg. We do not solve those pressing issues in the society we face. We will not solve the problem of terrorism with this law either. You don't even claim it, I agree. But with the bill, as proposed, we will simply not solve it, even if we did, we would not solve the problems of terrorism as you would like. There will be a lot to do, work on integration, on all the other mechanisms that will allow us some peaceful coexistence of different cultures, Europe is made up of this, and we can deny it, as far as we want, we are not ethnically clean and we have never been and neither will we. But these are other things that we will also solve here in Parliament. The fact is that the population, the population, the Europeans, are shrinking here. It's getting smaller. We're getting old, Europe's getting old. This will change any language in any forum. People from other parts of the world were coming and coming to Europe. It is our only way to enable what kind of environment we create for the co-existence of all those living in the countries of Europe. I will not support the bill because, we have already said, it is inconsistent with the existing text of the Penal Code. It overlaps with some articles and so on. Dear colleague Mahnic, yes, Montenegro can have some article and we can rewrite it in the Penal Code, Bosnia and Herzegovina can have it, I love both countries very much, but the question is, what do we do if we now translate this text into our penal code. Hop, copy-paste, let's do it. I mean, the Penal Code, if any marriage, all laws are such that we have to, because you know, when we put a text in, look at what we're going to do with the whole thing, whether it matches the entire text of the law. In general, the penal law is — and we have said it several times — the one that is still most involved in shaking hands. And the solutions are bad, and they can't be accepted. Now, as far as the police are concerned, they do not have the authority to change the law. The Ministry of the Interior, under which the police are responsible, has said that it agrees with the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that it cannot support such a law as proposed because it is inconsistent with the existing criminal code. As the Minister has said, it is being prepared, but it is indeed preparing a novel of the Penal Code, which will include everything the Minister has already said, in particular provisions concerning the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and the Directive of the European Union. This will be done by the government as it is done. There will be other amendments to the Penal Code. Obviously, some changes are necessary, and you really have the opportunity to participate in this procedure at least when the law enters into the parliamentary procedure. To see if there are any solutions that need to be reconciled. We'll have plenty of time to work this out. The law, as proposed, cannot be supported because it does not solve the problems you want to address. I think it will be an opportunity under this penal code prepared by the Government to address all the problems to be addressed. I hope that we will have a constructive dialogue here on this occasion when we decide to amend the Penal Code submitted by the Government. However, it is very difficult to follow it through on crimes and on crimes, in practice, but it is always reactive because it responds to what is happening in practice. But once again, my deep conviction is that it is necessary to be very careful how we introduce these changes into criminal law at all. Unfortunately, we are not solving the problem with these proposed solutions, but we are making the matter even more complicated, and I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u121	[[advertising from the hall]] There hasn't been a debate yet, so there can't be a replica from your side. Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u122	Mr President, now there have been two performances that would no doubt require your proper response. First, if anyone's talking about Brexit, then we need to know that this will change Europe. Europe is no longer what it was a year ago, but since tomorrow it can happen that there will be no more Europe in which we once included ourselves on the basis of plebiscite. This needs to be known that things are changing dramatically, and that is why we need to prepare ourselves in the future, which is what we need to think in the future. This was the point of what some may not have wanted to understand and a nice request for a debate to remain in this context. Secondly, as far as the Minister is concerned, he would have deserved to be dismissed by the chairman across the door for his performance, what he had allowed. The Minister, who is personally responsible for 1 and a half years in spite of his announcement, despite the police's requests, we do not have the necessary changes to criminal law, allows himself to come to this House and scream, raises his voice that the proposal proposed by the opposition is to save what he personally has not done to make it bad. That is why we could throw him over the door, ladies and gentlemen, if this Parliament were worthy of its name. And if, of course, it does not lead to the holding of this sitting of a stand by the executive branch of power, but this is contrary to the principles that are in the constitution, because the authority is supposed to be separate and the Minister is personally responsible for not doing what he himself has admitted should be done – he has changed legislation. That is why today this proposal also has no right, the least not to come here, to make a lame theater like it did, to scream in this House and then to go triumphantly through the door. Shame on the government, shame on him personally, shame on Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u123	And what is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u124	I said that we should give him a very serious warning and also dismiss him, you should take his word and send him out the door for what the minister did.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u125	Your proposal does not have any procedural basis, so I cannot accept it. The Minister of Justice of the Magi spoke. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Branko Grimes, very briefly, I won't answer. I'm a guest in this house, and I apologize if you understood earlier that I was screaming, and I was arguing, you just told me that I was running a lame theater. All right, well, those are your words. But I'd like to say something, you said, I'm here because I didn't do it or I'd be stuck on a pranger because I didn't do what I was supposed to do. But I don't know because I don't know if you've been to the gym before or not. I have said that the Ministry of Justice has actively involved itself, we have been among the three countries that have been leading the preparation of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, and in all the Councils of Ministers for Justice where we have discussed, I have been personally present and we have had considerable debate on these matters. I think that I have done my job and that is that I have contributed to this and, above all, my colleagues, including those present, that we have come up with a European solution, which we have also written in the proposal for a law. But you yourself admitted to offering a Montenegrin solution. [[clapping]] Bravo! I prefer the European solution that we agree on in Amsterdam with all justice ministers rather than a bad copy of the Montenegrin law. And you yourself admitted that you did exactly that. You didn't say a bad copy. You just said a copy of the Montenegrin law. We have put in professional coordination, I repeat, a proposal for a law that has been harmonised in the European Council, which is in line with the Council of Europe Convention, and you are proposing today a copy of the Montenegrin law. Therefore, I apologize if I am not particularly excited about this, and if the President wants it, of course I will leave the Chamber for that reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u127	Procedurally, Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you. Once again, I will ask the President to warn the Minister that he has missed the key point – that the bill before us, whatever it is, is only because the Minister has not done what he would have done after his own commitment a year and a half ago. And, excuse me, it is better to have as a basis the Montenegrin text of the law, which can always be improved by the appropriate amendments, as Minister at Montenegrin speed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u129	Now I ask that we end with Montenegro, that we do not have to apologize on international or any other ground. Let's just stop because it's insulting, insulting to a lot of people. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Prepare Mr. Jan Škoberne and the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u130	In today's debate, although strong words are falling, I see something positive. It is positive that we have heard that changes will happen in September, which I think is progress. And if anything, then the opposition must also have a medal, and we can say that the opposition, with constant and constant pressure on the minister and the ministry, has achieved that there may be a change that goes faster than it would have gone, that they will not be on one side alone. I hope that these changes, which we do not yet know and have not seen – the Minister has promised to see them in a short time – will be appropriate and will respond appropriately to the challenges of time. This is one positive thing that I can certainly draw from today's debate. Another positive thing is that we are finally — at least I have now finally understood the point of Rok Zavbi. The Minister said: "What Rok Zavbi did in Italy is also a crime in Slovenia, because otherwise Rok Zavbi could not be handed over to Italy." Okay, fine. Then this means that maybe when I discussed before we had overly loose, inadequate legislation, the point was that Roz Zavbi committed crimes in Italy rather than in Slovenia. Well, let's put it this way. At least today you are from today's debate for me for two important conclusions. What Mrs Murgel discussed — in a number of parts, I could agree, but not in some parts. Of course, Europe and Slovenia have long not been one-national or one-ethical, but they are multiethical, multicultural if you want. However, I think it is crucial that all ethical groups living in Slovenia, all religions or religious communities that exist in Slovenia, adapt to the standards that this country has to respect constitutional order and laws. I am sure that Mrs Murgel will also agree with me in this work. Kima. Se. Great. The thing I'm worried about right now is the next one. If Minister and Member Mahnic are from the same valley, it's also me and Rock Frogs from the same valley, if I may say so, yes, that's not my fault. That's right. So I can say I know the Rok Zavbi family very well. And one thing that surprises me and should also draw conclusions from this is the following. The Roka Zavbi family is a completely friendly, exemplary family, if I may say so, the Roka Zavbi family is a classic atheistic family. And to me, the fundamental question is probably purely legitimate and credible, how can an atheistic family grow up or create a heated Islamist or a member of the radical branch of Islam. I don't think that's a blasphemous or a wrong question. Why? Because I will do the following thing, that obviously something is happening in Slovenian prayer rooms too, because I can't imagine that, if I say very directly, the hands of Zavbi had to be radicalized somewhere. Somewhere he had to hear about such radical ideas, get excited about them, and then do all the things he did. And this country and our security services should also deal with the question of what is being preached in these prayer rooms and what is being taught. I think that this is a credible question for the safety of all of us and this country. However, if we again draw examples with other European countries, I think that some countries are very much in control and problem-stricken about what is being taught in some not only prayer rooms but also mosques. And I hope that when the Minister is preparing a new version of the Penal Code, there will be room for any article. It may be possible to pursue this matter more effectively. And another thing that has surprised me a lot lately, and it's further worrying me that I've been talking to my good friend, his good friend is Muslim, and he's married in the old ways. And his fundamental question was why, in addition to a religious marriage, they did not marry civilly. I don't know, I married a church and also a civilian in front of the state. And this individual said, for us the laws and rules of this country do not apply, we are subject to Sharia law. I don't want to scare anyone, so that statement scared the hell out of me. If we already have individuals in Slovenian society who clearly and loudly say that our laws do not apply to them – I will make a point here so that no one will say that I am spreading intolerance or that I am spreading a fear that I really do not want. The problem of the whole of Europe, as well as of Slovenia, is demography, and this creates a whole range of problems that we will be able to face. And I know that this is not a debate of today's point, and I don't want to go into it either, but I want to remember that when I do, I hope that I will ever see my age looking back, that I will remember these present good old Slovenia with some good feelings. That I could tell my grandchildren that I was born in Yugoslavia, that I had completed my education in a independent and independent Slovenia and that I had started working in a united Europe or the European Union. And I hope that then this union will still exist and that we will not break it down because of our lack of identity.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u131	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Mr. Jože Tanko and the Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So many interesting thesis that a person might not want to hear today was said to be true, I have to admit it honestly, I have honestly thought about how to convince the President not to announce me, but I was already too late, and since he has already announced me, I have to get involved in the debate. And I will start by liking that, as a country with proposals that respond to such dramatic and important movements in the world and in the region, such as the issue of terrorism and the issue of the departure and return of potential fighters, we coordinate where this city is and adapt to the international framework and framework that we have decided, of course, to be committed to, and for which I sincerely hope that Great Britain will remain committed. It is important that we deal with these challenges, which, of course, we cannot solve ourselves, together with those that are key stakeholders. And if anyone and ever, Europe has never been one-national, one-ethnic. Above all, it is unusual to conclude that Europe has changed and that it will never appear to be the same as it was. Done. Europe has been changing all the time, like the continent, if we wanted to in a geological sense, as well as the continent in political terms. And from the very beginning of the countries, the relationships, inside it was changing, people were coming, people were leaving, they were friction, and they were different views. If you want Panta Rhei. If you wish otherwise and in another context, Ivo Andric described the bridge in Drina very nicely. And all these dimensions of Europe need to be understood. Above all, something that was common to all dimensions when Europe lived well, when prosperity was then also multiculturalism, was not a problem to coexist. At a time when prosperity was less threatening people with existential problems, when it was difficult to determine for the next month how it would be possible to survive, then friction started either on a religious basis or on a national basis or on an ideological basis. After all, if we take only Spanish Cordoba, an amazingly beautiful city that was created by two different cultures that lived for a very long time, and at one point this ability to live together has suffered a break. There are many such cities in Europe, and in some ways from Sarajevo to Helsinki. And instead of talking about where, as a community, young people who are not individually found, who feel excluded from the community, we would be given the opportunity to find and re-establish, in the framework of a system that, or within the framework of our community, even in the informal work, we are always talking about repressive measures as if they were the simplest and easiest ones. Perhaps as such they are, but certainly not the most effective in finding meaning and goals for which we are ourselves, we can find this out after today's debate, here all united and close. And the key question is not, in fact, why there may not have been potential departures and futures, if I may call them that, to persecute them with us, but why does a young person find a solution in radicalisation, one or the other? Here is the key dilemma of the community that we must answer. And what many countries have done before us, including Germany, in some of their federal countries, but I believe that we must, too, is the question of how, above all, the system of education and education to vent and to make sure that it can at the core itself establish those invisible links within the community, which, at the first alarm, will seek help and exit, can place this man, help him, give him an answer in some structured dialogue, in some appropriate action, but not leave him to the need to isolate himself in any radical group. And that's the only thing that can answer in the long run. Social inclusion, which is not necessarily related to an existential framework, but to social inclusion, which means a community in which the problems of all are equally important and which the community understands not as something that is a burden, but as something that we also respond to together in solidarity and knowing that, if I have already started to write, by Hemingway: "If it washes me off, you are also slightly smaller." Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u133	Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes, then we have an end to the general debate and he has the word of a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In a way, I am saddened by this systematic approach of the Government and the government coalition to the proposals put forward by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I don't think that these priorities deserve someone who has done nothing to evaluate them as imperfect, non-systemic, inappropriate, and yet I don't know what. Minister Goran Klemenčič had plenty of time in this mandate to do something in the field of judicial legislation, which is probably also part of the Penal Code, that would be in line with the situation, which would be a response to the current situation. However, I must conclude that he has not proposed any essential solutions in these two years, except for the measurable addition of five laws to the rules or principles of GRECA in the field of justice, there has been virtually nothing significant. And the little thing that was done at the time marked the mini justice reform and predicted that we would come to a serious judicial reform some year ago. None of this happened. And now the Minister, who has done absolutely nothing in his field of work, is extremely arrogant towards those who say something about justice or even more to those who propose something in the field of justice. Such mockery by Minister Klemenčič is, in fact, an expected response from some ordinary official who in some way does nothing that could be defined in a company as a lazy person, as someone who sabotages, comes for a salary and does nothing. If I worked in an economic society where we were, say, at least or almost half of the working time managed and dealt with these things, we would send such a worker away without a bad conscience, if I said so. Klemenčič is a minister and a minister of the city to do anything in order to at least blend in with the ashes, simply to process for a long time and beyond all those who have anything to say or anything to suggest in this area. Now, I don't know how you understand these things, but someone who consciously leaves in the legislation of a systemic hole so that certain cases can happen and will probably happen to us as soon as possible. How would you define this state? Or, in some way, allowing someone consciously to gain some benefit or cause some damage. When this KPK Prime Minister, the Anti-Corruption Commission, defined in some way what systemic, organisational or institutional corruption is. Someone who consciously, despite all the warnings, despite the proposals that have been tabled to block solutions that improve the situation is advocating simple systemic corruption. He's institutionally defending and leaving these legal voids, consciously. Such a man, such as Klemenčič, should have been dismissed a long time ago, because he also brought a number of bad things from previous jobs from which he came to serve as minister, burdened by decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, also by other findings of other bodies, such as the Court of Auditors, the Information Officer and others. In short, we are in a situation where the minister, who in these few minutes when I arrived at the hall, said three places where they had adopted legislative amendments. He said Luxembourg, he said Brussels, and then he said that this was the last thing Amsterdam said, because he didn't even know where he was when they were talking about these solutions in the European Parliament. See, this is a sign that the Minister does not even come to himself to know where he was when these battles of European solutions were taking place. That's sad. Now on this minister, I hear the coalition is building all its expectations of what will happen. Nothing good can happen. We can also be concerned about some other things. When this case happened to Zavbi, we received a statement from the chief of police that our police could not act in such cases, and then in the evening Klemenčič visited Odje, saying that we have completely comparable European legislation. Why is it not possible for us to arrest anyone because of an act, but we can do so for a foreign country that demands it? However, we have comparable European legislation, comparable to that, which he praised. And he probably said there that he didn't even understand why the police didn't do it. These are some clues that say not to do what should be done. We have indeed proposed some of the solutions that are summarised as well as the solutions proposed by the Government. Even the government, look, will have to sum up a solution because so much innovation in this government, to adopt a unique solution, is not, but will adopt a solution that exists in Europe and will implement it into our legislation. We've done it, too, not once, but look, the Montenegrins were at least enough to do something. But we have a minister who doesn't do as much as a Montenegrin, not so much, and he mocks those we do in this area. That was before, the minister applauded himself, as he said. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u135	I've warned everyone that please stop and don't insult others.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u136	I do not regret, Mr President, what the Minister has said is a scandal, including an international scandal – to mock the legislation and solutions that a country has in its field and are better solutions than the existing ones that we have. It's a scandal. And I would only suggest that you who hold the meeting warn the minister at some point because he behaves indecently. Not only does he not suggest anything, but he behaves indecently. Physically, he beats an MP when he walks by. It was like that, Mr. Secretary. If you're a gentleman, you'll confess. You waved Gorenaka over there the last time he almost sat down. Here you have treated your colleague Mahnič in such a very non-ministrational way. After all, the Government, in fact, cannot write anything more in all the proposals we make in the legislative process than that this solution is non-systematic, incomplete and that the Government will produce a better solution. For two years, what you write down in the last paragraph "all government opinions on the proposals proposed in the legislative procedure" lasts. Two years. Now look at how many laws you've made in these two years, where what you've been reading to us has been saved systemically, comprehensively, and otherwise. Two tons of amendments to your laws had to be tabled or coalition MPs filed in the National Assembly to make them consistent with the constitutional order in Slovenia. There's still a rescue waiting for one of your bogeymen about the system tests. Sorry, that's right. However, I would suggest that this technology works to the Government, which is the only response that is capable, slightly improves and that it comes to the National Assembly with smart solutions that do not need editorial, not substantive, not terminology, not any other corrections. That they will truly be complete, complete, and be valid for the next hundred years. If this proposal is in the opinion of the Government, it can be remedied by an amendment. If you let it go forward, the Legislative and Legal Service will tell us where our bill is inconsistent with the Constitution, as well as with your laws, even with those you have not been able to get through the legislative process for six months. But you can't risk it. That's the problem. The coalition cannot come to the second reading in the National Assembly in order to obtain the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the Government, coalition or we have been duly corrected. There's not enough of you in your pants to let that happen. And that's the 30th time in this term, at least. It is obvious, however, that you are very comfortable with the irregular situation in this and in other areas, because this is where certain things can be allowed and then they are likely to be saved after it is too late when the damage is already caused. And in this case, the Penal Code, thank God, was saved by the Italians. Despite warnings, our government is unable to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u137	To avoid misinformation — I know that violence took place within this house only physically when it came to the newspaper. I don't know any other case, but there are a number of verbal problems that unfortunately we can't avoid. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Prepare a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer for the final thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u138	Your Honor! Today we are not dealing with half of everything that is actually necessary. What we are dealing with is the fact that we have a very big problem in Europe. The problem of radical Islam, where individuals are addressing, in particular youth, especially when looking for those who are unstable or for any reason more exposed, then radicalise them, provide for their transport, provide them with financial resources, and in the end, we have individuals who either go to other countries to fight on the side of terrorist groups or are themselves prepared to carry out terrorist acts in the territory of Europe. This is not only related to refugees, as some have misinterpreted, but it is related to migrants in the broadest sense of the word, and so those who entered illegally last year still enter European soils, as of course all those migrants who came legally in the past decades, were members of radical Islam and transferred their extradition to the next generations. This is something that Europe has exceptionally allowed, especially because it has institutionalized through individual preachers, who in English are very poetically called the Hate Preachers, who are preaching those extreme radical forms of Islam that are also not foreign to crime. And that's the problem. This is a problem facing the whole of Europe, unfortunately also Slovenia. Europe then began to face it gradually in various ways, depending on the country's exposure, but according to the principle that the current Slovenian government, which is truly European in this sense, was led by: Too slowly and too late. And that's why things happen the way they do. As a result, the collapse of the European Union is now at stake and is almost complete. As a result, people are at risk, and people's lives are at risk, and values that have been the foundation of the European Union, including respect for human dignity, especially women and children, are certainly at the top. As a result, people's prosperity is threatened, as Europe is leaving more and more, not only Slovenia, because this process is tremendously strong, but also the whole of Europe, even in Sweden, is being left by individuals who are the most capable entrepreneurs who are the most capable of creating new value, have special knowledge, special qualities, they go abroad, they are richer then either across the ocean or on the completely opposite side of the world, somewhere in Australia or New Zealand, those who have never fallen for stupidity, which is called the import of foreign wars into their own territory. For this is what Europe has really done with it. Then there's a double-criteria system that's extremely dangerous here. We saw one here in Parliament today when someone said yes, because, whatever serious ideology is something, we reject it. Yeah, but what about all the violence left-wing ideologies? And you're not rejecting that? Aya, you're doing the same thing when you're yelling at those who're locked in the back, with any in your hands. This is a very embarrassing thing. And this is what makes Europe dangerous and even what makes Europe unfriendly in truth, but unfortunately it is overlooked because they are double standards. And how do we fight this now? There's one thing you should name things by their real name. This would be the conclusion of the intercultural dialogue that we had here in Parliament when I chaired the meetings of all the competent committees of the European Union Parliaments. At least in one part we agreed – that it is impossible to have a cultural dialogue if you do not name things without mistaking and with the right name. Today it is in the name of that — what is it called? – political correctness, deceit and lies and mocks with such expressions that you do not know whether to laugh or cry. I'm sorry. And we are also facing one of these problems right now when it comes to this legislation that we are talking about today. For the appeal to radicalisation, the appeal to join a foreign group, the appeal to fight for foreign groups, is, of course, something that must be prevented at the very beginning, for nothing good can be eradicated from it. Someone said in this debate today, and I'm talking again about the double criteria of how dangerous they are, yes, we need to have understanding for these people, for their conduct. Wait, good morning. Excuse me?Oh, my God! I was just reading on the Internet yesterday, how some mom and four-year-old daughter stopped down in Syria, got their daughter beheaded, beheaded, ladies and gentlemen, what they did to your mother, I'm leaving your imagination. And don't tell me that understanding is possible for people like that, but integration. Such people simply need to be put out of this world. There's no other way. But things are better prevented before it gets this far. For one who goes so far in a crime, believe, is perceived, because it will never be different, it poses a permanent danger, and however you reverse it. And that's why we need to react in advance. It was said: “Our legislation already makes this possible.” Now, good morning, I'm just going to ask who's lying here now, because the cops are repeatedly, even on television, and on my committee, I'm going to say publicly that they don't have the right legal basis to react in time when this first call for radicalisation comes to order, so that we can act. They don't have a basis. This was repeatedly said, including by the Director of Police, in the presence of a minister who did not object in any way. On the contrary, she confirmed that this was a real problem. And the Justice Minister comes along and says, "That's all right." Whether one or the other is lying, or both, just consider yourself in the government, who is lying here now, because both can't hold. If they have no basis for action, they should be given this basis. That was the whole purpose of what we did. But he also admitted to himself when he said: “We know that one thing will have to be settled and sharpened.” But in the same breath: “Not as you suggest, but in some other way.” Yeah, look, we've been playing this game in this House for a year and a half. Once again, if the government were normal, I would use this term, at least in this area of security I would accept the opposition's proposed hand. No one is asking you to accept exactly what we are proposing, but at least on this basis, we could have adopted certain solutions already a year and a half ago that would allow for the more efficient work of our services, which will soon be faced with a new challenge – I have already talked about it in the introductory work – the challenges that we now face most beautifully under the expression of Brexit. Europe, believe me, will never again be what it was. Regrettably, this is, because of the simplicity, irresponsibility, representation of individual politicians, particularly at European level, but unfortunately also in the Slovenian government, it is lost. And I personally am endlessly sad about it, and I don't think I'm the only one in Europe. It's done. Now, however, it will be necessary to face some new circumstances that will require work and survival. And it is quite clear that it is now to talk about some further strengthening of the European Union and similar universal nonsense. The one who's doing this, whether he's flying down with Luna or something's wrong with him, or whether he's making a fool out of everyone. Europe will start building walls not only physically with fences, which unfortunately has happened now, because I said, if it does not defend the external borders of Europe, this is what I said a year ago, within Europe, the walls will begin to grow. And then you were all kind of surprised there at the government when they started building neighbors' walls, and then so were we. But it's too late. Now it's about to be transferred to the legal order. All countries are looking, unfortunately, for a way out of this, because at the European common level there is such a thing as for some to stop the brain a little, to seek protection, a framework of their survival, security and prosperity within their country. Which is kind of natural and logical. This, of course, means that the same applies to Slovenia. Before you close your eyes, nothing helps, these things go independently of us. And don't think we can, even if everything else is arranged now, so we can stop them. Some processes have already begun, for example, this basic framework of this radical Islam, set up over the past decades, when everything and everyone was uncritically accepted without thinking about where it was going. But what I then said was that, like a nuclear-bomb lighter, it happened last year when another million people, a million and a half people, were released into Europe almost unverified, no one knows exactly what it is. Even if only a few percent of those who do not have good intentions are involved, it is a high - ranking disaster because things are becoming uncontrollable. And now what's gonna happen? It's not hard to predict. Those who have bad intentions who are radicalized will address others. There will, of course, be so many major circumstances that will lead to radicalisation, due to the training caused by the wrong approach of governments, including Slovenia. And they'll have so much easier work for you, they won't have it anyway. And the only thing that can be done is that this kind of incitement to violence, because it is true, this is not once and for all we will have to deal with where the line is between faith and where the beginning of what the constitution prohibits is, that is to say violence. [[…]] And here this line goes very clearly across. And it will only be necessary to give the competent authorities the appropriate power, the appropriate powers, the legal basis for an effective response as soon as it comes to it. Not after this has been dissolved, when an individual has been radicalized, when he has already done some act that then closes every way back forever. And that would be so valuable if the coalition with the government at the helm would have listened before the year and a half of our proposal and then adopted these solutions that we are offering, or at least now they are accepted. At any time, of course, it is still possible to improve them. Now in the process, the law can also be improved later if it turns out that something is too clear, however. But leaving this legal void is so extremely irresponsible that I simply can't find words for it. [[…]] For it leaves room for violence to come sooner or later. That's what puts him in danger. Because it is not done when the time is right, because there are no preventive steps to be taken. And don't say it's only possible in a nice way but in a good word. Of course, it is also necessary, clearly, that we all agree here. What's more beautiful than having friends. But unfortunately, the world is such that some people are such that they have bad intentions. These should be detected in a timely manner, and appropriate mechanisms should then be in place to prevent these purposes. And the legislator's responsibility, first of all the ruling coalitions with the government at the helm, is to give this legal basis to its own authorities and services. Because they don't have it now, we've heard it twice. We've already heard this from the police, even on television, if you want, you can check that I'm not saying what's already been said on my committee, in closed sessions, that they don't have the right powers. And they know something, and they can't act on that basis yet, they have to wait for the next step to be taken, but when things are going much longer. That's unreasonable. And similar problems are faced by services with special methods and resources, because some things are not incriminated, ladies and gentlemen, and now watch out, it's been dragging for a year and a half. This is the responsibility of the ministers I spoke of. If they detect only those things that are not explicitly incriminating at present, they cannot either use specific methods and means or they cannot obtain from the Court the power to extend them, because this is not a crime at all, which is happening there, even though everyone knows that it ultimately leads to violence. This is completely irresponsible because you literally do not give your own services adequate authority to act where violence is concerned. This has nothing to do with what I don't know, not with race, not with faith, not with anything, but with the question of the way that ultimately leads to violence. Here also to talk about who it is or is not a single solution, look, I personally believe that on any ideology that is extreme in such a case, whether it is Nazism, communism, fascism, or radical Islamism, individuals who are already in some way psychopathic by nature are stuck. And then they refer to that ideology to realize some of their goals, desires, urges, whatever. And here's where it's going to have to be taken in order to say it again, to make a very clear line. Freedom of religion is beyond doubt, is constitutional right, here the matter is perfectly clear. But that moment, when it begins to lead to violence, or to call for violence, or to call for human rights violations, or to call for human integrity violations, such as the integrity of women, children, and that freedom is over. And one day this Europe will have to deal with this seriously, if not, it will no longer be. Even now, it can happen that at least temporarily it will be severely dismembered. This limit should be defined. To do anything preventive, however, you must first allow your own services to respond appropriately. And that's why we proposed a year and a half ago. We do not claim that it is ideal, as was said there, an ideal law is not at all, it is larifari, but it is a law that would provide an appropriate legal basis for that when things are obviously going in a direction that eventually leads to violence, such as urging radicalisations, recruiting, then organising, such as, materially and otherwise, transport, if you want, and all the rest of that, that would have taken action at that time, not only after things have come a lot longer and when they have already fallen into that point, such as serving in foreign terrorist organizations or I do not know what kind of organisations. By then, it's a terrible long way from here. And also the question of how much more is in the power and reach of our services at that time. And these things are now going to get stronger here for a number of reasons, you see, it's perfectly clear that they will. For the first time, migrants are still being imported, either under quotas or in another way. On the other hand, Europe is still divided into individual units, and I fear that this process will only be strengthened from the day after tomorrow. And then it's just going to depend on where you are or whether you're just one external pendant of a very large country and you're kind of a pram, or whether you're in one community where you can play at least about the same role. That's why I've been recommending this all along, because it was obvious that it would lead this far. It should have been obvious to anyone last year, I'm afraid the government wasn't there. That is why I have always insisted that Slovenia should be closer to the Visegrajska Group, because the only group here is with us, where these roads that once connected the entire European Union are still functioning as they should everywhere: proper economic cooperation, security cooperation, mutual assistance, things are being politically coordinated.This should be an example for the entire European Union. [[…]] Unfortunately, if we look at what is going on in Brussels, where everyone is defending their own, in such a way that one is brought nowhere. What some fully guarantee at the summit of the European Union, however, forgive me sometimes would be good for someone to test for toxic substances. [[…]] In Slovenia the situation is such that something is objective and there is nothing that can be done against it at our local level. But we can prepare ourselves. Whether this marriage is all we need is certainly not, but it is one basis for a safer life and thus for greater prosperity. He is therefore worthy of support. Later, if a better solution is found, it is easily replaced. But this eternal delay that the Government brings, if, "yes, because we will once, well, now we have even written something" – watch out, after a year and a half – "and we have put into coordination". Yeah, what the hell did you do for a year and a half? Good morning! And that's the thing that the whole of Europe deals with most of all, or at least we should! Even if there's no country. But it'll be from the morning ahead, don't worry. And we should have done that a long time ago. However, if we are not, it is necessary to avoid any delay every day, since it poses an additional threat every day. I mean, problems just pile up. That doesn't mean that you don't admit that there's a problem, that problems disappear. It just blows up in your head sooner or later. That's all logic. And unfortunately, there's a lot of perversion here and it says, "Yeah, Slovenia is all O.K. Sorry, it's not. The moment the border opened, and half a million people went over, the problem was open. It's part before that. I'm sure it's now. Look, Germany has now finally begun what I announced last year that it will. She started returning individuals to the countries where they were first listed. It's about individuals right now, and then there's going to be dozens, and hundreds of quotas are going to be added, and it's going to be fun. This will be gradual. You know, it's European frog cooking now, you could call it. You know, if you throw a frog in a drop, it jumps out, says the legend. I really wouldn't go there to test it, but I believe those who said that know what they're talking about. But if you heat the frog slowly, it doesn't even know when it's cooked. And that's exactly what's happening in Europe. The day after tomorrow, it's all possible to blow up the cap, not just to keep it boiling from the bottom. But I'm saying here, too, I have the feeling that no coalition or government is still not clear that things have already turned to stone and that it is only a question of who will end up roasted. And I fear that in the absence of preparation, Slovenia will be roasted. What can we do? At any given time, we can adopt this law as a basis, and we can amend it. If we don't, we haven't done anything good. You must know that everyone who has expressed your intention has voted that the law is not suitable for further consideration. By the government’s forecasting, the minister said that he had some coordination and that sooner or later it would come on the agenda. Look, I can honestly tell you how much you can rely on this, so you can go look at the question when the minister was questioned. Since this was a medical case at the time, I asked him what would happen to the penile function of compensation. And he said, "I absolutely support this, this will be my first proposal as soon as I can, as soon as I'm Minister." There hasn't been any of this until today, by the way. So much for that. And we still have these cases when I was able to observe the last time that someone who's hit by a car has one injury or gets shot down somewhere else, they can only want to get hit by a car because there's at least a little bit of Europeanism in insurance companies. While for the same thing, if you have it like this, you get some kind of cash, a couple thousand or at best ten, twenty thousand euros. However, the European compensations are several times higher, not to mention individual cases where they are hundreds of times higher than we are. And, of course, that counts, the doctor will save and give you worse material, and a little less will be taken care of by some antibacterial environment. So we have a problem. Extreme negligence is less punishable than being hit by someone with a car that's really an accident. This is, say, one of these aspects. And then you have the extremes that I've talked about a lot and they're still valid. If a child is injured or for youth or for life, then he will receive an amount of 7,000 compensation or 10 or 15 at best. Down from the floor. Because then, of course, everyone's doing it and they can afford it. However, children should be particularly protected, not forgotten, in a declaration signed by Slovenia. And of course it doesn't happen because the minister doesn't do his job. Same as in a given case. For a year and a half, we're talking about this, the whole of Europe is talking about this, we've had three discussions here. And now after a year and a half it's said, "Well, we've got something prepared and we're going to put it in coordination." Fantastic, taking my breath away from that speed. That, excuse me, is, to say the least, inappropriate. But now I've been extremely diplomatic, given what I personally think. And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia is not coming anywhere. For this reason, Slovenia remained not a completely safe country. And that's why our legal order doesn't work as well as it should, because people in the government don't do their job, and you support and tolerate it. I don't know why, because in the end you'll be paying the price in the next election if no one has told you clearly. Because things are gonna change. Things have changed in people's minds, and believe me, they will, and much more. It is just whether we face it responsibly and find the right solutions or pretend that everything is in order and move forward with one extreme slowness. I personally believe that it is our shared responsibility to do everything in our power to protect people. And that is why I will vote alone and my colleagues in the SDS that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration, where we can improve it, as much as we can do together with all our common knowledge. If, of course, it is the political will and once and for all, forget about political prestige. Unfortunately, if it is given as it is now shown, the political advantage outweighs the security of the people, as announced by the government and as an obvious right coalition, then this is something that is very sad and that neither Slovenia nor its citizens nor citizens have ever earned. In the SDS, as we say, we will do differently and we will do for this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposalr, Mr Jan Mahnic, will be given the floor. The government doesn't want a word. I give you my word. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I must say that this debate was in the third time that we proposed it, but it was different from the previous two. Different in the sense that it was the first time that the government acknowledged that changes were necessary. Because in the previous two debates we have heard that we have all these actions, which he mentions and proposes a Security Council resolution, already criminalised that we do not need to change. We listened to this in December 2014, which we listened to in February and March 2015. Well, today we hear that changes to the Penal Code are still needed. And that was the only thing I heard, and not yet, unfortunately, so much from the Minister, but from the Members and Members of the Coalition. What I could hear from the minister was the only regret and personal discrediting of me and Mr Grimes. But you know, I don't have a problem with that if we all had the same starting points to discuss and if we were the same criteria. It is no problem for me to admit that perhaps at some point we could break some of this monotonousness in this House, I very much like to see the British Parliament, where there is a live debate and where such debates as Mr Minister have been quite normal. But you know what? The problem is double criteria. It is a pity that Mr Brglez is not here now, because, as the Minister has discussed with me and Mr Grimes, there was no problem, but if I had told the Minister to go out of the hall, remove his fungal shoes and then come back to speak, I would have received a warning and be interrupted immediately. The fact that he had funky shoes said the KPK president that the government had fallen because of him and that everything was illegal. Or if I told the minister to bring the accounts from where he owned it first, and then let him speak here, he'd probably be interrupted and given a reminder. Mr Brglez does not allow Members to debate this way, but Minister Klemenčič can discuss it as he wishes. Let's take a direct case. By the way, Montenegro, as the Minister has offended Montenegro today, I do not remember whether he sat here 14 days ago when Mr Cerar sang praises to Montenegro when the President of the Assembly of Montenegro sat there, how Slovenia supports Montenegro's European path, how we contributed and are pleased to join NATO. Today, this minister, the Minister of the Cerara government, says, "...what a Montenegro, but I prefer Europe rather than a Montenegro." See, this may be an international scandal as the Minister of this Government speaks of a country that will soon be with us in the alliance, perhaps even once in the European Union. It's a scandal. And I'm counting on you to at least apologize to them. I was at the NATO Parliamentary Liaison Assembly and I spoke with my colleagues from the Balkans. The Bosnians told me in 2014 that they changed the Penal Code precisely because of these foreign terrorist fighters. And they delivered it to me and I looked at it, so we summarized some of the solutions then under the Bosnian penal code. At the last parliamentary assemblies of NATO, the Montenegrins were very active. When I asked them if they had to change legislation, which is, of course, logical, that they had to do it now in this process of joining the European Union, my colleague said, "Yes, we have also changed the Penal Code." By the way, they were mentored by Americans under this penal code. He said that in this process they also had to change the penal code for foreign terrorist fighters. And so with your left hand take one state, mock it – then let the Prime Minister of the Government say another thing: Do not say it here or this is the position of the Prime Minister of the Government. I don't know. Let's get together another time. It's a specific case. Now I have to say this again so I won't give away any classified information. Let's say Owl knows about some XY citizen who wants to go to Syria. Can we stop him under this law? If I can, who can? Will we wait for him to go to Syria? Because at present, for example, preparatory actions are under way, and before we followed him, someone was protecting him. Can we or can't we? For two years, we heard that the Italians could prove that we couldn't. And now we are saying that changes are necessary. We have proposed this in good faith, so we proposed in the first debate that those things that you think are not clear enough, here you wrote that they are not clear words "offers", "gives", "requires", "requires", "gathers", "provides" or "covers" see, because I can bring you the dictionary of the Slovenian book language if you do not know what these words mean. That's more than clear to us. But if that's a problem, if that's a problem, then there's another reading where you can put your amendments. I really don't know why it is necessary to open the same debate at all times, in order for the coalition to recognise after two, three, that the opposition is right. But this is also the extreme limit to which we go to tell the opposition that she was right to some extent. Look, it's already a win for us that you're going to change, because they're more than necessary. But I don't know why it took two years to say there's no problem. But for two years, terrorists have been walking around here, recruiting under the pretext of working in some butcher shop or whatever else I know. You know, that's the only problem. If we were to say that we were going into change at the time, we would be going together, and today we would have these changes. And just for the end, Minister, you were wrong. In the parliamentary elections, if you want to run in some district, you don't need a permanent residence there. So I really hope, before you talked about the valley of Poland, that someday we'll face each other. Because after the result, I think I'll tell you with your 2013 words "when numbers talk, bullshit walks".
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u141	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're crossing the NA 26. At the end of the day, this is to the President of the Committee for the Prevention of the Corruption of Mr Boris Stefanec. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a group of nine Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. At its 20th meeting, on 26 May 2016, the draft decision was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the working body of the mother. Since the Commission did not adopt parts of the draft decision after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a decision was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The distinguished representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in Article 22, paragraph 4, provides that the President of the Republic may, on a proposal from the National Assembly, dismiss the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption if he fails to perform functions in accordance with the Constitution and the law. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the content of the provision allowing for the early resolution of the President of the Commission in order to prevent corruption must be understood within the meaning of the principle of the division of power. An essential element of this principle is the Institute of Brakes and Balance, which establishes a constitutionally coherent balance between the institutions of different functions. The main responsibility of the President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption is to represent the Commission and to lead and organise its work. Its resolution may only take place for reasons laid down in the tax ruling and it is imperative that the existence of specific infringements of the Constitution or the law be determined before the decision on discharge is taken. Such a decision must not be politically or legally unrelated. The reasons given by the applicant in his decision are such. The alleged violations contained in the applicant's material cannot be said to be specific breaches of the Constitution and the law. Nor can it be argued that these alleged violations of the Constitution and of the Commission President's law to prevent corruption have caused any harmful consequences that would require the exercise of responsibility. An individual may only be held responsible for his actions if this is proved to him in the manner prescribed by the law. By adopting the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the legislator appointed one body responsible for overseeing the officials of all three branches of government and other independent and independent state bodies. For this reason, it is all the more important that this body therefore enjoys its independent and independent position in order to prevent corruption. Members and Members of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre are of the view that the proposal does not justify a discharge when the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the National Assembly, can dismiss the President of the Commission, so we could not support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your word, Mr. German. The unaffiliated Members and Nova Slovenija have initiated a procedure for the dismissal of the President of the KPK Senate, Boris Štefanec. It is interesting, however, that, in other far more fateful cases, for the state and its officials, the illegal and unconstitutional actions of the KPK officials were seen not only as deplorable but even as gratifying. Many statements confirm that many political structures on the left and right had high political expectations. Infringements of human rights, laws and constitutions did not disturb them, nor did it warn many legal experts. But more than the proposal to rescue the Stepheneans are important statements he made to the applicants' testimonies. Among other things, he said that Drago Kos and Goran Klemenčič had refused to step into the shoes of their predecessors because they were burdened with fungi of illegal conduct. In other words, its predecessors used or abused KPK illegally for political accounts with persons who did not belong to their ideological circle. Simply put, there has been systemic corruption at the KPK to achieve political, economic and other benefits for certain political groups and lobbies, so exactly what the KPK should specifically pursue. The KPK target at that time was mainly Janez Janša and also some other SDS policies, as well as some experts in the rule of law institutions, such as Supreme Prosecutor Dragica Kotnik and some others. This statement about the fungi of infected shoes probably didn't come to mind by Boris Stefanec. He's got the paperwork, and he's probably got witnesses. But Stephenean's predecessors in the KPK Senate were rewarded. One, Drago Kos, has a wonderful contract with NLB for the award, the other, Rok Praprotnik, has received a fantastic job in NLB, Lilliana Selinšek has been awarded a job at the Ministry of Justice, and Goran Klemenčič has brought the fungi of infected shoes to the Ministry of Justice, the present, that is Cerarje's government. He also became minister for the prize. So those who illegally broke, slandered, polluted, abused, became richly paid lavrettes of the Cerareg regime. Above all, Cerar, the president of the self-proclaimed most ethical government in the history of Slovenia, who has not responded at all to statements made by KPK President Boris Štefanec. The public did not explain why, in the government, Minister Goran Klemenčič, who is a violator of laws, human rights, constitutions, has all the independent institutions that have decided on the work of the Klemenčič Chamber of the Commission to prevent corruption: the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the Information Officer and others. Members of the SDS have also sent a letter to the Prime Minister of Cerar, to which there has been no reply for a long time. Klemenčič hasn't given up either. Once, when he mistakenly and unconstitutionally identified the so-called unexplained wealth situation of John Janša and the role of the current policy in the National Assembly and the Government, it was not entirely following his procedural and substantive mistakes, delusions and constructions, he was able to resign. Now that Goran Klemenčič is no longer able to blackmail politicians and is part of the executive power, he cannot do that anymore. Nor does Prime Minister Cerar, because he has already confused the concept too much and for some time knows no more what ethics, legality, constitutionality, honesty, justice, human rights and more. And Prime Minister Cerar, with this government team, is still on his way to a deeper swamp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u145	Mr. Tanko, thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be moved by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u146	Mr President, I thank you for the floor. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! We have been discussing for more than four hours the proposal to propose the discharge of the President of the Republic by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Boris Štefanec, but we have not supported such a decision. The Group of Non-Aligned Members and the New Slovenia Group of Members, inter alia, justifying the proposal for the discharge of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission by, among other things, that he has stepped into too many shoes, that he is not personally and professionally fit for this work, that he is stubborn or that the KPK has put up disputes and tricks and fraud. But these are just not very kind opinions. Under these are the first to be signed by the former Prime Minister and the current Member, who has been dealt with by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption due to alleged irregularities in her candidacy as Commissioner of the European Commission. On the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and its President, each can have its own opinion, including the former Prime Minister, but it is difficult to shake the feeling that it is an average action by the anti-corruption commission because he even dared to round it up. We can think and also the vast majority of the public do not have a good opinion on the commission under the chairmanship of Stefanec, but such an opinion does not yet provide a valid reason for the proposal of the National Assembly to the President of the Republic to dismiss Stefanec and appoint a new President of the PKK. Also critical opinions, published in the media, no. The law is clear here. This procedure can only be initiated by the National Assembly if Stefanec violates the Constitution and laws in his work. While the applicants for the discharge are very hospitable in their explanation, they are mostly at the general level. If we go for a little bit in a row. The OECD Working Group's report, which is supposed to be the chronic evidence for Štefanec, is essentially referring to the reform of the KPK and does not mention Štefanec at all. The reference to the findings of the Administrative Court, which partly favoured Alenka Bratušek’s claim that her constitutional rights had been violated in the proceedings, is also not convincing. Finally, KPK has been using the same treatment procedure for years, so it is likely that the procedure needs to be changed, not replaced by the President of the KPK. The alleged disputed acquisition of bank accounts data has already been clarified by Stefanec. The reasons for the applicants' argument that Štefanec should be replaced because one of the KPK employees was not supposed to pay the parking fee, but most of the information about the seriousness of the proposal. In the DeSUS Group, we don't want to say that there's nothing wrong with the committee. On the contrary. We are also of the opinion that it is not doing well to spread the internal conflict, but it has been appointed by the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, and therefore it is the responsibility of the Commission to replace it if necessary. It is for President Pahor to show the state's attitude and take a position on the problem. Therefore, we did not support the proposal for a decision by Members for those reasons on the Mandate-Election Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u147	Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u148	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a decision proposing to the President of the Republic of Slovenia to dismiss the President of the Commission to prevent the corruption of Boris Štefanec is the first such proposal to be considered in the National Assembly. The motioners, fellow Members and fellow Members have given their arguments or reasons for the dismissal of Mr Štefanec in four sets, where they have pointed out the irregularities that have taken place or are still taking place on the Commission to prevent corruption. It is not possible to close your eyes, respected that certain past decisions of the KPK were not appropriate. Also those which have been annulled by the courts in judicial proceedings. Unfortunately, we are also witnessing the fact that there is clearly a breach of trust in the cooperation of members of the KPK Senate, which undoubtedly makes the Commission's smooth functioning more difficult. Therefore, the situation at the KPK is all earlier than pink. The question is whether the discharge of the KPK President is the right way and the answer to the problems faced by the Commission. It is therefore necessary to make it clear here that this is a proposal that requires a political opinion and a decision from us and Members in particular. The legal assessment of the actions of the President of the PSC is of secondary importance in this case. It is necessary to know that the possible resolution of the KPC would necessarily have certain social consequences and reactions not only in the home, but also in the international public, which would hardly overlook the fact that politics in Slovenia has decided to dismiss the president of the Commission, who is fighting corruption and conflicts of interest in his mission. Also against corruption and the interests of public officials, ladies and gentlemen! The decision of the National Assembly to initiate the procedure for the discharge of the President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption should therefore be supported by strong substantive reasons which would have proven to burden the President of the Commission with more serious legal violations and violations of the Constitution committed by a more serious form of guilt. As the Social Democrats have said, we are aware of the shortcomings in the functioning of the Commission's current composition to prevent corruption. There have also been mistakes made by the chairman of the commission, for which he is responsible. We are also aware of the position and role of the Commission in preventing corruption and its President as an institution that performs an important supervisory function in our society, which is also specific because of its smallness. On the basis of all the above arguments for and against the initiation of the discharge procedure by the President of the Commission to prevent corruption, we have decided this time not to support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Han. The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! In this mandate, we are talking much more about the Commission's problems of preventing corruption than we are talking about the very problems of corruption. Despite the fact that the situation in both areas is far more than unsatisfactory. Nevertheless, we have not yet seen concrete solutions, even though they would be more than necessary. From the Senate's appearance under the leadership of Klemenčič to the failed appointment of a new Senate, to the resignations and reappointments of members of the Senate, to the contested political membership of the new President and to the disputes between members themselves, the issue of the Commission is in fact growing. And there are more and more problems. This situation corresponds mainly to two groups. On the one hand, it corresponds to the proponents of abolishing the commission in corruption affairs. The Commission's findings are also subject to a number of manipulations by those who find themselves in the proceedings before it. There is always evidence of bias, political motivation and, of course, every final conclusion is challenged in court. The problems related to the Anti-Corruption Commission are, therefore, only water per mill to those who are the most frequently suspected of corruption or who are constantly walking along a thin border that is unacceptable. And, of course, there are politicians who are still performing their functions smoothly today, but all the time they are referring to the fact that the Commission has violated their rights, that procedures are illegal and so on. As can be seen from the explanation, all the evidence listed is also the basis for the decision on the proposal of the President of the Republic to release the President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. But we have also found ourselves in a situation that has more than a bitter taste. The first to be signed under the discharge proposal is one of those who, because of the suspicion of corruption, also came before the Commission. Of course, one of the findings is that the commission should violate human rights when it reads and conducts a corrupt act against her. It is clear that proposing yourself for the European Commissioner is not ethical, not moral, of course. However, since the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption has not yet been adequately corrected today, the final decision of the Commission in this case has also been brought before the court. However, the Court did not determine whether it was actually corruption or not, but simply whether the proceedings conducted by the Commission were correct. And because of the still unaltered law, this time the decision was the same as in all similar cases. The procedure shall be adjusted inappropriately and each important finding of the Commission shall, as a result, fall before the Administrative Court. As a result, we are witnessing again and again the same distortions and manipulations in this regard. This is all a clear indication that the problems with the Commission alone to prevent corruption and the procedures it is leading are large. The inactive Commission, however, benefits only and only those who apparently find it very difficult to resist corruption. But only with the discharge of the President of the Commission will the situation not improve. This will not happen even with a debate alone. Until we change the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the situation will remain completely unchanged. The level of corruption and the number of corruption affairs will only increase. Without amending the law and proper regulation of the procedure, we will continue to have officials who cannot explain where their assets come from. We will still have mayors with more corruption than successful projects. Even with the resolution of the current President of the Commission, a situation that is truly unsustainable will not improve. In order to improve the situation, it is essential to amend legislation in the first place. We have repeatedly called on the government and coalition in the United Left to act, but nothing has happened until today. If the Government does not shortly prepare more than the necessary amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, then the question will soon arise whether or not it is also the one that is in fact suited to this chaotic state in this area. Under the line, we can conclude that there are no winners in this story, as it turns out, they're just losers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u152	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats co-proposed this proposal to the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the discharge of the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Even before the appointment of the current President, Mr Štefanec, this institution is accompanied by very contradictory developments and the role that KPK is supposed to play, so to speak, spirits are shared if we express ourselves in a symbolic sense. In New Slovenia, we believe that an institution that detects and prosecutes corruption must be more credible than this moment, and that the role that the KPK is supposed to play should be discussed differently. We also believe that it should be established differently and redesigned with different powers. What exactly is going on with this committee? We Members were informed, in essence, by the media, anonymous and individual members of the current Senate, of the worrying facts that govern the relations between members of the KPK Senate. In practice, we know that when a person is overly involved with himself, that means that the task entrusted to him is not governed by quality and credibility. These tensions within the KPK Senate also reflected the above-mentioned meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Just before the appointment of the current President, two members of the first Senate immediately withdrew, expressing their doubts about the fairness of the choice. In Novi Slovenije, we signed the proposal for a decision on the grounds that the President of the Republic should be re-examined by the decision on the election of the President of the Commission. While the decision on the competent labour body has not received support, this does not mean that everything is in order as far as the Commission’s action to prevent corruption is concerned. In New Slovenia, we believe that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption should wash dirty laundry in public for reasons of unregulated and conflict relations in the Senate. We can therefore assess that the Commission has problems with its own integrity and the real question is how credible an institution can be, which can decide on the issue of corruption and integrity and impose sanctions on individuals and other bodies alike.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u153	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u154	Nice hello, again. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We all note that there are too many problems with corruption in Slovenia and that we must be active in the fight against corruption. The Anti-Corruption Commission was set up a few more than ten years ago to prevent corruption and reduce the risks associated with it. Of course, for a long and broad discussion of what corruption is and what the risks are related to whether the law is good, the real law in force, the Commission has too little or maybe too much competence, is humanely qualified and could also raise questions. Of course, we will also have to find answers to these questions, but today we are dealing with another problem or reason. The material before you was prepared with great consideration and very weighty. The Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption clearly states that the National Assembly exercises control over the performance of the commission’s tasks, Article 20 speaks about this. The above law also clearly sets out the reasons or conditions for the discharge of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. Article 22 of the Act in the fourth paragraph empowers the National Assembly to propose to the President of the Republic of Slovenia the discharge of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the members of the Senate of the Commission in the event of a violation of a law or constitution. And that is exactly what we have done according to the law of the Members, who have signed under the material which is before you. We have reasoned and explained our reasons in four points. First of all, the problem of integrity in the hair organ. Secondly, it is illegal to obtain and store bank data in the same way as all citizens. Third time, severe OECD criticism. Fourthly, unlawful and arbitrary conduct and violation of constitutional rights established by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, based on specific judgment number IU 1576/2014-45. In its judgment, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that the Commission had violated constitutional rights in several stages of the proceedings, that the law had been violated, and had arbitrarily and arbitrarily ruled. Mr Štefanec spoke on the Mandate-Election Commission about the political decisions of his predecessors, according to the previous two presidents. What does it mean to be arbitrary and arbitrary? I think we can draw an equation with a lot of ease and say - it's the same political decision. Finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out once again our responsibility. I do not think that he is among us who would be willing to commend the work of the President of the KPK, Mr Štefanec, or the anti-corruption commission under his leadership. We do not have good words, we all agree that we should do better and that they do not actually pursue the goal that we should. They deal with themselves, 22 people, which is more than half, more than 50% of the employees have left the Commission since its new president. Isn't that a good reason to act? I guess not. According to the coalition, Mr Štefanec is doing well or this situation at the KPK may even suit you. The more they deal with themselves, the less they deal with corruption. The more they're dealing with their president, the less they say they're dealing with you, the less they say they're dealing with you. That's obviously the goal you're following. As a Member alone, together with the other signatories, I could not do more than secure a signature under the proposal for a discharge. We've alerted you to the problem, we've alerted you to a violation of the constitution, we've alerted you to a violation of the law. You, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, have simply decided that you do not want corruption to really slowly end. As is the case today, the PKK does nothing with Mr Stefanec to fight corruption, and that obviously suits you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thanks, mag. Cousin. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the consideration of the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6.30 p.m. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u156	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services and Systems in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 25th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the problem of the simplified connection of Probanka, d. d., and Factor Banka, d. d., to DUTB, d.d., which is why the need for its recapitalisation would arise. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the proposal for a recommendation, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present and 52 votes against 19. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! For the third time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed amending the Penal Code, but this time in different circumstances. For the first time in two years in circumstances where the government itself has acknowledged that changes to the Penal Code are necessary, because in both of the previous discussions of our two proposals it has claimed otherwise that we have all these acts relating to United Nations Security Council Resolution No 2178, criminalised and that this is not necessary. That is not true now we have received a message from two sides, for the first time from Italy, when it was necessary to arrest Roc Zavbi, for whom we had known for two years that he had fought on the side of the Islamic State, but we did not do anything, despite, of course, recognizing that the Italian police had not arrested him because he had fought in Syria, but because, after coming from Syria, he had recruited Italian citizens to join the fighters and fighters of the Islamic State. However, another recognition, as I have already said, was that something must be done, and said Minister Klemenčič immediately after news came out that Rok Zavbi was arrested on the basis of an Italian warrant. The problem is that such cases are becoming more and more. Those who are members of the KNOVS know what I'm talking about, for others it might not be bad if we had one closed meeting of the National Assembly, that you could all see how many Slovenians are actually down, who are going to go and what's going on with it, and that we really need to change this legislation. Minister Klemenčič said at the time that the government would make changes in the summer, and in the autumn we would decide. At that time, I said on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party at the meeting that we are not going to wait until autumn, because we will probably hear again in autumn that things are being analysed or that they are in inter-departmental coordination. That's why we proposed our marriage. The government had comments, in particular that some things were repeated. It's no problem, you can make amendments in the second reading, and you can put what you don't like out. You can even, if you already have your proposal so far, give it according to us or correct ours with the amendments, so that it will be accepted. No need to wait until autumn, given the security situation, action is needed now. Daesh will not disappear overnight, there may be some transformation, it is possible to move to Libya, it is possible to move back to Afghanistan, that former members of Al Qaeda are already joining and can thus be followed by the re-destabilization of Afghanistan. Whether to settle somewhere in the area of Mesopotamia or the fourth option is the most favourable, but at the same time the least likely possibility of the matter failing to create some virtual caliphate waiting for a new opportunity. In short, threats won't change. So I propose that we support this proposal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I said before, we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u158	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u159	Brussels, Paris, London, Madrid is just a few European capitals where terrorist activities and attacks have already taken place. Terrorism is no longer just a thing out there, but it is becoming more and more real in Europe. And it is the duty of this house to take care of everything necessary to protect its own citizens. While other Western European countries and their security intelligence services are beginning to invest intensively in their infrastructure, in their tools to be able to adequately and effectively monitor criminal and terrorist organisations, we hardly talk about these things or those we talk about there seem to be barking away. The examples we have in Slovenia show that Slovenian legislation is such that it requires a high burden of proof or a high standard of proof from the country. Not every one of us has rocket launchers at home, neither does each of us go down to Syria and fight. The other Western European countries have adapted their criminal legislation in the direction that voluntary detention in areas controlled by a terrorist organisation is a crime. Other countries have gone in the direction of taking travel documents, ID cards, passports to potential passengers down there so they can't just leave the country. And at least what this National Assembly can do is adopt appropriate legislation to give the police the appropriate tools so that they can act against terrorists in a timely manner. We do not want Slovenia to become a safe haven for terrorists. The least we can do today is to support this amendment of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u160	Miha Kordiš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, chairman. Measures against terrorism are certainly necessary. But in order to be able to adopt effective legislation so that we can effectively fight terrorism, we must be sure that terrorism is a structural phenomenon. Simple moralist facts about religious extremists are not enough. Rather, let us ask ourselves how these religious extremists came to be. The answer is in the palm of our hand. Religious, in particular Islamic extremism, has been established and strengthened in parallel, as imperialist intervention in the global south has been strengthened, more precisely in the Middle East. The imperialistic ambitions of Western countries, our so-called NATO allies, are those that have created conditions that are not suitable for life in the Middle East. They destroyed infrastructure, destroyed any serious images of countries, and in such conditions of social chaos, poverty, misery, hopelessness, people can find answers to life's questions and some solutions that should be drawn from everyday misery, including in extreme religious ideologies. This is the structural basis on which terrorism has grown. Will the proposed amendments to the Penal Code lead to the replacement of the conditions from which terrorism grows? They won't! The phenomenon of terrorism fueled by social misery simply cannot be grasped by stepping up repression, violating the rights, freedoms of all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. The restriction of human rights is not a substitute for Europe and within it, as well as Slovenia and the entire Western Council to change their policies to the global south, in a specific case to the Middle East. Our bombs, our armies our allies were the ones that drove the entire region into poverty and misery and thereby established a creative breeding ground from which religious extremists can come. We should really talk about this, this could offer us some long-term and truly creative solutions to deal with the problem of terrorism. The degree of repression through amendments to the Penal Code is not the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u162	The explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party shall be mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Terrorism and foreign fighters are now a reality we cannot escape. However, the indication that this is already on this scale in Slovenia and we should be afraid of it is not true. The fact that, in the case of Rok Zavbi, a criminal offence was committed, in fact, we could not incriminate it because it is not in the Penal Code, is not true. Everything through is trying to mislead the public about it. The fact is, there was a criminal charge against him, but there was not enough evidence. As far as the crime service in Italy is concerned, the fact that the Slovenian police could not arrest him was because he did this in a foreign area and not in our area. We still say that Slovenia is safe and that the Government has taken the migration situation in time for the necessary measures. Being so safe is not just a case, but a real consequence of the right decisions. As regards the amendment of the Penal Code and the reference to Security Council resolutions, this is absolutely inappropriate. That's not the real basis. Indeed, the European Union is working hard in this situation to unify legislation so as not to give rise to different interpretations. Our government will unify legislation in accordance with the Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, but it does not mean that this has not been regulated so far. As soon as we look at the proposal we have before us, this proposal is inconsistent and, in fact, contrary to the principle of legality in the Penal Code. Indeed, the opposition can make a law relatively fast, but this has one flaw. In view of the fact that the Government is enacting laws, this must be coordinated with both the professional and the interested public, which is not necessary in opposition laws. In the end, it happens that these laws are unconstitutional, and in the end, it is obvious that the opposition is rejected mainly because this law is opposition, but it is forgotten that we are here to adopt laws that are also legally correct. We do not support this law and this proposal in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u164	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 51. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you know, in the new Income Law, we have proposed to increase the overall relief to €7,000 and to end the rather imprudent step-by-step relief. What exactly does this novelty bring to the marriage? It brings more €77 per year to those with a minimum wage. This means about €6.7 per month more. It brings to those who have an average salary of around €770 at an annual level a higher net income, and those who have, for example, 30,000 annual wages bring a higher net to those who have an average salary. Why 7 grand? Also because 7 000 111 is that annual poverty risk threshold, which was calculated for 2015, for the previous year. And respected colleagues, colleagues, we have studied a lot, including the coalition agreement, which binds this coalition to work in the government, and how many times is this coalition agreement mentioned here to relieve the economy and to make efforts to get a worker to get a citizen a bigger net. We have our salary charged, perhaps most in the world. In fact, we have followed the direction of the coalition agreement. We've been waiting for the government to come with solutions. Since there are no solutions, we want to help this coalition. I would also like to add this, this law would not enter into force tomorrow, it would only enter into force on 1 January 2018, so the Government has every opportunity to prepare such tax legislation or other legislation in a year and a half, read structural reforms that would make up for the shortfall that the Ministry of Finance has calculated and I do not trust him too much. I think the number of the budget deficit is too high. So we have a year and a half to make up for the budget deficit. It is said that the Government comes with some tax solutions, but both associations, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have torn up these proposals. I heard on the radio this morning that this proposal was supported by four or five managers. Okay, but look, we're not interested in cosmetics, we're not interested in tax makeup, we're interested in concrete solutions to relieve the cost of work. The opportunity is here to make a really good solution in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u166	Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, chairman. It does not claim that in Slovenia we have incomparably taxed wages, nor does it argue that this bill, which is before us today, is a good one. The only thing he's holding on to is that he's addressing a real problem. But this real problem is trying to solve in a way that, for the first time, is socially unfair to our people and, for the second time, financially harmful to the country. Step-by-step progression is a social adjustment. We know that there can be cases where an overtime worker has lower net earnings after taxation than he would have had if he hadn't done it. But this solution we have on the table is not social justice. If we introduced a general relief of €7,000, for example, the worker's income with a minimum wage would increase by €77. On the other hand, the director's income of 10,000 euros goes up to a thousand 850 euros. That's the definition of social injustice. The proposed solution, however, is a perfect disaster for the budget. I'd use the term assassination on public finances myself. There would be a drop of as much as €470 million or half a billion, which is about a quarter of all the income we collected last year. Such a loss of budgetary revenue is not a joke to replace with anything else. We will not support this proposal in the United Left. We cannot support it much less in the light of the fact that there is a relatively simple alternative. Step-by-step relief should be replaced by a single overall relief, while at the same time increasing tax progress, especially those of the highest incomes, is needed. In this case, we would maintain the same budgetary revenue, while at the same time the richest losses of the Slovenian population would not grant certain tax exemptions without any serious need. We also oppose the law in the United Left because of the general opposition to neoliberal doctrine on the basis of which this proposal is based, the neoliberal doctrine of low taxes. We know this low-tax doctrine that development is completely ineffective. All the research shows a complete contrast. Reducing taxes contributes to growth and development only minimally and only for a short period of time increases employment and then the effects return, with the sole profit of redistributing the entire wealth in our society — from those who do not have enough, to those who already have enough. We're in.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u168	Peace in the hall, please. First of all, we have explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Once we do this, we'll do an explanation on our own behalf and then we'll vote. Mr Tillen Bozič has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u169	Good evening, too, on my side! In the SMC Group, we believe that such a solution is not appropriate for further consideration. It basically solves one of the injustices introduced by this stepfacing relief. We're aware of that. This is a solution introduced in 2008 and we have already stressed that we take it well, that the proposaler recognized it, given that it was adopted under their leadership at the time and that it is now being tackled. But it's different after we look at the numbers. It has already been mentioned that the impact on public finances is almost half a billion euros. Income is one of the key sources of funding for municipalities. When we discuss this, we also discuss all the transfers and services offered by the municipalities. They are already in a difficult situation, and about half of that, I don't know, I'm talking about 200, 250 million, taken away, this would also have a big impact on how much money the municipalities could spend on kindergartens and how much they could spend on homes for the elderly, representing one of their extremely important expenses. Who's that going for? Thus, if we had a smaller family, perhaps with the elderly in the family, with the children, with those who earn the least, we would have, as mentioned earlier, around €70.80 per year more income. On the other hand, 50, 100 euros more per month for kindergarten, for a nursing home. Here comes the question of whether we apologize or even think about the social state that is enshrined in the Constitution. The fact is that when someone has, previously mentioned, almost EUR 2 000 at an annual level, which has high incomes, how much this means to him compared to how many people receive low incomes, and compared to those children who have older children in the family and so on. For this reason, we are in the parliamentary group's opinion, as previously said, that this is not appropriate, because we need to take into account broader figures, also to look at what we have somehow adopted with a fiscal rule that we are approaching the mid-term fiscal objective by 2020. One such effect, which also reaches 1.5 per cent of GDP, could, despite the fact that this year is 2018, still be at a time when we are approaching the goal that we have set ourselves, could be one of the larger points of view. This is how we insist, as we have said, on the restructuring of the tax burdens, on the need to improve collection, while somehow as far as administration is concerned, the solutions that have already been and are put in by some other laws must be kept working on this. As we say, we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u170	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratušek
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The fact is that the law before us is publicly too burdensome. But no matter what, respected colleagues and colleagues, this proposal will continue if we are to make a change of course. And that is why we will also support the proposal on the table in our parliamentary group. We're aware that he's an impossibility. But it's not true that there's nothing to be done. We have been listening for quite some time to every tax law, if I can call it that nothing can be done in this economic situation. You are proud that we have such economic growth as we have, unemployment is declining. Nice. But in such an economic situation, it is time for certain changes in our country to be felt by people. And with a raise in general relief, that's exactly what would be done. People would also feel positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u172	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u173	Dear Members and Members! In these days, you've probably received such a red book from Umar. You have nice graphs in here. If you have looked closely at what is driving the Slovenian economy, you can see, the graph for export goes so up, and the graph for domestic consumption is clearly growing, slowly growing. And any economist will ask what needs to be done in this country, so that more jobs can be created and the economy can start up is a key answer: to increase domestic consumption. How do you do that? It's no different than keeping people in their wallets. There's no other way. New Slovenia is preparing proposals and solutions. At least we've prepared two so far. One is that you have 3,000,300 of your annual earnings undeclared – you said it was wrong. We have come up with a new solution, by increasing the overall relief — and it is not right. Of course, absolutely, in all our proposals, there is a deficit or budget gap of between 200 million and 400 million. But that means 200 million and 400 million people are left in their pockets. And what does the economy tell you, what do people tell you? That they don't like tax reform because it's some kind of restructuring, because from the left to the right pocket lady. That's not what they want. People want to keep something concrete in their pockets. What's to replace? That's what we said. If we raised the overall relief, net wages would rise and we would have the opportunity to lower gross wages in the public sector. That's one aspect. The second aspect is economic growth. I don't know where they're taking these things if we keep rejecting all this stuff over and over again. But if you want to relieve people of their tax burden, then something will have to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u174	Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. The law cannot be supported because, in fact, the general tax relief relates to 98% of the taxpayers, then almost half a billion euros is the budget deficit, and what is worrying is that income is divided into almost half of the state budget and half of it into municipal budgets. If we are talking today about taking away 250 million euros from the municipalities, then we must be aware that this proposal is not in any way compatible with the municipalities. In all the debates that we have already had due to the low leveling or income that we provide to the municipalities, such a measure is completely inconsistent with local self-government. Such a large number of congregations are unacceptable. What can actually be highlighted is that it would make sense to relieve the tax burden on those who actually receive the lowest wages. And this is also our proposal, which we have in our economic programme. Not all of them. This general relief, or this law, speaks of all, both those rich and those with very low incomes. It is necessary to relieve those with low incomes and also to enable engineers who are actually the most developed to relieve their net wages by appropriate tax rates. This is a measure that leads to development. Of course, the budget must also be balanced. Without a balanced budget, this revenue also means that less money will be available for human social security. And we haven't actually done anything, we've actually done a lot of damage if that's accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u176	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, chairman. Healthy economic growth can be achieved by raising domestic demand. But from the quality of this demand and the health of economic growth, there will be nothing if we try to achieve this with tax exemptions for the rich. Raising domestic demand requires better salaries of the working class, including the middle class, if you want, and by no means tax gifts to capital and the richest. This is exactly what the current proposal for a step-up progression is. As long as someone on the floor can benefit from this proposal for €77, some director, who receives €10,000, and for the poor €2,000, cannot talk about any social justice, nor can we talk about any serious rise in internal demand. Last but not least, I think the Ministry's representatives have charged themselves to put €20 million into the state budget through such a measure through demand. In the meantime, this same proposal in public finances is piling up a hole, hardly a half a billion euros. The neoliberal tax reduction doctrine has not really worked anywhere, and any serious economist can tell you that. Yes, it leads to an increase in growth and employment in a short period of time, but this period is precisely that – short. Shortness of breath. Then the effects of the tax burden on the rich fade away and the public services remain worse for the people. Revenues for education are falling, revenues for health care, infrastructure, even for the military, not least, revenues are falling. Such a measure favouring capital, while citing work, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u178	Please. I really don't want to argue. We're going to vote now. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Then I'm asking you to sign up so we can know how many there are. Hold on, let's stop right there. The one who actually came forward was Mr Joseph Horvat and has the floor to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secondly, I will vote in favour of the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration. Because in the second reading, ladies and gentlemen, maybe more simulations could be done. Perhaps 7,000 is unacceptable for the majority — what about 6,000? We have calculated, but of course we do not have all the tools that the Ministry of Finance has in order to have around 232 million outages. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are working in New Slovenia for the socio-market model of the economy, which has been verified in Europe. It works more than successfully in Germany. We would not want, ladies and gentlemen, to have such a demand as in Venezuela, where they rob shops at night. No, no, no. We are a modern society and our solutions must go in a different direction – in the direction of a socio-market model economy. The municipalities, yes, of course, the congregations will be damaged. But the original income of the congregations is a property tax. Let's work on making up for it. But this, of course, must be done in accordance with the principles required by law. And I simply do not understand why we should continue to pursue an active policy of emigration. Have you looked at the data, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition? We have a record migration deficit last year. About the same as he was in 1991 when the war threatened us and people fled. And we have a heartache about evicting young intellectuals. We can't let that happen. Here we must take some concrete steps, concrete solutions. And this is one example that, I'm sure, with a little political will, with a little more political will, could be improved in the second reading. But we have to get there. That's why we vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u180	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I didn't mean to come by, but what I hear on the other side is not that it's nice saying, but it's misleading. What will we do with this measure, with this bill, if we do not, of course, accept it? We would relieve top management, burden directors and quasi-directors, and make even poorer those who already need the help of the state. Even those who need social transfers. With the loss of income of about half a billion and 490 million, we could not afford transfers for these people. It's an antisocial measure, it's a handball move. I'm against it, and I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u182	Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u183	I'm for normal taxation, not charity, which we give to people through social transfers. If there is a higher tax relief, less social transfers will be needed, and I think people want what they deserve, not social transfers. I wouldn't want to brag about it. And if we keep comparing ourselves to Austria, there's a tax relief of 11,000 euros and we have 3,000. So there's a big difference, and so the migrant workers who got the job in another country are protesting, and we have to pay this big difference. Of course, it is wrong to forgive them if they live in our country because they benefit our roads, they go to our schools, children use health care, etc. It's not right for them to be better than we are. And what can we do to make all of us more equal? If we increase the general tax relief, there is no need for so many social transfers, people will spend more, and the country will also receive VAT from this. The most crafty of vines, however, seems to me to be the explanation that the congregations will be deprived of. Where, though, were you when the congregations demanded proper spending and did you not want to grant them this right?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u184	Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I, too, will support this proposal. It's because I said on Friday that it seems fair for me to raise the general tax relief from 3,000 100 to 7,000 so that those with the lowest income in this country will get more. And no, they're not going to get 77 euros. For someone, it's a whole month's survival. And I'll say something else when you mention pensions and you compare how and what. Those who have more will get more, those who have less, yet will not get virtually nothing. But come on, gentlemen of the coalition, why are you talking so unfairly? Then why do we have a system of pensions so that the one who has a higher pension gets more, the one with a little, the one with just a little. Why is it so done? If we want to do this, let's just unify everything. The one who has a higher pension will get less, and the one who has a smaller one will get more. Why don't we turn the whole thing around? And once again, I invited Desus on Friday, if you don't mind, everyone with a minimum wage should be forgiven. Now you'll tell me, Mr. Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u186	No, no, no. I sincerely hope that here we are aware that we are at a point called the explanation of our own voice. No, we're not interested in others, we're interested in our own voice. Any other explanation for your own voice? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. In New Slovenia, they say that in some ways we would increase consumption, so that it would affect everything possible, including new jobs, etc. But it's clear to everyone, I think we've heard this a number of times, that if we give those who already have enough to consume, that's not going to happen. However, if we look only a little further across Europe, we see that the least income is paid in Bulgaria, where the highest rate is 10%. Nevertheless, Bulgaria is thus an example for a country where low employment, record poverty and also massive evictions. In short, this is a model that is at least partially proposed by Nova Slovenija. And I can't support a model like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u188	Same as before. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 52. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the determination of cadastral income. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a cadastral income law is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u189	In the New Slovenia Group we will not support the cadastral income mainly because it is actually Slovenian agriculture on its knees. The increase in cadastral income by 260 % in the area of forests and 150 % of the increase in cadastral income in the area of agricultural land in the face of all the natural disasters we have witnessed, whether these include flood glands, low buying-in prices of milk, low buying-in prices of meat, has actually put our farmers or forced them to kneel before all of this. The introduction of cadastral income in this way is unrealistic and I would just like to point out that for forests, the calculation of the growth coefficient is not realistic because it simply does not cover individual parcels, but goes to a wider area and there is a difference in the flora itself. In New Slovenia, we have not even received an answer as to who will answer and whose costs will be tested by the growth coefficient and who will answer if these differences occur. The catastrophe income at this time of increase is unreasonable and adds to the disadvantage or poverty of agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u190	Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group because the cadastral income is just some fictitious calculation of profits on a farm that is not actually there. You have also discussed the other parliamentary groups in the sense that it is a return, a return given by an agricultural land. In Slovenia we have about 80% of agricultural land in areas with limited agricultural activity. This is made, uncompetitively by foreign countries, foreign farmers. And there is no way on these lands that we can generate any income or profit that the state could then tax. Although there is no tax on catastrophe income, the calculation of a certain profit on land is as much as a farmer could produce, not as much as he produced. This cadastral income is simply added to the tax income or to the calculation of the income. In addition, subsidies granted by the State in order to be able to farm, so that it can at least hold on to the farm, are also considered as income and accrued from this income. Above all, this cadastral income is burdened by small farmers, half-farmers. We know that there is an average farm of 6.6 hectares of agricultural land in Austria, 15 hectares in Austria, and the Austrians care for the smaller ones to stay in the countryside, to cultivate the agricultural land in order to maintain this cultural landscape. It's the other way around. With us, however, we want to additionally burden these small farmers, or half a farmer. Of course, if these small farmers had real representatives in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, in the farmers' union and elsewhere, it certainly wouldn't have happened. However, because they are representatives of only large farmers and a plan of an obvious state to eliminate all small farmers and to glorify growing farmers who will never compete with farmers from other countries, this is an even greater harm. That is why we will not support this law, because it is socialist, we are the only country that has such a way of accounting for KD and then income. No one in Europe. Where there is no profit, there must be no tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u192	Mr Simon Zajc has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. In our client, we will support this law or we will vote that it is suitable for further consideration precisely because it does not burden small farmers. As many as 74% of farm households will pay exactly 0 euros in income from the cadastral income. Thus, this claim that small farmers must fear this law is misleading. The law is in line with all the provisions of this Act, that is to say with all representations of farmers to the extent that they also agree that the law is suitable for further consideration. Those things that are still unclear or that may still be disturbed are not the subject of this law at all, but are subject to other regulations and other laws. And even in these laws, there is already an intensive dialogue with all these organisations to come up with such solutions that we will all be satisfied, both by farmers and by the state. This law, which is now prepared, is fair, fair and promotes Slovenian agriculture. But once we have to ask ourselves, we're always talking about wanting flat-rate taxes, but now that we have it, it's just a socialist problem. We will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u194	Any other explanations on behalf of the Group of Members first? No, no, no. Mrs Vojka Shergan has an explanation for the vote on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u195	I will support this law myself, because it is mainly a technical law that somehow sets up a new methodology for determining this flat-rate taxation. And this has been preparing for a number of years. Farmers, all interested public, experts were involved. The law is well prepared and this tax will also be such that smaller farmers will not be harmed. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u196	A self-explanation of the voice, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u197	I don't know how much less tax will be collected if the cadastral income is at least 100% higher than it is now. Indeed, in 2017 it will be lower than it is now, the calculations will come to farmers in 2018, that is to say in the first half, a few months or a month before the elections, and it will be lower, and then in 2020 it will be at least twice as high on average. How will they pay less if KD is so much higher? It's not a problem in income, it's up to 200 euros that won't pay. The problem is that cadastral income affects the income of each individual, more than 12 laws and social benefits. We have calculated the case of one farmer who will be significantly more affected by social benefits, both in kindergarten and in children's allowance and in the scholarship of his children, because the cadastral income is added to his income. And here's the biggest problem. They're not going to get hurt here, they're going to get those big farmers, they're going to be those little half-breeds who spend their wages working the land. And they don't have any profits. The fact that this law is miscalculated and fair is why flat-rate taxation, if we need so much data to get to KD, will end up flat-rate taxation. Why, at a time when we have all possible records, we would not specifically charge for each plot whether it brings profit or loss. And here we're flat-rate: profit is and we're going to settle. That's not how it works. And consistent with the farmers themselves, as you claim, is by no means coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u198	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll vote against it. I will vote against it because I simply can no longer watch and monitor the solution, when, above all, rural areas and those very far away from Ljubljana, in particular Pomurje, we are always getting new and new burdens, but when it comes to providing money for regional development projects in Ljubljana, then there is no money. And this marriage, for the first time, the green lights didn't turn on the farm-land chamber. In some ways, however, this law is also grossly immoral; it is an immoral solution. The curve, so the calculation of the cadastral income, is first of all really swinging down, which is perhaps a short-term endorsement of this solution, and the problem is that then this curve is steeply raised, so I'm saying that the solution is not moral.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u200	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thanks again. We have tabled a law to give new impetus to co-management in Slovenia. All labour organisations operating on the ground are united that the constitutional right to co-ordination or co-decision is increasingly being exercised. There is also an increasing number of companies in which there are no working authorities and many workers' councils are no longer acting in the interest of the collective but, above all, acting as an extended term of office. As a result, the quality of working life in companies is lower, the standard of workers is lower, and businesses as a result do not achieve their economic potential, which is also evidenced by numerous research in this area. The law solves these problems by increasing, on the one hand, the protection of workers' representatives from dismissal and bullying by the management or employers, while also increasing the responsibility of workers' representatives to the collective itself, as well as by simplifying the recall process itself. However, the law does not change what is the basic concept of co-management in Slovenia, in which in fact the labour council ensures what the impact of the collective on the management of the company and the unions of those who establish solidarity between workers in all companies and in all sectors. The proposal was supported by all the working organisations on board, both the 7 trade centres and the Association of Workers' Councils. I hope to say that in this law, in fact, all theory and practice in this field is concentrated in Slovenia. Therefore, we do not deviate from insisting on this law, but we will support it, despite the fact that the government and the employers' organisation have actually decided to bully it in their own way. The government opposes the law because it has not been dealt with in the Economic and Social Council, which is just a blinding manoeuvre allowing the government to sit in two chairs, while devoting itself to economic democracy, as this coalition has also entered into a coalition contract and in practice asserting the interests of employers. However, management is the only group that fits it to have fewer and fewer co-decisions in practice. In short, there were possibilities. For three months, the Government of the Economic and Social Council was also at the disposal of this law. She didn't do it. When the trade unions did so on June 10th, the Economic and Social Council fell away because of the government. Last week, 17. In June, it was re-proposed, the Economic and Social Council fell away due to the lack of participation of employers. This, of course, only confirms that this law is going in the right direction, so we will, of course, support it in the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u202	Is there any explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Dr Jasna Murgel has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. Although we agree in the SMC Group that the Law on Cooperation in Management needs to be recast, we will not support this law because there has been no participation of one of the key stakeholders, i.e. employers in this process. The fact that they were made available after the claims of the United Left for three months is not enough. It is necessary to negotiate and, of course, negotiations are difficult. This is just a policy, here we need to get a consensus, at least try to give the opportunity, a real opportunity for employers to give their opinion. It is not essential that they finally agree with the proposals we make, but it is essential that we give them the opportunity to participate in this dialogue. And now let us ultimulate to offer three months and if we immediately disagree with our proposal or claim that this could not have been achieved, of course it is not serious and also raises the question whether it was actually the intention to negotiate the United Left in relation to these laws, or whether it was just a manoeuvre to collect pre-election points again. Indeed, negotiations and the possibility of employers participating in the formation of this law will need to be ensured. Because that wasn't the case, we're not going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u204	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, chairman. True, our proposal was not supported by employers or by attempts to talk briefly. For this reason, it is very quick to know that attempts to introduce labour co-management would very quickly show that employers as a productive part of society are short-lived. Otherwise, in my explanation of vote, I would like to try a human reason why we must take the path of economic democracy and labour co-ordination. See, at the beginning there was a basic human need, we can say anthropological need, the need for creation, after design and after cooperation. This need has begun to come true in European societies in the political field some 200 years ago with the beginnings of democracy, which have also led to a modern state and also to the fact that we Members are sitting in this Chamber today. But urban capitalist societies have this fundamental problem of stopping democracy from the factory door. And it is the right of people, the creative right of people to co-ordinate their working environment, that is the key right we attach to it in the United Nations. We're short on human rights. That is why we have also decided to introduce a law on the participation of workers in management. And if we look at it with a slightly broader perspective, we don't want a Bulgarian development model like the apologists of neoliberalism in this national council. The organic interest of employees through economic democracy would ensure that this does not happen. However, the step forward is, of course, full labour management. Well, then we're just one spit away from socialism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u206	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote is seven. 61 votes against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 61.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the second reading, the amendment at the assembly meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on the adaptation of the state border line to the water management of the ice stream. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u207	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the reasons for the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on the adaptation of the State border line due to the water management regime of the Ledava River. In the introduction, let me explain the reasons that led to the drafting of the bill. In accordance with the current International Treaty on the State Border, the State border between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary takes place at a six-kilometre section along the centre of the Ledava stream. In the past, this watercourse has often flooded and meandered between fields, thus altering the course of its stream. As a result, the watercourse in this section was regulated and surrounded between 1994 and 1998 by appropriate flood embankments. Due to this regulation of the Ledova River border stream, there was a situation at this section of the Slovenian-Hungarian state border where the border line is not now in nature running through the middle of the regulated stream, but a branch of the stream, partly on the embankments on both sides of the watercourse. Such a situation makes it difficult to access and process land at the state border and to keep the embankments on both sides on a regulated stream stream. At the meetings of the mixed Slovenian-Hungarian State Border Maintenance Commission, the initiative to change the flow of the national border at this section was considered immediately after the regulation and the water management regime of the Ledava River, in order to allow the state border to take place in the middle of the amended watercourse under regulation. Between 2001 and 2006, competent services in both countries developed technical and technical bases for the implementation of the adjustment of the State border line due to the water management regime of the stream. A proposal for a new state border flow at this section has been drawn up so that the state border runs through the middle of the new stream, bearing in mind that the number of Slovenian pieces of land is the same as the sum of Hungarian pieces of land that will pass from the territory of one neighbouring country to the territory of the other country in the event of a change in the course of the state border. The proposed amendment should be understood as a measure which is dictated by the situation in nature as an adaptation of the border line to the field conditions. This shall amend the border course without prejudice to one or the other Contracting Party. On 22 January 2016, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister for the Interior of Hungary signed the contract at Brdo pri Kranju. The Hungarian side has already completed the ratification process before its Parliament, which published the contract by law on 12 April 2016. On 9 May 2016, the Slovenian Government laid down a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty and forwarded it to the National Assembly. Following the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary on the adaptation of the State border line due to the water management regime of the Ledava River, the exchange of diplomatic notes between the countries will follow and the law will enter into force. The mixed Slovenian-Hungarian State Border Maintenance Commission will record the agreed amendment of the state border in the border documentation and ensure that the state border is properly marked with border signs in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u208	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 for whom there was a vote and no one opposed. [[68 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Hungary on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 of whom voted in favour and no one opposed. [[There were 72 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE ATHENS CONVENTION ON THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR MARRIAGE BY SEA FROM 1974 AND THE 2002 PROTOCOL TO THE ATHENS CONVENTION ON THE TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR CARRIAGE BY THE SEA FROM 1974. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The proposal to ratify the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea of 1974 and the Protocol of 2002 to this Convention fall within the group of international contracts concerning the general limitation of the carrier's liability for damage suffered by a passenger on board the ship. The carrier shall be liable for damage caused by the death or physical injury of a passenger resulting from a maritime accident and for damage caused by the loss or damage to the luggage if the accident causing the damage occurred during the carriage on purpose or because of the negligence of the carrier. The Convention also provides for the possibility of limiting the liability of the carrier, the actual carrier and the persons working for the carrier to claims for death, physical injury, loss and damage to cabin baggage and the loss and damage to vehicles, including all luggage loaded. The limitation of liability for those claims cannot be enforced if it is demonstrated that the damage is due to premeditation or gross negligence. The 2002 Protocol to the 1974 Athens Convention substantially amends the basic Convention and improves the liability of carriers and compensation for passengers in maritime transport and introduces compulsory insurance in favour of passengers not less than the current value of EUR 310 000 for passengers. However, States parties to the Protocol may also lay down a higher liability limit by means of national legislation. While the European Union has transposed most of the provisions of the Athens Convention as amended by the 2002 Protocol into the legal order of the European Union by Regulation 392/2009 on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea and in case of accidents, but as a result of the wider election, we have been invited by the EU Member States by the European Commission to accede to the 2002 Protocol as soon as possible, so I propose that the National Assembly adopt the Act ratifying the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea, 1974 and the 2002 Protocol to this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u210	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the assembly meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u211	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Members. International double taxation, which is due to the overlap between tax laws of different countries, is hampering international economic cooperation. Its creation is best prevented by the conclusion of bilateral conventions on the avoidance of double taxation, which are now a common way of international bargaining in this area. The Conventions remove tax barriers to trade and investment between countries which conclude the Convention and reduce the possibility of tax evasion. Currently, 57 double taxation conventions apply between Slovenia and other States Parties. Slovenia's negotiations for the conclusion of such conventions are based on a draft convention prepared on the basis of the OECD Model Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Misuses in respect of Income and Property Taxes. The views submitted by Slovenia to individual articles of the Model Convention shall also be taken into account. The Convention, which is ratified today, was signed in Astana on 10 March 2016. It was signed for Slovenia by Ambassador Primož Šeligo and for Kazakhstan by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bahit Sultanov. The Convention, through various mechanisms, allows for the elimination of double taxation, increases the security of taxpayers, prevents tax discrimination, allows the resolution of tax disputes, as well as the exchange of information for tax purposes and assistance in tax collection. We propose that the proposed ratification law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u212	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the assembly meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. At the time of the day, this is at the confirmation of the official clearance of the text of the Maritime Act and of the official revised text of the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and of the recording equipment in road transport. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the approval of the Officially Cleared Text of the Maritime Code be transferred to one of the next meetings of the Assembly. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on this procedural proposal and we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour, and none in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a postponement has been adopted. The National Assembly will approve the Officially Cleared Text of the Maritime Code at one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and at the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted three proposals to the National Assembly on the election to a judicial function, namely, to the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana and to the District Court in Ljubljana. In order to further explain the proposals, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mateja Končina Petrnell.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u213	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! For a long time, the Council of Justice has stressed that it is important for the quality of the judiciary to have quality new experts in the judiciary. Therefore, I am pleased to come before you today with three proposals for election to the judiciary. The first candidate is Ziva Gliha, born in 1976, who has been working for 14 years. We propose it in the election to the judicial function for the vacant seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. There is a need for human resources support in this section due to the large number of cases that are of fundamental importance to socially disadvantaged parties. The area of social law is a particular professional challenge because it is regulated by very different laws, which are subject to constant changes. For this reason, the Council of Justice has selected a colleague from 11 registered candidates who has been an expert worker for 9 years in this area. The judges with whom she cooperated assessed her work as being above average in all respects, with the explicit recommendation that the colleague, due to her rich experience and excellent knowledge in this area, should be able to begin with effective work immediately. The other two candidates are proposed to be elected in the judicial capacity of the two free seats of the District Judges in the District Court Investigation Department in Ljubljana. Let me explain that with the same invitation to tender there were 7 available court seats in the district court, 4 in the criminal department, 1 in the family and 2 in the investigative department. Among the 45 registered candidates, the Council of Justice has chosen four criminal judges and for one place in the family legal area, according to our assessment, the five best district judges reported. These were already appointed by the Council of Justice to the offices of the District Judges, and they had already begun their work a few days ago. In addition to these five judges, we have chosen a colleague for two of the investigative judges among the other candidates who have not yet been elected as judges. The first is a colleague of Carmen Erculj, born in 1971, graduated with an average score of 8.75, reached an average score of 9. She worked for five years as a professional associate, first in the District Court Investigation Department in Ljubljana and then in the District Attorney's Office. In 2003, she was elected District Attorney and in 2006 she was elected District Attorney. Its assessment of the prosecutor's office shows that it fulfils the conditions for faster progress. It therefore has 16 years of work experience and, according to the assessment of its colleagues, has great efficiency and quality of work. Also taking into account the debate of the Members at the meeting of the Commission on Elections, we insist that this is an excellent candidate who will enrich the work of the section of inquiry with rich prosecution experience. The second candidate is a mag. Gregor Cloone, born 1981. He graduated with an average score of 9.1 and reached an average score of 9.5 at the law exam. For two years he was employed as a professional associate at the Supreme Court in Ljubljana and then for six years at the civilian department of the Supreme Court, where all the judges of this department are assessed to be doing their work on an average of good. In his research work so far, he dealt mainly with procedural issues and, although he had gained experience mainly in the field of civil law, expressed his desire to start judicial work in the investigation department. As the need for knowledge from the civil and economic fields also shows the need for knowledge from the civil and economic fields in difficult criminal matters, and in particular in the procedures for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, we consider that the proposed candidate would be a valuable asset for the investigation department. All three candidates have also further convinced us, in their conversation with a confident performance and excellent answers, of their professionalism and commitment to the ethical principles of the judicial profession. We therefore propose their election to the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u214	The proposals were considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much for speaking to the President. Honourable representative of the Council of Justice, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of Article 130 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 28 of the Law on Courts and Article 18 of the Law on Judicial Service, the Council of the State has proposed to elect, as already stated, the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, Karmen Erčulj for the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana and Gregor Klun for the District Court of Justice in Ljubljana. The President of the National Assembly forwarded proposals pursuant to Article 41(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for consideration by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Article 130 of the Constitution provides that the Judges shall be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. In accordance with the provisions of Article 28 of the Judicial Service Act, the Council shall propose to the National Assembly candidates for election to judicial office. The same law in the second paragraph of Article 36 provides that a judge shall serve as a judge in the court for which he has run for office and in the judicial seat for which he has been elected or appointed, unless otherwise provided for in the law. The Law on Judicial Service in the second paragraph of Article 19 provides that the Council of the State shall propose to the Assembly for election for each vacant seat for which a judge, one candidate, is to be elected after the selection procedure and, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of this Law, shall be deemed to be appointed by election to the judicial office of the judge. The conditions for the election of a judge and the appointment of a judge shall be laid down in Article 7 of the Judicial Service Act. - Fourteen. The Commission considered the proposals at its 21st session. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The meeting was also attended by Dr Matthew Končina Petrnell, President of the Council of Justice, who further explained the proposal. The debate of the members and members of the Commission concerned a broader issue of the situation in the Slovenian judiciary. The aspects of appropriate organisation and the system of assessment of judicial work have been highlighted. With regard to candidate Karmen Erčulj, members of the opposition highlighted its past prosecution practice and public exposure to the social network and expressed doubts about its impartiality. The mandate-holders proposed to the Commission, in its decision, that the Council of Justice should carry out a proportionality test with regard to the impartiality of the candidate before the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which was not adopted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The representative of the Council of Justice rejected those allegations and stressed that the Council of Justice, when selecting candidates, decided on the basis of the criteria set out in the Judicial Service Act. As it is said, the Council of Justice has drawn up proposals on the basis of the provisions of Article 130 of the Constitution, the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service. When preparing the proposal, he took into account the conditions to be met by individual candidates. In accordance with Articles 7, 8 and 10 of the Law on Judicial Service and in accordance with the provisions of Article 19 of the same law, he proposed to the National Assembly for the Court of Justice a single candidate. On this basis, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 130 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 28, first paragraph, of the Law on Courts and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decisions be taken on the basis of which they are elected to the judicial function: Living Gliha to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, Karmen Erčulj to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana, Gregor Klun to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u216	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u217	Good-bye! There was a rather interesting and lively debate on the proposals of candidates for appointment to the judicial office on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We hear several debates about the bias of judges on the one hand or on the other, and I am counting on the fact that in some way it is awareness that, according to our normative basis, the parliament decides on impartial judges only when it decides to appoint a judge. In other words, if he appoints a foreign judge, this biased judge is likely to be biased. Therefore, the National Assembly, and in particular in its first function, the Mandate-Volution Commission, when appointed to the judicial function, must hold a thorough debate. We, representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party, have pointed out on the Mandate-Voluntary Commission a number of inconsistencies and biased practices in one of the candidates, and I am specifically talking about candidate Karmen Erčulj, who comes from the prosecution types. Article 37 of the Judicial Service Act states, and I quote, "The judge must always act in such a way as to protect the impartiality and independence of the trial." However, the practice of the prosecutor is quite the opposite. When former Minister of Culture Vasko Simoniti at a round table says one strong over the KPK, which is still being run by Justice Minister Klemenčič at that time, Mrs Karmen Erčulj begins his own proceedings against Mr Simoniti. When he first commends, he teaches the Ljubljana mayor at some point in May and then a column appears against the Ljubljana mayor, and on his own initiative after a criminal complaint, he himself begins proceedings against the author of the editorial in one of the magazines, and in the eve of the 2011 elections, thereby in some way demonstrates his bias. More. In that pursuit, in some way the application of article 133 of the verbal delinquent writes, quote: "The article is supposed to talk about alleged earnings, dealing with a meadow near the northern Ljubljana bypass, but in fact it is about spreading unrealistic, deplorable and insulting facts about the Ljubljana mayor." How does the D.A. know that? How, though, does he know that he is an editorial of an article or that in this case it is a matter of spreading untruthful, despicable, insulting facts about the Ljubljana mayor? Yeah, of course, because we read six months ago on her facebook profile. When we informed the President of the Council of Justice about this, she said that she did not know anything about these matters. However, when we asked her to carry out an impartial test in accordance with the internal acts of the judiciary, which also provided for a suspicion of impartiality in the candidates, she was willing to do so, but unfortunately the ruling coalition did not support it. Let me also point out that all these attempts to silence or the opposition or the media about expressing ugly words about the mayor of Ljubljana or anyone who may be a little bit more left-handed have reached an epilogue in court, as in the legal state of the sea. However, the question arises whether the National Assembly can support such a judge because the National Assembly has a role in this process only in the first phase, i.e. in the appointment phase, in this respect, if the National Assembly does this confirmation without this test of impartiality being carried out, the National Assembly will not perform this function, and it may happen that we will release another biased judge into the judicial system. Therefore, we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-21-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u218	We have concluded with a presentation of the Group's position and are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Ziva Gliha to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Karmen Erčulj to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour and 15 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Gregor Kłuna to the judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council for Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 50 for them and 1 for them. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The draft decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia for consideration. There is no application for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve Vice-President Peter Wilfan in the Committee on Foreign Policy and to appoint Mag as Vice-President. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on excise duty in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 14. 6. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the draft law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item as well as the 20th meeting of the National Assembly.
