ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič by 3 p.m., Anja Bah Žibert, Jelka Godec, Mag. Tanja Zink by 3 p.m., Vlasta Wait until 13 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Jan Škoberne, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 16:00 on, Marko Ferruga, mag. Matthew Tonin, Simon Zajc, Matjaž Hanžek by 5 p.m., Dr. Franz Trček by 17:00, Miha Kordiš, Jožef Horvat, Igor Zorčič from 12:15 p.m., Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 14:00 p.m. and Luka Mesec from 17:00 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Majo Makovec Brenčič, and other representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Thursday, 27 October 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Help's on the way. Is he all right now? I'm asking if he's working now? Okay. I repeat. We're voting. I think we're gonna have to vote again. Are we? I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll pick it up at 9.25.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue our adjourned session of the assembly! We're voting on the agenda. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day agenda, this is to discuss the work and the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Makovec Brenčič. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisc, for an additional explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Education, other ministers and secretaries of state, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! Allow me to explain in the introduction, on the basis of which we decided in the SDS Group to submit an interpretation of the work and responsibility of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič. First time. In the SDS Group, we believe that the Minister is responsible for not taking action and delaying the preparation of the amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which would follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of the number U-I-269/12-24 of 4 December 2014, by which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the Minister is responsible for violating the Constitution of Slovenia and for failing to comply with the Constitutional Court decision and thereby causing irreparable damage to the implementation of publicly applicable primary education programmes. Third time. We believe that the Minister is responsible for the conduct and abandonment of his duty as a competent minister, who is obliged to ensure and respect constitutional order in the area of the provision of compulsory basic education. Fourth time. We believe the Minister is responsible for creating inequalities before the law. Fifth. We believe that the Minister is responsible for the conduct and abandonment of the duties of the Minister responsible for education, science and sport in the exercise of a political function which results in a loss of confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and the social state. Therefore, Members and Members of the SDS Group suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, following a final discussion on the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the competent minister, adopt the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, give an untrustworthy statement to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to set out a few key concepts before the explanation, since in the debates so far, interpellations have shown that some of the problems with understanding concepts such as interpretation, the constitution, the relationship between individual branches of government. Interpellation is a term that is a parliamentary term for the constitutionally designated institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of a government or individual minister. With this institution, Parliament has an influence on the manner in which the executive power works. Parliament can ask formal questions in the interview, and the government or individual minister must answer the questions and justify his policy accordingly. The National Assembly shall then provide guidance for the continuation of work in the form of specially adopted decisions. Infringement of the constitutional order is certainly a valid reason and a reason for interpolation. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the highest general act by which the State prescribes general principles and forms of its political and social arrangements. The Constitution usually contains generally applicable principles and rules. If the Constitution is violated, ministers, how can we expect other citizens and citizens to respect the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court is an independent and autonomous State body that carries out a constitutional judgment. He is the highest body of the judiciary for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in our country, and he is also the guardian of constitutionality and legality. Decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be binding. Ministers shall be responsible for the positions and decisions of the Government and for the implementation of these decisions. Each Minister shall, in accordance with his/her policy, lead and represent the Ministry, be responsible for decisions in the management of the Ministry and for the suspension of the measures he/she should take. We have therefore decided not to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision on labour and the responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. 12. 2014 by which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the so-called ZOFVI is inconsistent with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court also found that the constitutionality established should be abolished within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal. This deadline has expired on 9 January of this year, so we are already 10 months late. In this interpretation, ministers could see a number of other things – illegal cooperation in the preparation of standstill supplements, the receipt of these illegal supplements; the non-implementation of certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in its department, in the first place the question of the enforcement of a decision on the concept of public service in the Higher Education Act; the delay in the necessary new Law on Sport, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Research Activities. It is also responsible for the issue of unimaginable completion of the study by the old system and the failure to prepare appropriate transitions from the old to the new Bologna model for students who have not completed the study in time. It is also responsible for confusion over school bazaars, adult education problems, and the apprenticeship system is being introduced too slowly. We could still list it. But what is more than non-execution, or even opposition to the Constitutional Court’s decision to have occurred to its branch, within the mandate of this government? It is likely, however, that we will discuss the responsibility of the acting or non-action of the Director-General at a meeting on the interpretation of the whole Government. The ruling SMC party, whose quota also comes from the Minister, has gained the favor of the electorate – if we leave behind the media machinery and support for justice – who has politically and unconstitutionally sent the opposition champion to prison, with a programme covering the following concepts: the rule of law, justice, transparency, ethics, morality. In non-execution and rejection of the Constitutional Court decision on the issue of publicly applicable primary education programmes, all these concepts fall. Just proof more that the government speaks one thing, but works the other way around. Moreover, the President of the Government is a lawyer, writes that he should be involved in writing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and is most responsible not only for his pre-election promises in the field of rule of law, but for the actual functioning of the Constitutional Order of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also the one who could order the Minister to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court within one year. How should we believe that a person who is supposed to be involved in writing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia 25 years later, when he is the highest representative of the executive branch, does not understand the very simple decision of the Constitutional Court if he could write the law himself at one weekend on the basis of a clear decision of the Constitutional Court? But maybe she changed in time after the ethics elections and had to be a man before the elections. We should leave it on the side of its flag, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected and respected. More. This Prime Minister of the Government is on a visit to the St. Stanislava in Shentvid entrusted the management and students with the position of SMC that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be implemented without delay. He said, "The Minister for Education has rushed to get the law adopted as soon as possible. The matter will be under public scrutiny and then it will go to Parliament. Our client will, of course, support her. In the government, I will try to reach agreement with the other two parties, perhaps even in the wider political space." If we say things with the right words, it is more than obvious that the President of the Government was lying six months ago. In addition, in the SDS Group, we are interested in how the President of the RS Government feels, as he also said on the same visit: "As the lawyer and the President of the Government, I am unhappy because we are late for the implementation of the constitutional decision." Dear Prime Minister, how long will you be unhappy? It is increasingly evident that the President of the Government, as the highest representative of the executive branch, does not respect or comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And since it's not required of the district secretary, it's his responsibility. What about the issue of responsibility in this government, however, is the weekly affairs of infringement of the Constitution, legislation and the establishment of a policy in the style of the previous system, which is dominated by corruption and clientism. In fact, they are increasingly holding to the words of the former President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Miroslav Mozetič, that politics has "simply delayed in the last two years by implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them." The President of the Government, because of his actions contrary to the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, is on a very good path towards a constitutional charge of violation of the Constitution and of laws committed in the management of his functions. The President of the Government is also the President of the SMC Party. At a meeting of the Council of this Party in April this year, i.e. for 15 months following the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Council of SMC adopted the following decision: "The SMC shall support the early implementation of the Constitutional Decision and shall be supplemented by the conditions for the adoption and implementation of programmes and the financing of school activities." But in practice, he doesn't listen to the spirit or hear about it. Although some draft amendments to this law are being translated after the Ministry of State, this law does not touch on this issue at least according to our data. The matter is becoming more and more clear. At the beginning of last year, the SDS Group proposed a new law that would implement a decision of the Constitutional Court 100 %. The Government’s reply at the time was that a systemic solution to the law was being prepared, including the Constitutional Court’s decision. By the deadline given by the Constitutional Court nothing had happened, so in the SDS Group we had again proposed a law to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision, but the coalition, which was intended to operate primarily with its programme of the rule of law, was once again against. Meanwhile, the same government went even a step away from the Constitutional Court’s decision, i.e. from the rule of law and respect for the Constitution. It proposed the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with a draft constitutional law in order to circumvent the Constitutional Court. This is the rule of law of this government. Let us leave this proposal to amend the Constitution of full-fledged nonsense, falsehoods and falsifications. But we know what the goal is – the abolition of private education in the Republic of Slovenia. To be ideologically and politically closer to countries like Venezuela, North Korea and Belarus. The proposed amendments to the Constitution seek to abolish the Constitutional Court's decision because they believe that less than 1% of private primary schools "severe the wide degree of consensus achieved". All this policy goes in the direction of those who claim that whoever controls the education system is in control of the country. One of the proposed laws being rejected by the SDS Group, which would follow a decision of the Constitutional Court and is also a red thread poorly prepared and obviously by the Education officials of the Ministry of Politically Defined Response to this Interpellation, is that an initiative to change the Constitution has been launched and therefore is being dealt with by the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished representatives of the coalition, President of the Government! Is the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly over the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and decisions of the Constitutional Court? If it is, where does it say it? Let me say to the Slovenian public that the Constitution is the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, although the representatives of the Government and the coalition are likely to try to convince us otherwise today. The decision of the Constitutional Court is clear – the amendment of the law in accordance with their decision within one year. The dictatorship of the current government and coalition knowingly violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Mr President, if anyone mentions today's debate on the constitutional committee's debate on the amendment of the Constitution in this area, I will always remind the President procedurally that the debater reminds him that he does not know the concept of the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also almost impossible for a person to believe that, during the explanations, both the government's response and the initiators to change the constitution read that five judges have decided. Your Honor, isn't 5 out of 9 the majority? Isn't this the same thing as most people in the National Assembly who outvote a minority? Because, for example, some law can be passed with a result of 40 to 39. Whose do you think she's gonna charge? Or perhaps an absurd case, if there were 46 Members in the Chamber, one would be in favour and the others would abstain. Whose will would it be? The will of the majority or those against? I'm asking you if today's score will be 45 to 30 for the coalition, whose title it will be. Are you going to say the opposition won? Clearly, mathematics is not a domestic matter for those who want to change the constitution. Just look at what the proposed amendments to the Constitution have written. "Therefore, we must not allow the poor and the bereaved, with an ever-increasing desire to provide a competitive environment for the public, to be deprived of their poverty and regret, and to be cynically accompanied by the idea that a new quality will be achieved." Welcome to abnormality. Dear Mr President, if anyone mentions a vote among the Constitutional Judges today during the debate, I will also give the President a procedural reminder that, firstly, due to poor mathematical knowledge, secondly, ignorance of the basics of democracy, and thirdly, ignorance of parliamentary democracy, where the majority decides. More. This trend towards the eradication of 1% of private schools is fueled by a petition Maintain public education. Sir, I need someone to explain to me how 1% can be dangerous for the other 99%. There's obviously someone with a poor knowledge of mathematical concepts again. If today, during the debate, anyone mentions conspiracy theories and fears as to how 1% of private education should destroy 99% of public primary education, I will also remind the President procedurally that the debater should be reminded by reason of poor mathematical knowledge, lies and intimidation, and not least by not knowing the decision of the Constitutional Court, international comparisons and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Certainly today we will also mention a similar decision by the Constitutional Court in 2001, but it is a matter of misleading and spreading lies and fears, because that initiative has been given to the whole sphere of private education, so not only primary education – once again, it is compulsory – but also secondary and higher education and higher education. That requirement was to finance everything, not only public programmes such as the current requirement, but also premises and equipment. In short, it's a huge difference. Sir, if anyone mentions today during the debate the fact that the 2001 ruling is the same, except that the members of the Constitutional Court have sat in a different composition, I will also remind the President procedurally that he reminds the debater that he does not know the decisions of the Constitutional Court which he discusses and, consequently, lies and deceives the Slovenian public. Neither does pronouncing the financial consequences of drinking water. It is a maximum of EUR 400,000 at the annual level, but a small price compared to spending money on a lot of stupidities you can afford. Not knowing that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and respected, even if you disagree with them. Especially if you promise the rule of law before the elections. Or will the perverse morals and ethics of this coalition, which imposed electives and electorates to take office again? Dear citizens and citizens, today will cost you nothing because we are paid equally if we survive in the National Assembly for a minute per month or 14 hours per day. Because we are the same paid ones who write laws and board meetings as those who are quiet and just press keys. Allow me two more sentences about schools. Whoever claims that primary school is free obviously doesn't have children and grandchildren. But according to our Constitution, primary school is compulsory. It is even sadder that we are talking about boundaries between private and public schools. We should talk about whether Slovenian schools are good or bad and what we should do to ensure that there will be no more bad schools, especially when private primary schools are added value to politicised public education and cannot be established just like that. They cannot be where there are already public primary schools because they have the Government, including the current ones, over the establishment of primary schools, through the General Education Council, which can, on the basis of conditions, approve or reject a programme for the establishment of a primary school. If anyone has a desire to set up a private school, he must invest in space and equipment. So get rid of the Ministry of Finance flies. The fear of new private schools should not be, but it is and is exclusively ideological. Honourable President of the Government, Minister and other SMC members, if you have a problem with even more left-wing parties in the coalition because of the failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions, please visit the SDS Group to find the best way to comply with this decision of the Constitutional Court. Together, we have enough votes to adopt an appropriate law, because this matter is not subject to a coalition contract, according to my opinion. Or you will again be hostages of the Social Democrats and Desus. Ladies and gentlemen, in their initiative, the instigators stressed that the controversial non-financing of the public part of the programme is not the financing of the learning and other content that parents pay specifically for the superstandard programme. Incentives also do not challenge the regime whereby private schools do not have the means to invest, investment and equipment, public funding from local community funds is not subject to this initiative. The comparison with European countries shows that private education in the Republic of Slovenia is very poorly developed. The Constitutional Court stated: "Statistical data show a strong predominance of public primary schools, as they also highlight both the initiators and the government. According to Eurostat data, 98.4% of all primary and secondary school students attended public schools in 2011 – the European average is 82% – and 0.9% attended a state-funded private school – the EU average is 10.2%). A survey of primary schools shows that in addition to the third initiator, two private operators or 0.7% of all performers are included." Dearly noted, the fact is that Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, was aware that by her conduct she violated the decision and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because she said that we needed a thought for it, which is better to take more time than little. The fact that the decision has not yet been implemented was also pointed out by the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in the consideration of the amendment of the ZOFVI by the SDS Group, when she warned her of her failure to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court. At the said meeting, the Minister replied, among other things, to the evidence regarding the failure to implement the decision and the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: "At the same time, you know that the Ministry has simultaneously prepared a proposal for amendments that concern not only the enforcement of the constitutional decision, but also the monitoring of quality standards." But this law is not heard of by the spirit. That the Minister was aware of or was aware of the fact that the solution to the decision should be to the ease found can also be derived from the Minister's public opinion when he said: "I am therefore in favour of co-existence and properly regulated funding according to a constitutional decision. We are obliged to ensure respect for the Constitutional Court's decision." The Minister of Education, Science and Sport is informed that she is responsible for violations of Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 14, Article 14, paragraph 2, Article 15, Article 22, Article 35, Article 41, Article 54, paragraph 1, and Article 57, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which took place after she has not drawn up a legal solution to remedy the unconstitutionality of the ZOFVI established by the Constitutional Court. As a result, there is a growing lack of confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and the social state. Z The Minister of Education, Science and Sport is responsible for the discrimination caused by the Constitutional Court in the area of the financing of compulsory primary education and thus for the irreparable consequences of the failure to do so in the new school year 2016/17 in the field of the implementation of compulsory primary education, which is ongoing, creating inequality before the law as a result of the violation of Article 57 of the Constitution. It has thus shown a carefree attitude towards the importance of the principle of equality and equal protection of rights, with particular harm to children who attend publicly applicable primary education programmes. Such conduct undermines the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its foundations. In addition to subjective responsibility, the Minister in the Slovenian Constitution is also responsible objectively. What did Dr. Miro Cerar say in 1998 about the minister’s objective and political responsibility? "It is undeniable that objective responsibility in the political sphere is indeed indispensable, because in the complex organisational framework of political institutions and in the context of the great political dynamics of modern society, it is often impossible to sufficiently identify all causal links and levels of possible criminal behaviour of different actors within the framework of state bodies and to impose political responsibility." On appointment, the Minister swore to respect the constitutional order, to follow her conscience and to work with all her power for the welfare of Slovenia. Once again, on her appointment, the minister swore to respect the constitutional order. According to the opinion of the interviewers on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, she is directly responsible or at least objectively and politically responsible for the conduct described. On the basis of the above and justified reasons, we consider that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport is not suitable for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport to perform her duties as Minister of Education, Science and Sport, so after the discussion we propose to the National Assembly that she be dismissed as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u4	You received the reply of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič to the interpretation 6. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I give the floor to Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members, Members, President of the Government, Colleagues, Ministers, Ministers! Interpellation investors against my work are trying to base their role on the obvious, narrowed down into five sets. I respond to them with a substantively related reply explaining the actual situation and inequitableness of the applicant's statements. The findings resulting from that interpolation are both entirely rejected and groundless at all points. In December 2014, the Constitutional Court decided by decision UI/269/12-24 that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public-based primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It decided that the constitutionality established by the National Assembly should be abolished within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has not taken its decision unanimously, but by five votes to four. One of the judges gave a firm separate opinion and two of the judges a separate opinion. The decision of the Constitutional Court also launched, inter alia, an initiative to amend the Constitution. With the first signature of Matjaž Han in February 2015, the Group of Members and Members tabled a proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA 347-VII, hereinafter referred to as the proposal. The proposal proposes to amend and supplement Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which would provide that basic education in public schools is financed by public funds and basic education in private schools can be co-financed on a limited scale, on conditions and at levels as provided for by law. Pursuant to this proposal, State funding for primary education would be explicitly applicable to public schools, while the financing arrangements for private primary schools would be left to the law. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution provides that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. The proposal states that the State of primary education would be obliged to finance under the Constitution in public primary schools, while the legislator would have the opportunity to regulate the financing of private primary schools in particular by law. It also wishes to eliminate the argument used by the Constitutional Court in its last decision when it considered that the second paragraph should be understood that the State is obliged to finance primary education in both public and private primary schools. The proposal is not intended to interfere in any way with the gap between public and private primary education. It should only specify that the primary concern of the State in the field of primary education is the provision of public school funding from public funds. The Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly launched a debate on a proposal for constitutional changes to limit the funding of private school programmes in May 2015. The Constitutional Commission also adopted a decision on the establishment of the Section, which was tasked with examining the proposal. The group has dealt with the proposal several times. In mid-January, this group submitted a new proposal to the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly for examination. According to it, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia instead of the phrase "Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funding," the phrase "Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funding to the extent that primary education is provided to everyone." A number of stakeholders responded to the decision of the Constitutional Court by means of expert discussions, such as the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, which prepared a seminar entitled Who is sent a quality public education. It discusses the consequences of the Constitutional Court decision on the financing of private primary schools. A workshop entitled Private education for common good in the publication of the Institute for Research and Evaluation of Education was also developed, with similar issues addressed by students of Slovenian Faculty of Law under VII. The Pythagoras' All-Slovenian law student competition. As the interpellationers point out, I should be reminded of the abolition of unconstitutionality on several occasions, including the amendment of the ZOFVI, the main solution of which is to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. In doing so, my responsibility should be reflected in the preparation of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with which it opposed the novel. However, let me point out that this opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not preclude the necessity of amending the law on the basis of a constitutional decision. It points out that other issues relating to the acquisition of the public validity of newly-established schools, such as the conditions of establishment, the acquisition of public power, monitoring and quality assurance, should also be addressed in the context of the issue of financing, all of which are mentioned in particular in the light of the current social changes. The opinion stresses that the proposal for a comprehensive solution to the private school issue is based on new social situations that have taken place in recent years, particularly recently. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore not based on avoiding the implementation of a constitutional decision. On the contrary, it is based on the belief that the situation of private schools should be regulated in a comprehensive manner, taking into account the different dimensions of this situation, with funding being only one element. Interpellators also cite my statements at individual meetings of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, answers to parliamentary questions, an interview at the Officer's Evening to prove that I was aware of the unconstitutional situation. I have never and never denied that I am well aware of the Constitutional Court's decision and that I am aware that it must be implemented. In doing so, I stressed that, with quality public and all inclusive education, it represents an additional selection, content richness and diversity of school space. Private education is based on Articles 54 and 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and was first regulated by law in 1996. The regulation of private education has also taken into account the provisions of the General Declaration on Human Rights, which ensures in Article 26 that parents have "the right to choose the type of education for their children" and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which further defines private schools in the Appendix to Article 29. In doing so, it is important to note that these provisions "are not to be interpreted as violating the right of individuals and bodies to establish and manage educational institutions." A similar definition is known by the Slovenian Constitution, which states in Article 54: "Parents have the right and duty to maintain, educate and raise their children. This right and duty may be withdrawn or restricted to parents only for reasons laid down by law for the protection of children's benefits." Article 57 of the Constitution states: "Education is free." The concept of the law of private schools based on these guidelines in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the General Declaration on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Slovenia is based on the understanding of private schools as schools rich in school space. The placement of private education and kindergartens was carried out by 1996 legislation by obtaining public financial support from kindergartens and private schools of 85% of the funds paid for salaries and material costs for pupils or students who have received public schools if they have obtained the public service of their programmes and have met certain other conditions related to the provision of conditions for the implementation of programmes such as space and equipment, as well as programme implementation such as the impact on the public network of schools, the minimum number of departments and so on. In practice, it has been shown that certain programmes, particularly those with special pedagogical principles, are difficult to provide such a minimum level of entry, leading to the amendment of the ZOFVI which deleted these conditions. The 1996 legislation also regulated the situation of private schools which existed in the field of Slovenia before the law was enacted. Following the adoption of the new legislation, a large number of private kindergartens, three primary schools and three secondary schools were newly established. Interpellators state that, by not eliminating the inequality found by the Constitutional Court in its decision, the resulting discrimination in the financing of compulsory primary education content, and thus the irreparable consequences, because even in the school year 2016/2017 in the field of the implementation of compulsory primary education, which is ongoing, creates inequality before the law as a result of a violation of Article 57 of the Constitution. That's not true. As I have already pointed out, private school funding was regulated by new school legislation in 1996. Until the decision of Constitutional Court No. U-I-269/12-24 of 4. 12. In 2014, such a provision seemed appropriate and appropriate. Finally, the Constitutional Court is also in its decision No. U-I-68/98, when assessing the constitutionality of Article 72 of the ZOVFI in 1998, stated that the legislator's decision to finance the state entirely only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution. The Constitutional Court gave the legislator a one-year deadline for the harmonisation of the law by Decision U-I-269/12-24. When parents enrolled their children in school, they were familiar with the legislation in force. Even if we may conclude that there is inequality, we cannot go beyond the fact that the decision of parents to enroll children in a private school is their own, that they have been made aware of the conditions of funding, and that, of course, they have been allowed to enroll in a public primary school. As has been stated several times, several elements need to be taken into account in the preparation of the marriage solution, not just the element of funding, because otherwise it would be very quick and also poorly thought out and, above all, an uncoordinated solution can foster inequalities before the law. Many of the social changes that have taken place in recent years have updated the issue of the relationship between public and private education. This is reflected in the increased interest in regulating this area, which is reflected mainly by international studies that have been made in the last ten years. Many of these are summarised in the OECD study 2012. It draws attention to changes in the social environment and to the many dimensions to be taken into account when analysing the area under consideration. In doing so, it points to the need to take into account the tradition and development of individual school systems, the various factors affecting the placement of private education in national education systems, as well as the definition of private education. It is a question of when a school is included in private terms, according to governance, according to the acquisition of public resources, according to ownership of premises and other factors. This study, as well as the OECD 2014 study, therefore deals with broader aspects and issues relating to the placement of private education, access to education, quality, the right to choose, comparability. Similar concerns are already highlighted by the authors of the chapter on private education in the 2011 White Paper on Education and Education. To regulate the education system in a way that ensures accessibility, quality and justice, we are finally committed to the recently adopted UNESCO Declaration Education 2030. All of these sources give rise to warnings regarding considerations after the comprehensive regulation of private education issues, particularly in the light of the social changes we face. All of this was pointed out in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which therefore proposed the rejection of the law proposed by the SDS Group of Members, since it considered that, for the above reasons, other elements relating to the functioning of newly established private schools, such as the adoption of programmes, the implementation and quality assurance, the entry into the register and the provision of personnel material conditions, should also be regulated. In doing so, we believe that private schools operating in the Republic of Slovenia, which have gained public validity, have demonstrated by their results that the educational work is carried out in a qualitative manner. However, a clearer regulation of those issues is needed in the event of new schools being established. The fact that such issues need to be addressed in a comprehensive and transparent manner is also evidenced by recent cases of neighbouring countries. On the basis of the above and the views presented, the Ministry, as I have explained on several occasions, including with the information itself on interpretation, has drawn up a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, taking into account the above-mentioned facts. On the e-democracy portal, the text was published on 15 April 2016. Many, including completely contradictory comments, suggestions, suggestions, reflections, and more than 30 just on the E-democracy portal, arrived at the E-democracy. They also show that the issues related to the regulation of private education are numerous and complex and not only related to the issue of financing. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which was submitted to public debate on 15 April, thus demonstrates the Ministry's clear intention to implement the constitutional decision. As I have written in my written reply, all further procedures that are within our competence, that is, the powers of the Ministry, continue. Thus, on the basis of the responses received and the responses received from the professional public, we have already completed the proposal for a text of amendments and have forwarded it to inter-departmental coordination and to awareness of coalitions. In view of all of this and given that the proceedings are proceeding in accordance with those arguments, I fully and firmly reject all impressions of the interpolation investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u6	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! On behalf of her, I would like to point out at the outset that the public education system is based on history and, as such, also recognized in Article 2 of the Constitution, which stipulates that Slovenia is a social state. This can, of course, be achieved within the framework of a network of services provided in the public interest by public institutions. The fact is that, in parallel with these different groups, based on economic, ideological or political interests, they establish a system that serves their individual objectives. Such a parallel world, as we can call it, has global support at the time of the brutal domination of neoliberal ideas – it undermines publicly and even strengthens itself publicly and financially. For example, with the hard-to-repar consequences of such a process, Slovenia is already faced in the field of health care and in the light of the experience of interest groups literally cracking down on the system, it would therefore expect greater caution on the part of all branches of government when they judge the border between private and public, as the consequences of this imbalance are ultimately felt primarily by people on their skin due to poor access to public services. This process was followed by five judges of the Constitutional Court, which decided at the end of 2014 that additional public-financial resources should be allocated to private education. It thus bypassed its past judgments and overlooked the many issues raised by such a requirement for a flat-rate equalisation of private to public, despite the above-mentioned need for extreme caution, since we have a very clear distinction between public and private. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we do not support the implementation of this decision by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Makovec Brenčič. We believe that the country is primarily responsible for ensuring the quality of public primary schools, and this view has recently benefited from the support of the Constitutional Court. As a result of the diametrically opposed opinion of the five Constitutional Judges, this represents a marked shift from legal thought. As such, it would require an in-depth argument, which the judgment does not contain, but also reduces the assessment of differences, the behaviour of the design of public and private, and the recognition of differences in the content offered. The judgment overlooks the extreme subjugation of the environment, which determines the functioning of private schools and influences the content and organizational diversity. Only on the basis of succinct arguments do we believe that it is possible to implement procedures for the equalisation of private with public, but this has not been done in this process, so in the Group of Social Democrats we have encouraged a political initiative that has increased both professional and public support for the amendment of the Constitution and the response to the various interpretations of the Constitutional Court regarding public and financial support for private education. It is also addressed by the Minister in the part of her reply, so we expect her to take a more active part in reshaping the content in a way that will clearly express the primary concern of the State for public education. Let us not forget that part of this is especially valuable, and these are also branch schools. The decision, which came through the judgment of five judges of the Constitutional Court, seeks to enforce the Slovenian Democratic Party with today's interpretation with various forms of pressure. In fact, this interpretation is understood and felt as an extension for the decommissioning of public education. We expect the Social Democrats to oppose all attempts to satisfy the appetites of private interests in the field of education and education. In addition to the private initiative on the whole vertical, which draws on the resources of both parents, children and the budgets of the state and local communities, the private interest penetrates all times of the pedagogical process. Therefore, he is also dismayed in some non-living but supposedly educational decisions of inspection services, such as school bazaars and school excursions. Respectable. The social democratic policy in education and education stems from the concept of knowledge as a public good, where everyone, irrespective of the social environment from which it comes, is given the opportunity to fully develop his abilities. In our belief and in the experience of comparable countries, this objective is more effectively and justly achieved within the framework of the public. The interpellationer, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, advocates the opposite concept, so in the Social Democrats' Group we will not support the content of the interpretation against the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, but, as we have indicated, we expect more decisive steps in the implementation of the coalition agreement, in particular the exercise of due care to achieve a quality and accessible public education in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u8	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. More than asking questions, will today's Minister of Education Maja Makovec Brenčič survive this interpretation – we knew this answer before the first word was said today – today's debate will answer the following question: Who in Slovenia defends quality lay and free education and who opposes or undermines it? In the United Left, we firmly and firmly defend the view that public education is the foundation of the social state and that only, if properly financed, can it exercise a fundamental social function, that is to allow equal opportunities for the development of all. Our public schools are quality, they are made by run-up teachers and teachers, but unfortunately, the idea of allowing equal opportunities is increasingly moving away, and the policies of the last governments are responsible. The key reasons are school cuts and missed school reforms. In recent years, budget resources have been steadily falling, making teachers work for more and more miserable payments, making them more despicable, even during junior school hours, and making schooling more expensive for parents. Interventions into the system, from the enforcement of a nine-year-old to the Bologna reform, have been reckless and often missed. It is not surprising that their social situation or the social situation of their families and the place from which children come are increasingly affected by the student’s educational success and potential in life. Children from urban areas are increasingly favoured by those from rural areas. We can no longer close our eyes to the link between learning success and the economic and social conditions in which children and young people live. The poorer they are, the worse their learning success and thus their chances in life. That's what all the research shows. Nor should we be blinded to the fact that education in Slovenia is free of charge. It's been a long time. Anyone who has children knows how high the cost of schooling is. Teachers, workbooks, schools in nature, school lunches. The coverage of these basic costs is difficult for many families in Slovenia. Some of these families, but not all of them, are assisted by charities such as Friday for smiles, Bohrst and the Union of Youth Friends. These organisations are carrying out an increasing number of tasks that should be performed by the State. Thus, in the 21st century, the social state transferred its tasks to humanitarian organisations and the constitutional rights of poor children were linked to the goodwill of volunteers and donors. A small step towards a truly free education will we hope to make in a short time when we adopt the law that we have proposed in the United Left, with which we will provide a warm meal to all poor children, today there are as many as 54,000 in Slovenia. For a warm meal enables the islands to stay longer in school, increase concentration, and therefore improve learning success. But this must be just the first step towards free public education. The path towards this goal and ideal, which is ultimately enshrined in our constitution, will be long and difficult. How hard it's gonna be, we've seen it on the first step. The government coalition opposed all possible arguments to free school lunches for the poor, but they were covering up one of the fundamentals. For schooling or even for hungry schoolchildren, it is obviously a waste of money. Of course, it was not a problem when you donated €60 million to 10% of the best paid by anti-social reform, which has long been the end of the rich crises and, on the other hand, for education, health care and employment of new teachers, it is obviously the harm of every euro. I am saying this because the question of what as a society we will give priority to and allocate money is also related to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the subject of today's interpretation. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment contrary to the views already taken on the same issue in the past, is now reading the Constitution suddenly as if it requires the same funding for public and private schools. Such an interpretation is a major threat to the foundations of Slovenian public education. The equalisation of public and private school funding means two. Firstly, less funds for the public school system and lower quality. Every euro we spend on private schools is less for public schools, but at the same time it means establishing parallel private education, which will be better than public education, because parents will pay it, and we will get one school system for privileged and one school system for everyone else. How it works, we already see in some countries of the world, the most decisive and clear in the United States. Secondly, public education is by definition intended to ensure the general public interest and private education follows only a partial public interest, while it incorporates a private interest. It can be a profit, and even more often it is an ideological interest or some non-universalist world-based pitching. We must not forget that the main advocates of the equalisation of school funding around the world are the religious community, with us the most decisive Roman Catholic Church. Interpellators require that these harmful changes, which will lead to even less money for public education and which may constitute a long-term preference for private education over public education, be implemented as soon as possible. This time they say that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and implemented immediately. Of course, the SDS did not forget that they had made a substantive difference in other decisions of the Constitutional Court when, for example, these decisions concerned the same-sex and broad-based equality or the arrangements for the financing of higher education adopted by the same Constitutional Court. We also believe in the United Left that changes are needed, but the changes that will bring the interpretation of our Constitution back to its spirit, i.e. to the spirit recorded that the foundation in Slovenia is a public, free and universal public education. Therefore, in the United Left, together with the SD, Desus and the Alliance, we have tabled a request for a change to the Constitution, which will again clearly separate public and private compulsory education. A change that would only require State funding for public primary schools, but not for private schools. The procedure for amending the Constitution is currently under consideration by the Constitutional Commission, where it stands because of the indecisiveness of the largest party of the government coalition – SMC. Finally, let us return to the original question: Who in Slovenia defends quality lay and free public education and who undermines it? Interpellators, i.e. SDS, certainly don't defend it. As we have heard in the proposaler's position, this party believes that universal public education is something that is supposed to be characteristic of countries such as Belarus and North Korea, but not one of the greatest achievements of enlightened civilisation and the condition of any society considered to be social and should provide at least the same opportunities, if not equality. It is no wonder, therefore, that this party is doing everything in this ideological blindness to break the foundations of the social state, including public education, health care and the social state. It's similar to New Slovenia. This party, although from slightly different ideological motives, and in particular due to its uncompromising defence of the interests of the private sector, advocates the commercialisation and privatisation of the social state, from public education to health care. Apparently, he also has a problem with the laxity of this school. The SD and Desus, together with the United Left, have submitted a request for a change to the Constitution, which would again clearly outline the gap between public and private education, but this would not mean anything if the Government in which these two parties participate will accept the amendment of the ZOFVI, which will do the opposite. This leads us to the answer we most expect. Which side will SMC and Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič stand? Among those who defend public education, or among those who place private appetites before the public interest? Among those who defend the social state as a fundamental achievement of 20. For centuries, is it among those who see it as a remnant of the totalitarian system, as they call it? Among those who want to provide equally accessible quality public education for all, or among those who advocate one school system for the rich and the other for the poor? These are the answers we are expecting from the Minister today. Will you and your party support a constitutional change that will be clearer – although, after our reading and after the previous readings of the Constitutional Court, this has already been clearly written enough today – to establish the boundaries of public and private education? If we get clear commitments on this, if you support us in the defense of public education, you can also expect our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u10	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Dear Mr President, distinguished ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia – we did not vote in favour of the appointment of Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Nevertheless, we have announced that we will support all the good proposals made by the Minister. It was obvious that Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič had a lot of experience in managerial functions, as well as a lot of knowledge in education and research. Political functions also require certain skills and kilometres, or political novelties may also be easy prey for more experienced cats, even from the coalition species themselves. We have a well-organized education in Slovenia, and we adapt our teachers, teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers, but we adapt our curricula, textbooks and programmes to the needs of time. We can say that the ministry, which should set the pace for the development of education, science and sport, unfortunately does not follow enough developments in these areas. This is increasingly reflected in the dissatisfaction of various groups who feel unheard or neglected. In our parliamentary group, disgruntled researchers who, despite the best references, barely survive and have to work on more projects at the same time. Young and highly educated people who have been trained at home and the country have also become quite few are going abroad, where they have more opportunities for research and advancement. The assistants of educators who do such noble and important work have publicly expressed their anger, earning only a little over the minimum wage. This is not dignified and unfair, but above all it is not normal. The teaching profession in primary and secondary schools is neglected and teachers have to deal with red tape instead of students and students. At the time of her appointment, we expected Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič to propose and implement systemic solutions in the field of higher education and science and to propose an appropriate law for these two areas as soon as possible. The economy expects this knowledge of armed youth who will be able to carry out increasingly challenging tasks. For the time being — after a year and a half of her ministry — we are talking only about a novel to be followed by a roofing law. We cannot and must not be satisfied with this. We expected the introduction of a dual system in the field of vocational education, since theoretical knowledge is less beneficial if we do not know how to translate it into practice. Above all, it is important that we educate for the professions that have the future and need the economy and society. The reality is that the coalition has already rejected three proposals from its SDS colleagues and has not yet been able to prepare its own. In Novi Slovenija, we were confident that the Minister, who belongs to a party with lawyers in the most important functions, would at least comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on 100% of the financing of the publicly applicable primary school programmes carried out by private schools. These schools are also attended by the children of our citizens, often from very large families, and by the children of our taxpayers, and they are also taught by our teachers, our citizens. The most important must be the quality of education and also the choice. We are surprised at the empty promises of the Minister and even the President of the Government. The decisions of the courts, including the constitutional ones, are obviously more binding for some and less binding for others. How can the Constitutional Court's decision be problematic in terms of the result? This Decision shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member In Novi Slovenija we believe that in this case the President of the Government should support the Minister with his authority in order to duly comply with the said decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and unfortunately we are waiting for this to happen. We expected that the coalition would no longer interfere with the adoption of the Decree on the University of Ljubljana for the implementation of teaching programmes at the Theological Faculty, which have been under way for years. Since we have already postponed the decision on the committee twice before, there is a feeling that in some of the left parties we would like to return to the totalitarian times when the Theological Faculty was expelled from the university, even though it was among its founders. Is this equality before the law for all? Unfortunately, the minister was unable to resolve this either. In addition to these outstanding tasks, it is also disputed for New Slovenia that funding for the implementation of international education and education programmes has been very quickly regulated by a specific law. There was no difficulty in regulating the financing of foreign education programmes, whether implemented by a national or a private school. On the other hand, there is no political will to regulate the financing of the publicly applicable primary school programmes for our citizens. Dear Madam Secretary! We must admit that you are open to dialogue. We see that you are a democratic woman, which we value in New Slovenia. Good intentions, wishes and plans must also be made by a good minister, not only to propose. If your coalition partners are hindering you from fulfilling your obligations and preventing you from complying with the Constitutional Court's decision, and the President of the Government has also let you down, I would offer you a resignation if I were you. We know that in the event of a constitutional decision being implemented, about EUR 330 000 a year is going on, which should not be a major asset to the state budget. Apparently, the pope's visits take place with a fig in his pocket. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u12	The text is given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not have a single position on the interpretation brought against Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so we will vote on it on our own conscience. However, allow me to present, on my own behalf and on behalf of colleague Alenka, the reasons why Members of the Interpellation Alliance will not be supported. First of all, I would like to remind today's interpolators that we have discussed at least three times in this mandate, in March 2015, December 2015 and April 2015. In these exposed cases, at the proposal of the same applicants, we have considered a proposal for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Why am I bringing this up? Every time, by some minor amendments or additions, we have considered the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision relating to Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. As a candidate several times, at least in these three cases and in addition to the interpretation, the Constitutional Court points out that the Constitutional Court requires the National Assembly, within one year of the publication of the decision, to remove the finding of non-compliance with the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to the financing of publicly applicable programmes in private schools. As you know, the Constitutional Court of December 2014 adopted a decision establishing that the financing of publicly applicable primary education programmes in private schools is inconsistent with the Constitution. Since the decisions of the courts have to be respected, the SDS Group has tabled three amendments to the law for its implementation in March 2015, December 2015 and April this year for adoption by the National Assembly. Members of the Alliance also believe that it is not irrelevant that the SDS party first tabled the proposal on 24 February 2015 or exactly six days after the SD, Desus, the United Left and the Alliance Group tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution, with which we want to place a clear border between public and private education. The proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution in order to finance basic education in public schools through public funds, while basic education in private schools can be co-financed to a limited extent, under conditions and at a level as provided for by law, was tabled in February 2015. State funding for primary education would be explicitly applicable to public schools and private primary school funding arrangements would be left to the law. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, which is the subject of a stumbling block, is "Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds", and the Constitutional Court did not decide for the first time in 2014. The provisions of the Constitution have been decided twice by the Constitutional Court and this time they have been spoken differently for the first time. The last decision, however, totally contradicts the previous decision of 2001, when the Constitutional Court defined itself until the provision of a public education and education service and stated to what extent the State is obliged to finance the public network and compulsory primary education programmes. The Constitutional Judges wrote, inter alia: "The idea that parents are children who send children to private schools and have to pay tuition is unequal compared to those whose children attend public schools, but is not justified in terms of the Constitution. The legislator's decision to finance the state in its entirety only public schools where all parents can enroll their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution." This means that the Constitution does not order the compulsory financing of private education and that the Constitutional Court, by a final decision, has supplemented the text of Article 57 of the Constitution, which is solely within the competence of the National Assembly as a founder. Let me mention that in her separate opinion, Judge Etelka Korpič – Horvat also stated that compulsory primary education means that parents are obliged to ensure that their children attend a publicly valid primary school programme. That obligation of parents corresponds to the duty of the State to organise primary education in a way that will enable parents to fulfil the obligation that all their children must be included in a publicly applicable primary school programme. It follows that the right to primary education for children would be abused only if they could not be enrolled in one of the primary schools in the public network of primary schools. In the present decision of the Constitutional Court, it is surprising that the 2014 decision is contrary to the understanding of compulsory and free basic education in relation to public financing in other European countries. For there the Constitutional Courts do not enforce a decision in the direction that they must be equally financed by both public and private schools. There is also no international comparison of the constitutional interpretations of similar constitutional provisions in explanation of the decision of the Slovenian Constitutional Court. Such interpretations, as provided by the Slovenian Constitutional Court, are not found in the interpretations of those international human rights instruments, which state as a duty that education must at least be compulsory and free of charge at the basic level. The concept of Slovenian education is based on the predominant understanding of the relationship between public and private education in terms of education as a public good, accessible to all. This is especially true of primary education. It is also based on the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights, which unequivocally states that States, as regards rights guaranteed by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, are not obliged to establish or finance private schools. Nevertheless, Slovenia, as well as most other countries, is funding public programmes implemented by private schools, up to 85% of their value. However, 100 % of public and private schools with concessions are funded. In the Alliance, we do not oppose the mentioned scope of funding for private primary schools that implement a publicly valid educational programme, as they enrich the school space with different pedagogy or allow parents to train their children in institutions with the same global view that they are raising their children. However, we do not agree that the latter should impoverish the network of public primary schools. Private schools can therefore, in our opinion, be co-financed to a limited extent in the manner prescribed by the law. We believe that the National Assembly, as the founder, has the right to maintain in the Constitution the fundamental values of this company, which it has already written down in 1991, namely that the primary concern of the State in the field of primary education is the provision of public school funding from public funds. We are confident that, by supplementing the Constitution, we will only achieve that public education in the Constitution in the manner that this provision has been interpreted by the Constitutional Court in 2001, will be enshrined as a value and will thus become the only form of primary education that has such legal protection. However, if parents prefer to choose private schools where they have to settle fees or part of the costs of such schooling, this is their free decision. Parents ’ right to choose private schools for their children is a negative right. This means that the state cannot and cannot prevent them from choosing them if they so wish. Contrary to this, it is the duty of the State to give an individual the opportunity to exercise a right and the State must also fulfil it. We believe that there is an important difference between public and private primary schools. Public schools accept and have to accept all students and students, and individual private schools are intended for some, and so students and students of all those who want to enroll can choose for themselves. We can rightly ask ourselves whether this time the Constitutional Court overstepped the limits of its powers and assumed the role of legislator, which only violated the constitutional principle of the division of power. We must be aware that the decision of the Constitutional Court and such interpretation of the Constitution will certainly lead to the adaptation of education in Slovenia, which will significantly change and interfere with the delimitation of public and private, so it is important and urgent to regulate the situation of private schools when amending the legislation in question. Here I cannot pass 2007 when the then government tabled a proposal for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education with a view to equalising the public co-financing of private schools with the financing of public schools. The government, which was not successful with the proposal, then referred to the White Paper. Following the failed consideration of the draft law in the National Assembly, a group of members of government parties submitted a constitutional assessment of the article on public co-financing of private schools. The government has supported the request of Members and at the same time has written down that it has tried to eliminate its unconstitutionality by means of its proposal for amendments to the law. This government claim was surprising because there was no talk in the proposal for amendments to the law or the material it prepared. We can therefore conclude that if the proposed amendments to the law were in fact based on the view that changes were necessary because of unconstitutionality, they would most likely be used in an argument to amend the legislation. In this way, the unconstitutionality as an argument for amending the law was highlighted later, after the amendment of the law had failed. Did the then ruling policy, or part of it, use the Constitutional Court as a means to achieve those legislative changes that could not be enforced in the ordinary legislative procedure? What is especially surprising to us with colleague Alenka is that this decision of the Constitutional Court is being dealt with precisely. Interpellators themselves do not treat all judicial or constitutional decisions equally. Here we would point out the case of solving the problem of the deleted, where the Constitutional Court has ruled twice on the infringements, for the first time in 1999 and for the second time in 2006. In addition, violations of international human rights obligations have been raised by the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and finally the European Court of Human Rights. Despite all the findings, including the rulings of the SDS party, we have therefore not interpreted any of our ministers. Both governments led by the SDS from 2004 to 2008 and from 2012 to 2013 did not solve the problem. This is in view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has decided twice on the financing of primary schools and has taken two conflicting decisions, whose implementation requires a comprehensive resolution of the problem, of course, somewhat unusual. As already announced in the introduction and also extensively explained, Members of the Alliance of Interpellation will not be supported. The way in which the decision of the Constitutional Court, announced by the Minister, is to introduce the conditions to be met by schools in order to be financed from public funds, seems appropriate to us so far. Finally, we will speak on the proposal within the legislative process itself. The level of funding of public and private schools which have acquired the public validity of the programme and which obtain 100 % of public funding for the implementation of the compulsory part of the programme is consistent with the proposal of the Section acting under the Constitutional Commission, namely that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funding to the extent that primary education is provided to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u14	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Respectable both the Presidents, the Minister, colleagues from the Government and, of course, colleagues, Members and Members! Knowledge is the fundamental wealth of each of us, it's our personal ticket to the world of life. Good education, providing knowledge in a right and rich way, so it is not only a key to its own development and success, but rather to civilization's progress. The decision to study is a matter and a responsibility for each individual and at the same time the task of a socially responsible country. The latter is intended to ensure that it is equally accessible to all, irrespective of gender, regardless of race, and in particular regardless of the property status of the children's parents. The country is also clearly showing its own attitude towards intellectual development through its relationship to knowledge concerns. In both the party and the SMC Group, education is set up and understood as the centre of development and future policies. Primary education in this respect has had a particularly important weight in our country since its beginning, and it is the same. Quality, accessible to all and to all is a prerequisite for all further educational steps by every young Slovenian and Slovenian. So much for the intro. Now it's politics. Interpellation first. At the end of 2014, the Constitutional Court held that children have the right to visit the public programme free of charge, regardless of whether it is exercised by a public legal entity or by a private legal entity. In accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, it has in fact been established that the State of education programmes carried out by private schools without concession must be financed to the same extent as the financing of educational programmes included in the public school network. That mandatory minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content for all primary schools across the country, does not include the financing of additional content offered by private schools in their so-called extended programmes and is strongly attached to values if you want, including the ideological orientations of these schools. At this point, allow me to make it clear and loudly once again that it is our fundamental commitment and responsibility to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is not about what we like or what we do not like, but about democratic responsibility for acting in accordance with the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the division of power. In fact, from the point of view of the distinction between public and private education in the SMC, what have we been advocating all this time, although some of us are less appropriately trying to label things that we do not understand, that we want to stall them or even block them? We advocate a clear distinction between public and private implementation of educational activities, where it must be publicly understood as the interest and responsibility of the State, and a private complement thereof, which guarantees the right to choose anyone who wishes to do so, but not on the State's account and responsibility. That's what the leadership in the constitution requires of us. This gives rise to the concept of private school law, the content of the General Declaration on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Such assumptions are based on understanding private schools as schools that are rich in school space and thus on the basic responsibility of a country that cannot or does not want to be afforded by everyone anymore. In this relationship, private schools are rich in public offerings to students, and I hope that they not only allow their parents greater choice and, crucially, they are complementary, but not restricting or disrupting public school networks, but ideally encouraging them to achieve even higher quality and adaptability to new content of the future. In short, the task of the State is to protect the public network of schools, which will allow all children equal access to knowledge, while at the same time those who want and can do more and otherwise will not be prevented from doing so, but will ensure that all that it can do to ensure that this diversity supports this "need". Please, it's not going far and it can't just be about financial support. What kind of a private institution is it, if its work and existence are fully supported by the state with its public money? There's nothing different than public. Today’s interpolation is, after all, an excellent opportunity for us to look at the political mirrors of our own and shared action. The review of the interpretations so far shows that you are applicants, i.e. colleagues from the SDS, in some ways possess the prestige of investing interpretations against school ministers, since today's 4th is in line to confirm this. But we would have more confidence in this time in the sincere purpose of the proposalr if you yourself, at a time when you led this country and took responsibility for the welfare of citizens and citizens, for our fundamental rights and freedoms, were to comply regularly and in particular with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We would believe much more in today's interpolation if, at the time of the mandates when you led the country, we put in legislative procedures in due time proposals for laws to eliminate the contra-constitutions found. I would trust your intentions if you didn't shut up yourself, perhaps even forget that it was your ministers who were being intertwined for disrespecting and failing to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, to which the Legislative and Legal Service also warned you during the legislative proceedings in addition to the policy. We would have much more faith if your ministers had not made statements in relation to everything I have just highlighted, such as your former Minister of Education, Dr. Žiga Turk, who said, "This is not the first or final decision of the Constitutional Court, which has not been respected and the Minister's interpretation of this is an exception to the rule." We would believe much more if we did not meddle with former ministers who were trying to implement not only the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but also the European Court of Human Rights. We would believe much more if it were not for individual social groups to show a disregard for the decisions of the courts a carefree attitude towards the importance of the principles of equality – I am talking about deleted and same-sex if one did not understand. Interpellation is also a mirror, from the point of view of the coalition groups of Members, which, as a responsible part of the legislative branch of power, we must also set up for ourselves and our own Government, in order to lay down accounts on what it has done, how well it has done and what it will do. By drawing attention to these political mirrors, we do not in any way reduce the responsibility of this government and this Minister of Education, Science and Sport to follow the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014, but let us discuss the facts that we love in the SMC first. Firstly, the proposal for a law complying with the Constitutional Decree was submitted to a public debate in April 2016. Secondly, just a number of comments received at the time of the public debate show that several elements and not just funding should be taken into account when regulating this issue, as a quick and incomplete solution could foster inequalities before the law. Thirdly, the bill is already in intersectoral coordination. Fourthly, the fact is that the bill makes private schools much clearer in public school in the way it has already been set up, so that they are richer and more substantively complemented. Let me add the last significant fact that it is this government and its ministers that have already fulfilled a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court in the first half of their term of office, which have resolved the constitutionalities established in the past, which have long since exceeded the deadlines for the abolition of the Constitution. We are, of course, responsible parliamentarians, compared to someone else, we have also confirmed such laws, even though all of them, including the stumbling block of today's interpretation, are nothing to blame and owe nothing to you old political cats, some of the left ones, some of the right ones, but not many of them together. These are the facts that will also be exposed to today's debate. Finally, allow me to cite some of the broader educational achievements of the SMC government's mandate. You, respected citizens and citizens, especially schoolchildren, students, teachers, teachers, researchers, parents and everyone who cares about the knowledge of Slovenian people, will decide for yourself who does what and how in politics does what and for your knowledge. According to one of the OECD's major education chambers, Slovenia is in the upper half of the countries following the inclusion of three- and four-year-olds in preschool education. We maintain a high proportion, more than 90%, of young people aged 15-19, who are involved in educational processes. Half of the young people are enrolled in vocational-oriented education, which represents the second highest share among the countries analysed and is twice the OECD average. The proportion of adults with higher- and higher education between 25 and 64 years increases and is the same as in 2014. The proportion of women with higher education is higher than that of men and is above the average of the European Union. The proportion of adults aged between 25 and 40 with tertiary education has also increased. Slovenia is also one of the countries with a high proportion of those with education II. the levels or equivalent. The inclusion of adults in lifelong learning was 13.3% in 2015 and is above the EU average and, most importantly, has not decreased in the crisis. Providing support for the knowledge of highly educated citizens and citizens and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all remains the priority of the Modern Centre Party, this government and this Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Let me list just a few more implemented and for the second half of the mandate of the already outlined measures, which further attach to all this. In the school year 2016/2017, all other students will learn a foreign language. After years of silence, a systematic and sustainable model for the restoration of teaching funds is being developed, which will be renewed in 2017 at all levels of primary education. A new concept of national knowledge verification will enter into force in the new school year. In order to empower teachers, a number of activities are being carried out to promote the use of new teaching strategies and forms of work. Slovenia has joined the initiation of apprenticeships, whose implementation is just before the apprentices. The novela of higher education law provides undeniable benefits for higher education policy and its stakeholders. After several years, we have managed to provide a 5% higher budget for science. More – 5.6% – integrated funding for higher education, which has declined most in recent years. Negotiations for Slovenia's membership in Cern are successfully concluded, which will have positive effects both on research activities and on the entire education system and economy. This situation must be preserved and upgraded for the common public good. Knowledge is publically good. Our support for this is undeniable. Have you noticed that in the top of all this data there is no mention of a valuable positive assessment of the achievements of our primary education? The break in the success of generations of statistics is recorded in the middle of two thousand. At a time when they also record the average growth of above-average successful students, they cannot compete with peers from abroad because they are much worse. Here's the main problem. The problem, which is of a systemic nature and which is indeed calling for comprehensive consideration, including why since the establishment of nine-year primary education in our country, none of the ministers, from the Minister Gabra further established this system of nine-year-olds, have shown no intention of fully evaluating the primary education and achievement system. We are talking about the same period when solutions in public-private relations have systematically begun to be adopted, which we are also talking about today. Perhaps the answer to today's interpretation question could be hidden here. I hope I've given you some extra material to think about. Now it's time to give my colleagues and colleagues a few minutes. That's why I'm just concluding. The vote of the SMC Group is an open, creative voice, due to the rich knowledge of confident and solidarity youth and society. Our vote is for achieving high educational and research achievements and is for a clear distinction between public and private education and educational activities, where public education is the interest and concern of the State, and for a private complement to public, an additional right of choice, which, at its own will and financial ability, can be further guaranteed by everyone, not by national choice. We know and trust that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Prof. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič is pursuing this with his work. Therefore, the reasons for its replacement, especially with such a past political pedigree as you have in this area, are not clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We live in a country where a government that does not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court does not respect the decisions of the courts, where the ministries do not respect the laws and where those who do or do some damage are not punished, but those who warn of it. And I will only stop at a case where the Constitutional Court's decision is consciously disregarded, which is also evident by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. What we are reading is also evident from the previous President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Mozetič, who, at the presentation of the 2015 Constitutional Court's Labour Report, warned that the policy has delayed the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions over the past two years because it disagreed with them. He also pointed out that this is very problematic from the point of view of the rule of law, especially if non-implementation is conditioned politically and ideologically. During the decisions of the Constitutional Court, he specifically mentioned the case that a decision on the financing of private primary schools had not yet been implemented. Thus, at the end of this year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at the initiative of parents of compulsory schoolchildren attending a private primary school, in its constitutional assessment procedure on 4 December 2014, found that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Why the unconstitutionality of the law? In the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 1, of the Act, which provides only 85% of the funding provided by the State for the implementation of these programmes to private schools carrying out publicly applicable educational programmes, the proponents who submitted a constitutional assessment to the Constitutional Court challenged this first sentence of Article 86. The Constitutional Court has therefore found that this is discriminatory for children in private schools. Parents who attend private primary schools must pay 15% for the programme, which is about €60 a month. This amount paid by parents in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014, should no longer be paid as of January this year. I would like to point out that we should not be paying any more since January of this year. In response to our interpretation, the Minister points out that the decision of parents to enroll children in private school is their own decision and that parents were aware of the conditions of funding when they enter. Dear Minister, that's not true. That's not true. In view of the decision of the 2015 Constitutional Court, parents believed that legislation would change and, consequently, a way of financing. They believed that they lived in a country of law, but unfortunately they were wrong. The position of compulsory pupils in private schools is comparable to that of compulsory pupils in public schools. Therefore, the unequal provision of public funds is a violation of the principle of equality before the law, as found by the Constitutional Court. "Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds, regardless of whether it is carried out by a public legal entity or by a private body," the Constitutional Court also wrote in its decision. That the matter is even more bizarre, private schools established before 1996 are financed at 100% and private schools established after 1996 only at 85%. Statistics show a strong predominance of public primary schools. According to Eurostat data, in the Republic of Slovenia, 98.4% of all primary and secondary school students attended public schools were on average 82% in 2011. 0.9% of the co-financed private school, the European average is 10.2%. Only 0.7% of students attended independent private schools and the European average is 2.9%. Claiming that funding for private primary school programmes will be a public threat to anything is therefore, to say the least, ridiculous. Funding primary education from public funds means that this funding must be provided by the organisation of an appropriate network of primary schools and the functioning of primary education. The content of the compulsory public-level primary education programme funded by public funding is uniformly established for all primary education providers. This stems from the pursuit of the same objectives of education and education, equivalent educational standards, equal conditions for professional workers, space, equipment, equal use of textbooks for compulsory subjects and, last but not least, for equal pay limits. The content differences in the principles under which private or public schools operate only show up in extended education programmes that are not financed by public funds. Different segments of funding need to be separated, the real implementation of programmes, running costs and investments. It is high time to admit that private schools are much cheaper for the country than public schools. In this case, the State does not have to worry about all the running costs and investments that are on the private's shoulders in this case. Let me point out once again that the initiators to the Constitutional Court have not submitted a request for an assessment of Article 86, paragraph 2, under which private schools do not have investment funds, investment maintenance and equipment, but have submitted an application for the implementation of programmes. The Constitution provides that a compulsory minimum of basic education is publicly financed, which is uniformly determined by content, but does not cover additional content that depends on the value of the individual primary education providers. In its reply to the Minister's interpretation, the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution stipulates that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. That is true, Your Honor, and I fully agree with that. In view of the above, students attending private schools and their families should also benefit from the same financial benefits that are available to students of public schools and their families. But Minister, why don't you make a move and change the law in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision? You don't do anything at our discretion, and you're just waiting. You're waiting as our patients are waiting in line in our health system, I'm sorry. The Ministry's task should be primarily focused on the quality of schools. Healthy competition can only produce higher quality on both sides. Yes, you are right, Minister, when you say in your response to interpretation that our educational system must be accessible, quality and fair. You are also right in your statements that private schools have proved, with their results, that they are doing their work of quality. But why, then, do you point out that a clearer arrangement is needed in cases of new private schools? Why is it clearer? What's not to understand here? The results showed that private education provides good and quality education. The fundamental right to free choice of education must also be ensured, which means that the right of parents to provide education and education is respected in accordance with their own beliefs. With regard to the Constitutional Court's decision, the Constitutional Commission also met in the National Assembly and discussed at its meeting on 10 March this year a proposal for constitutional changes on the way in which private education is financed, but this meeting was suspended due to significant divisions between the parliamentary groups and, of course, the expertise. The Minister also states in her reply that a number of interested stakeholders and experts have responded to the Constitutional Court's decision to discuss the consequences of the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of private primary schools. I'm once again wondering what's here to discuss. The decision was issued and the point was made. It must be respected, not debated. There is no doubt that we cannot go beyond the fact that the country is primarily concerned with financing, but with ideology. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned the Minister about the abolition of the above-mentioned unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court decision. We have also warned her that this decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected, but our warning has always been rejected. At the 11th urgent meeting of the Education Committee on 6 May last year, where the Minister presented herself as a candidate for Minister, she replied to the question of a fellow Member regarding the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision: "Of course, the decision has been made. If I understand correctly, it is necessary to prepare a way and implementation by the end of the year." By the end of 2051, it was long overdue, it will be the end of 2016 and in our Group we ask the Minister where this change is now. Later, on November 27th, last year, the minister of the media said, "Of course, we need serious thought, for which it is better to take more time than not." I'm wondering again what kind of thinking this is. The decision of the Constitutional Court is clear, there is no need to think here. Once again, you know exactly what to do. In the case of two proposals for amendments to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education by the Slovenian Democratic Party, first in December 2015 and then in March 2016, the Minister of Government proposed to adopt an opinion stating that a legal solution to remedy the constitutional Court's finding of non-constitutionality was not appropriate for further consideration. The fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court has not yet been implemented has also been pointed out by the President of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, at the time when we considered the amendment of the Organization and Financing Act, which was on 1 June of this year. I will quote the statement or statement by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as legislator, must implement this decision as soon as possible, because otherwise it violates the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. Decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be binding, binding. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must do so in due time," I repeat, in good time, "implete". At the meeting, the Minister replied: "This is where I fully agree with the Legislative and Legal Service, because there is really no constitutional decision to comply with this proposal." This was on 1 June 2016. As we can see, the minister is just evasive. Once it points out that a change is needed, then that serious reflection is needed, and not least that there is a need for greater understanding. I do not know what needs to be understood in all of this and what to think more broadly, but if the Constitutional Court has said exactly what needs to be done without further reflection. The statement of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar at the visit of the Institute of St. Stanislav on 19 April this year was equally unreasonable. On this visit, the President of the Government said: "As a lawyer and President of the Government, I am unhappy because we are late for the implementation of the constitutional decision. I'm trying to get it done as soon as possible." Yes, the distinguished president — well, he is no longer here — is unhappy too are the parents of these compulsory children who attend private schools and still have to pay part of this tuition. Private schools are also unhappy because they do not receive 100 per cent of government funding. In an interview with the Minister for the evening of 3 September this year, she said: "I am therefore in favour of co-operation and adequate funding according to a constitutional decision. We are obliged to ensure respect for the Constitutional Court's decision." What co-existence again and adequately regulated funding under the Constitutional Decision, but where there is still no need to amend this law? Once again, the minister is running away, gaining time, but for the parents of children who attend private schools, it is also very valuable, especially for their pockets. Because of all the above, we believe that the Minister is both subjective and objectively responsible because she has done nothing. It is subject to its responsibility because, in the light of its powers and tasks as Minister, it did not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. It is also responsible under the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister shall, in accordance with the policy adopted, lead and represent the Ministry, provide political guidance for the work of the Ministry and its bodies and carry out other tasks laid down in the law and other regulations. We are proposing that Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič is responsible for the non-constitutional functioning, according to the failure to implement the Constitutional Court decision of 9 January 2011, which was then in force. The Minister is also aware of what she has acknowledged or confirmed in an interview for the evening newspaper when she said: "We are obliged to ensure respect for the Constitutional Court's decision." Where is this duty that the secretary referred to for the paper again? In addition to subjective responsibility, the Minister in the Slovenian Constitution responds objectively, since each Minister is responsible for the work of his ministry. At the time of her appointment, the Minister swore to respect the constitutional order, to follow her conscience and to work with all her strength for the welfare of Slovenia, but we regret that the Minister is still allowing for further unconstitutionality in the implementation of the publicly applicable primary education and non-compliance programmes of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to which she has exceeded her appointment. The Minister therefore lost her personal integrity, which is necessary for the performance of her duties as Minister and also for the confidence of the public. The Minister in her reply to our interpretation, which tells her that she has not yet implemented the Constitutional Court's decision, says: "I completely reject the findings resulting from that interpretation as unfounded in all points." Minister, if you don't respect us, the opposition, you must comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Everything we read in this interpretation is taken from the Constitutional Court's decision, so you indirectly claim that the Constitutional Court's decision is unfounded. In her reply, the Minister also states that the Constitutional Court has not taken its decision unanimously but by 5 votes in favour and 4 against. I do not know now, Madam Minister, and also to my distinguished colleagues, whether this is a new practice. Perhaps this is the new practice of this government, so that the Constitutional Court’s decision will no longer have to be respected or taken into account if it has not been adopted unanimously. Minister, this is the least nonsense you've written about this. Next. In its reply to the interpretation, the Minister states that the decision of the Constitutional Court has launched an initiative to amend the Constitution. That's not true, Your Honor. The initiative to amend the Constitution was launched by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han, already in February 2015, as soon as the Constitutional Court has decided, and we are now in November 2016. The former President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Mozetič, at the time of presentation of the report of the Constitutional Court for 2015 in this regard, pointed out that if the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia amended the Constitution and the financing of private primary schools differently, as determined by the Constitutional Judges, that would mean that the National Assembly would bypass the decision of the Constitutional Court and that the question of whether such a omission would be admissible or not. I think we all understand here what the former President of the Constitutional Court meant by this. As has already been said, we have warned the Minister of Interpellation at least twice that of non-compliance. We have therefore also tabled in the procedure a proposal to amend the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which would take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Minister, however, apologises for her behaviour or failure to respond to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on our proposal to eliminate non-compliance, has stressed that the proposal for a comprehensive resolution of private schools is based on the new social situations that have taken place in the last year. I must say that I am also very interested in what these new social situations are. The Minister also states in her reply that the decision of the Constitutional Court is well known and that she is aware of the need to implement it. I ask once again, Your Honor, what are you still waiting for? It is because of all of this that we are proposing that the Minister does not carry out her duties in a responsible manner, so we also propose that she be dismissed as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Dear colleagues, we are not talking today, either in public or in private. Today we are talking about whether or not the Constitutional Court decision should be respected. The motions for this interpretation to the Minister – once again I stress – do not reflect anything other than what is stated in the decision of the Constitutional Court. We therefore bear the responsibility for failing to act and delay in drafting the amendment of the law, creating inequalities before the law and abandoning the obligation to act in a political function that results in lost confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and the social state. Dear fellow Members, once again. If you believe that we must respect the Constitution and the laws, I believe that you will support our interpretation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Dear Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! This is basically a short version of my greeting that I had prepared today, given that there is only a handful of us now in this great hall, and this applies both to Members and Members and to representatives of the government. This actually only confirms what I will say next in the presentation of the position of the Desus Group on this and similar interpretations. We have slowly become accustomed to practically every month at one of the regular or extraordinary meetings to deal with the interpretation of the work and responsibility of one of the ministers. There are five of them behind us, six of them today, two more ahead of us, one of them even on the responsibility of the entire government. We're almost there, and we're gonna set a record. Of course, all of this is unproductive. This inflation does not benefit anyone but at least those who invest it. The SDS is becoming more pathetic from day to day. They didn't know how to stay in power, they couldn't come back, but at least they used to be good opposition, and today they don't do that anymore. At one time, interpellation was seen as a serious opposition instrument that pointed to the poor work or the work of the minister concerned, and today, at her mention, everyone on the street swings his hand and thinks his own. Interpellations don't move anyone else, yet the media doesn't, so you don't think the well-respected opposition is raising its popularity. No, the public has read you a long time ago, it's just a pump and cheap populism. No more and no less. You've evaluated the Interpellation Institute, and once a minister really deserves it, this one will come clean, no one will "sorry" and no one will be interested in the content anymore. That's too bad. There is still speculation, blocking the operation of individual ministries, a show for those already convinced, and – as someone in this House has already said – a kindergarten. Just remember the hair of the drawn interpretation against the foreign minister Karl Erjavac, who was not even worthy of his name. Okay. NSIs and, above all, Matthew Tonin wanted to raise their ratings in this way. We understand, you're small, you want higher, you want to play sports, you want to play champions in the league, but you've already scored a goal in your qualifications. I'm afraid today's interpolation won't be as much fun as Eryavchev's. Today it is a market of concepts, a market of worlds. One's for private, the other's for public. It is not the enforcement of the Constitutional Court’s decision – we have pending decisions, by the way, 12 – that is much more. It is about whether we will still have a quality and accessible public primary education in Slovenia. This claim may seem exaggerated at this point, but it's actually a vicious circle that I'm going to explain below. All children have the same rights and all deserve a good basic education, which is the basis for further life. We can't keep this place a secret. We need to provide children with the best possible and, of course, free public education. We are not against private education in the Desus Group. We support the concept of private education as a complement to the public network, but with a clear distinction between public and private. We respect the decision of the Constitutional Court on single financing, but we do not need to agree with it, even because the Constitutional Judges do not agree with each other. This same court decided in 2001 that the financing of public and private schools was different in accordance with the Constitution and in 2014 they amended the opinion by voting 5 to 4. That is why we have also signed an initiative to amend and supplement Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in such a way as to finance public education through public funds and private funding to a limited extent, which would be governed by a specific law. Such arrangements are in force in most European countries. The current arrangement, which provides for 85 % co-financing, is more than appropriate. In neighbouring Italy, for example, there are no percentages for private schools, Austria around 75, Denmark between 80 and 85, Germany between 50 and 99 – depending on the federal country programme – and so on. One of the rare OECD countries, which is 100% funded by public and private primary schools, is Sweden. And it turns out they didn't make the right decision. The quality of the programmes is declining, students' achievements decline compared to other countries, and child segregation has increased. Is that really what we want? We're going all the way to Desus. We believe that private schools in terms of quality are not necessary for us at all, but of course we respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, so parents should be given the opportunity to educate their children in accordance with their philosophical and religious beliefs, but not at the expense of public education. We fear for public education and data from other countries confirm that our concern is not unjustifiable. Today we have five private primary schools, but if we release funding, believe that they will soon be significantly higher. In the end, this means only one less money for public schools. But we know there's not enough money today. These will become less quality in the long run, and parents will prefer to enroll their children in better private schools. All of this will cause new inequalities, and we cannot agree to this in the Desus Group. Do we really want our children to share in primary school with those with elite private education and those with poor public education? As a result, the student of the public school will not be able to enroll in the chosen high school or in a good college. It's not just that. There are private schools, interestingly, only in cities. Did anyone detect a desire or intention to open a private school, say, in Osilnica? Of course not. This means that children from rural areas will already be fundamentally discriminated against. No, we can't let that happen in the Desus Group. We do not want to live in such Slovenia. We support equal opportunities for all. However, since this interpretation does not speak of anything other than the enforcement or non-implementation of a constitutional decision, it shows the great desire of the applicants to privatise public education, the interpretation against Minister Majo Makovec Brenčič in the Desus Group will not be supported by the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Allow me, after all these introductory explanations, to respond to certain things in the names of the parliamentary groups. First of all, Madam Minister, I still, at least with myself, claim that you have been answered by Ministry officials. That your personal experience in previous professions would not allow you the answer you have prepared. You started by saying that these were unfounded findings. Allow, especially for you, once again, the decision of the Constitutional Court: "The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is in the work relating to the publicly applicable curriculum of primary education, in violation of the Constitution. The National Assembly must abolish the constitutionality established within one year." Did you arrange that, Minister? You're not. Whether it is your personal fault or the fault of officials at the Ministry or colleagues from two coalition parties or perhaps colleagues from the largest government party – this is your concern. But the fact is, the Constitutional Court has written down a decision to have it removed within one year, and you have not done so. And a dot, as has already been said today. Again, five to four. I really hope I don't hear this anymore today. We have a vote on the National Assembly. Sometimes it is one vote or two votes with 90 Members. For example, you will allow, given that I am from the opposition parliamentary group, that if there is ever a vote of 40 to 39, we will make a procedural proposal to respect the opinion of those with 39 votes or the will of those who are 40 votes in favour of a law or who have endorsed an amendment can be challenged. So far, we still have parliamentary democracy and we have a majority system. I hope we agree, at least, with those who have also tried and coalition and opposition times, that sometimes – or I hope always – we all believe in our ideas, but sometimes you don't win with it, because the so-called voting machine of the coalition is the one who decides. And I don't believe the Constitutional Court ruled as a voting machine, but there are constitutional judges. Who appointed those constitutional judges, we know. No president of the Republic has ever been from either the right or the middle political field, if you will. And who's proposing to the Constitutional Judges? Presidents of the Republic. But we know that some have already expired this mandate, some will, and those towers, which are already very much dreaming on the left, will obviously turn completely to the left. In short, the Minister, there are well-founded allegations, we have spoken exclusively about this decision of the Constitutional Court, although we could also talk about other decisions of the Constitutional Court in your department, the illegality of permanent additions and so on. But we've decided that if someone as a minister violates the Constitution, that's more than enough reason to interpret. What other interpretations were like, were just more than some non-work, unserious work or misleading – this time we have the Minister of Education on the ground and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Once again, apart from 5 to 4, the Constitutional Commission. I regret that the President of the Government, who was a constitutional lawyer, went to finally explain this family whether the Constitutional Commission was the Constitutional Court's decision. Today, it has been said that the application for the amendment of the Constitution rather than the law of the SDS was earlier made. That's not true. We put him in earlier, but it takes a while for you to get in line for the National Assembly meeting. But we have the Constitution, we have the Constitutional Court's decision, and we have the Constitutional Commission, but it wants to make an introduction, but it's something else. The constitution is clear. Primary school – that no one will say that I am a doctorate – is compulsory and financed by public funding. That's paragraph 57, paragraph two. That's what we're talking about today. Dear Minister, as colleague Nada said before, the parents knew when they were signing in. That's a little hypocritical, but... I really hope you'll have someone at the Ministry a little bit behind your ears. The decision was held at the end of 2013, in Official Journal 9. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official It should be settled within one year. Parents enrolled their children in the good faith that this government, which had triumphed over the rule of law, respect for the Constitution, and law, would arrange for it. She didn't do it. In short, it was about cheating on your parents. Social change. If anyone is afraid of establishing schools by the Roman Catholic Church, there were politically much better times when the Church could establish primary schools. Finally, financial situations within the Roman Catholic Church or some other, if you want, were much better than they are now. After 2014, however, there was a social change – parliamentary elections. Victory and coalition of three left parties, although one in one European group Alda. I'm always interested in what and how colleagues from Alda look at the SMC Group when they talk about private issues with such a perverse attitude. But, Your Honor Minister, you are also part of this SMC ministerial quota. In short, social changes were only political elections in the National Assembly in 2014. But if anyone's afraid of breaking into Muslim schools or any other school, it's the government that has every opportunity across the world to say "stop." Not only Muslim, but also any other school can say "stop." I've been asking myself a little bit about what the problems have been for those who now have private primary schools. Waldorf School – how church is, you will tell. Aloyzi Schuštar’s elementary school – how church it is, you will tell yourself, at least those who were there, you can talk about it. Montessori Institute. The elite schools themselves, and today we hear about how bad things are. However, I will stop when I speak of the opinion of the groups of Members. Dear Minister, if the bill is published – we know that it was, at that time, even a little debate – what is the problem with getting this law into the SDS Group? I know that this law is in interdepartmental coordination, but the easiest way to stop us today is to send this law through e-mail to the SDS Group today and to say that Article 86, as the Constitutional Court's decision refers to, is resolved in this and this article. We do not have this and we are still subject to a decision of the Constitutional Court that has not been carried out. Further procedures are under way, we don't have this information. The e-democracy was the draft of the law, but, Madam Secretary, we are aware that that draft was then seen in the law when you told us that you had a marriage, but that law was full of records and everything else, but private education was not touched. That was the last piece of information, and then the law went out of what's called e-democracy. Suma sumarum, Minister, you're still in violation of the Constitution. Is it your fault, as I said before, I hardly doubt it. If officials who have an ideological basis at the Ministry of Education, which is widely discussed, are guilty of how the Ministry of Education, apart from the Ministry of Justice, is the most ideologically burdened ministry in this country, then this is also your fault. If you have a coalition problem, it's also the president of the government's fault. However, if you want to solve matters, once again, I will say that the doors of the SDS Group are always open to you. Do not then explain how something started to happen in April of this year. The decision of the Constitutional Court was published in the Official Journal last January. When you were three months and after two attempts by the SDS Group, you were on your way. In short, the delay is at every turn. SD MP, colleague Janko Weber: "It's about undermining the public." 0.7% of primary schools are private. I'm not talking about private. I'm talking about private. And you're talking about undermining the public. In what way? It's like someone said that one of the MPs wants to fight the other 89, and you're saying there's not gonna be enough of them, and the others have to have some serious problem. Here too – 0.7, we are talking about the financing of public programmes, ranging not from nothing to 100 percent, but from 85 to 100 percent. What do some international comparisons say, how do they handle things? We are in the Republic of Slovenia. We are subject to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and are also subject to the laws of the Constitutional Court. My colleague Weber said that there would be difficult remedial consequences. Like what? If there is a new private primary school in sight – this is what we are talking about today, not in secondary, higher and higher schools – you will know this much more than we do. Once again, the government is left, the coalition is left and you can set up any schools, and on the other hand you can also give a stop sign to schools if you do not want to establish them. In addition, question 5 to 4 and the previous judgments. Once again, the 2001 judgment says something completely different. This 2013 Decision is special because it speaks for the first time about publicly valid programmes in primary schools, since they are compulsory and should be free of charge after the end of primary school. But we probably all agree, as it has been said, that this does not hold true. However, the 2011 decision referred to private schools, not only primary schools, but also secondary schools, higher schools, higher schools and everyone else, not only the financing of public programmes, but also everything else. I, too, would have problems with such a decision by the Constitutional Court, which, indeed, might have pushed this public education to some European level and, of course, such a decision if a decision of the Constitutional Court had been taken, would never have been established, at least as long as there were any left-wing parties in the National Assembly. But once again, we're talking about publicly valid primary school programs. I will repeat this a hundred times today because this is what we have in the Constitution and this is what the Constitutional Court's decision is talking about, not all other matters, how we have private education, private education, which is everything that is thrown away, is thrown together by primary school, secondary school, and all of it has one denominator – the establishment of the ideology of public education, which is feared by 0.7% of private education. Dear colleague Janko Weber does not hold that the SDS has the opposite concept. Yes, public schools, but good public schools and, as the Minister herself said, as an addition to a good private school. But you also stop those who are because they do not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, if there is a desire for new ones, you are also part of a coalition that can tell us what or how many private schools and what programs you want them with. And they're gonna have two problems there. The first is whether they can even have the conditions, and the second is that any superstandard is not paid by the State. We're only talking about public programs. Children of these primary schools receive the same documents at the end of primary school as those of public school. That's all we're talking about. If they wanted to have any items, we should pay for them ourselves. But if we were ideologically or religiously converted, this is the basic condition that the minister might say, "Stop, we don't allow such schools." There's another thing about funding. All those who walk in your congregations know how much trouble and money a primary school can bring. An example — we will have one school opening during the municipal holiday this week or another. It cost six million dollars. Who was funding her? State. A little bit of local self-government, too. In the case of private schools, however, the EUR 4 million that the state had to give would not be questionable at all. "Make yourself at home." What equipment they will have and whether they will have any gyms or not is a matter for a private investor to want to set up a primary school. As for the United Left, I would prefer not to say anything because they are welcome to Venezuela in 2016 in the Slovenian political and ideological space. How harmful the changes are, how inexplicable it is, to undermine. In short, instead of any tablet I'd rather drop a comment from the Joint Left Group. Here I would like to thank the New Slovenia Group for its support. I underlined two, three things from my colleague Ludmila Novak. First, not just rich in private schools. Exactly because some others heard that only the rich went to private schools. Your Honor, which one of you was in Waldorf School, Aloysz Schusthar Primary School, or Montessori Institute? They're not considered the richest schools, but they're the best. Once again, they can be established where they do not undermine public primary schools. Ludmila's colleague also talked about quality and choice. Yes, this is what we want to have in Slovenia, not that 0.7% delete from the school system. I'll end up thanking New Slovenia. As Ludmila said, the decision is binding and must be put to the test. The decision of the Constitutional Court is binding and binding. I agree with 100%. Colleagues from the unaffiliated are apparently uneven, so they are truly unrelated and indistinguishable. Yes, we have already discussed three times, but colleague Mirjam Bon Klanjšček still does not understand that the 1998 and 2001 decisions of the Constitutional Court are not comparable to that of 2014. At the same time, he does not seem to know that there is funding for public programmes, but even less that there are conditions for the establishment of a private school. I know that colleague Miriam is not in the coalition, but the government is the one who decides on the terms. Moreover, by Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, they were said to be in favour of ending competition. Even Luke Moon didn't dare say that. "To end competition." We're talking about what's mandatory in the Constitution. Primary schools are compulsory. However, I will not go into how many politicians and economists from the left political field put children in private schools, not only private in Slovenia, but private abroad, which are expensive. How many of these politicians and economists, their children, family members use private health care? Suddenly, Mrs Miram Bon Klanjšček said that they are contrary to certain articles of the anti-competitive constitution. Concerned that this is what we are talking about and listening to at the so-called temple of democracy in 2016. I've got two more who've given each other a shower. I understand that colleague Simona Kustec Lipicer had to spend some time and have a lot of flossules and that two-thirds of the time was outside the context of interpretation. I've heard a lot of those concepts, which I almost forgot, from the Faculty of Social Sciences, when we had so many theories that we didn't even know how to order coffee at the end, because from every season of the body, there was a democratic dictatorship -- fundamental values, competitiveness, blah, blah, blah. This has been a great deal today, but very little in the constitution. Today we have had a new break-in for the Modern Center Party. While on Thursday or Friday we listened to how the circular economy is a priority and center of everything, today is the center of everything, you will not believe, education. My colleague said that education is a priority. Dear Members and Members of the SMC, give a slight reduction in the number of priorities and at least one to achieve. You have a new priority every day, but every day a new unfulfilled priority. Colleague Simona said they respected the Constitutional Court's decisions. Which one? You don't respect the ones you've been talking about today. You've been disrespecting her for 10 months. I hear you're preparing some kind of law, but the decision is clear and you don't respect it. With regard to the other decisions, fine, but today we are talking about this decision on the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. I'll leave it aside how SDS is guilty, how nothing has been done about the same-sex. Who first adopted the same - sex law? The government that was the most right or the only one on the right. That government has accepted it. So we did something, we weren't always against it. Who does something and how the political mirror will set us up, there is no problem in the parliamentary group that we are responsible for our actions. They have more of a problem for that party for one term after the next term of a handful up there in the last row, left to themselves than a serious discussion. Colleague Simona said that we have been discussing the facts since April 2016. However, we have a January 2015 decision. Once again the slow motion of this coalition and this government. Three months after we had to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, you said we had started talking about facts. In short, if today's debate were to be followed by this draft law, which would have a decision of the Constitutional Court, the debate could be much easier and, above all, much less time. Comrade Wilfan, what an SDS station, don't worry, because you'll never be in the SDS either. He said a violation of the Constitution wasn't enough for an interpolation. Infringement of the Constitution is not enough to interpret. Your Honor, tell all those people who are being stopped by a police officer because they're taking 5 or 10 kilometers too far to pay the penalty because they're going to say, "If you don't respect the Constitution, I won't respect the law." I'm sure the policeman will step down and say, "Yes, sir, I'm sorry, but the law isn't the same for everyone, and we're not even going to talk about the constitution, so go ahead." Ah, of course it will. I often laugh that as an SDS member, I would probably get double points from police officers if I did anything wrong because I am not in favour of the ruling coalition. My colleague Wilfan says that a violation of the Constitution is not enough to interpret. Yeah, well, what's enough to interpolate? How many dead do you think must be in order to be able to talk about the interpretation of a minister, but if the violation of the Constitution as our legal order is not enough to interpret? Comrade Wilfan, you said it was a world crash. It's not about any knocks. We are still for public education, but we want what Mr Cerar says and does not do. We respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and do not enforce them. Once again, just look at the coalition document or the program of the Modern Centre Party. I do not think that any coalition contract has had so many rights, constitution, law, legal principle in the contract. We have been listening there since June 2013 only about the rule of law. Then you come and you say, "Constitutional decision, they're what!" More. My friend Wilfan said we don't need private schools, but private schools are better. Then let's think differently. Why don't we just have private schools that are better and that are actually cheaper because the country doesn't have to give so much for equipment, space and payment of so-called superstandards? My colleague Wilfan said that public education is worse. He spits out private schools, and then he says how much better private schools are, but he's happy that we have worse public schools, and before that, he says, "How good teachers are." It doesn't go in context. Now you will have to decide whether you will radically oppose private schools, which you are, just then do not talk about how private schools are better and public schools are worse. Once again, Mr Wilphan, if you do not know who is financing what and what the conditions for setting up are, you better not discuss the issue of financing public-private programmes in primary schools. I ask once again that today's debate will not be about what our educational system is, what is the issue of secondary, higher and higher schools, how some of the standards are paid if we know exactly what the Constitutional Court's decision requires. Once again, Madam President, every time someone says how five judges have decided how we have a Constitutional Commission, which is obviously above the Constitution, how this opinion of constitutional judges is different from that of 2001 and how 1% of private primary education breaks public education, I will always make a procedural statement and request an apology from the speaker because he obviously does not know the matter we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić has the word to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go, Mr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Ambassador Lisec earlier said how sorry he was that the Prime Minister was no longer in this room because he wanted to explain something to him, how sorry he was that he was gone. I was sorry to see him sitting here sadly with his colleague Brinovšek, and all his colleagues left him. I also see now that there are five MPs present who are proposing the interpretation. At first, we even had a problem with the quorum. This indicates the seriousness of this intervention by the SDS. Unfortunately, we are losing hours and hours to follow some attempts to destabilise the political space that will fail. If we focus on interpolation, I did not go to the Faculty of Social Sciences, so that my language will not be so theoretical and I hope it will be specific enough to taste Mr Lisco. The SDS Party shall, at all times from the publication of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is practically the only basis for today's interpretation, consistently interprets one and the same, with all possible and impossible opportunities, without delay the financing of public and private schools. In this respect, it also submitted its proposals for amendments to the ZOFVI twice last year and once this year. Now, in the flood of interpolation, she has put in another interpolation, this time against the Minister of Education. It is quite clear that in this way, with such hyperproduction of interpellations, the SDS is an important instrument of parliamentary democracy that is thoroughly and completely devalued. Apart from equating funding, the SDS all remaining issues in the area of private education seem to be less important or uninteresting. Here, too, the rest of the world seemed to have stopped spinning around in the area of independence, and somehow they seemed to have forgotten everything that had happened between them, both in Slovenia and in the area around us. In particular, in the SDS, they have thoroughly forgotten — indeed thoroughly — what heroics they have witnessed in the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions in all these years. But let us go in line and give some facts which the SDS stubbornly does not want to see or hear, which is also evident from the implementation of Mr Lisco. Let me say that interpellation against Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič could even be understood and possibly even supported if the Minister was completely impervious and did not consider the Constitutional Court's judgment. On the contrary, the Minister has repeatedly pointed out that she does not oppose the Constitutional Court's decision, has publicly stated that she knows the judgment well and is aware of the need to enforce it. It also made clear in this respect that funding is not the only topic to be regulated by law when speaking about private education and that this simply cannot be the only viable solution to such a complex problem. It has repeatedly pointed out that everything that is currently missing in this private education law needs to be legally defined. It is particularly lacking in the light of the many social changes that have taken place in recent decades around the world. The Minister clearly put herself at the heart of the challenge, in order only to align the financing of private public schools, without setting clear criteria for achieving the quality of private education, would be risky. In particular, it would be risky at the start of new schools, which have not yet emerged in the Slovenian area, and there are trends in wanting to appear or wanting to establish them. For this reason, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the ZOFVI was carefully prepared, which was then put into public debate since mid-April, and was sent to the Inter-Resort hearing a few days ago. In addition to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's judgment on the equalisation of private and public school funding, which the SDS is so difficult and eager to expect, this legal amendment sets out the following. Firstly, the obligation of the private school to ensure, on the one hand, an equivalent educational standard, but also to enrich the public offering and enable parents to choose from a programme different from a public education programme. In this way, there are clear conditions for the adoption of the programme, thus preventing the programme from being contrary to the objectives of the public education programme or from going to a different extreme when a private school simply prescribes a public education programme with a few minor supplements. Secondly, the obligation to evaluate the implementation of the programme is defined, i.e. to verify the implementation level of the programme at the private school. Thirdly, more detailed conditions for private schools are laid down, for example, that a private school must have at least 80% of teachers required to implement a public policy programme. Fourthly, it is laid down that the school is included in the survey of the implementation operators of the education programme. And so on. The Minister of Law, in addition to implementing the Constitutional Court decision, therefore applies the principle that, in setting up private schools, it is necessary to ensure the enrichment and completion of the public school system, but that, on the other hand, the public school system should be protected or prevented from being disrupted or restricted. In view of the lack of clear or specific legislation, the case of neighbouring Austria, where authorities in Vienna closed a private Saudi school two years ago, shows how far it can lead to developments. It turned out that it was not clear who was the principal of this school, who was teaching it exactly, but above all, the contents that had been taught were unclear, among other things, because they had been given to the disciples in Arabic. In particular, it was worrying that extreme anti - Semitic content, or literature, had turned out to be the subject of extreme anti - Semitic content, a very impatient ideology. It has remained such a legitimate fear that extreme or violent ideas can spread with such imprudent functioning of a private school and that young people can be raised in a completely different sense, such as the generally accepted Austrian social values. After that, Mr Lisec will come, who says that this is no problem at all, that the government can say stop. That's interesting. This is a very interesting view of the SDS on government powers as SDS understands democracy. In my opinion, the government can't say a single step if there's no legal basis to even check what's going on or what's going on at a private school that this guy or he would like to set up. In order to avoid such complications, we also need to set clear criteria for future private schools, which will also be financed with the money of Slovenian taxpayers, in order to avoid such complications. Simply so that we do not repeat the bad experiences of other countries, which would be favoured by overly written legislation. It is certainly necessary to maintain at least a minimum common starting point for education and education in society so that freedom of choice does not become destructive in order to prevent private education from bringing divisions and conflicts to society instead of socially rich diversity. I hope that in this way I have emphasised once again what the Minister has already explained many times, why it has not been enough just and only to enforce the novel ZOFVI in the way proposed by the SDS, and why it has taken more time for a better solution. A more systematic and comprehensive change was needed to avoid situations that, as my colleague Tabaković has repeatedly expressed itself, anyone with five minutes of time could establish a private school and finance the implementation of one programme from the state budget. But the SDS does not, of course, look at all these arguments and repeat one and the same mantra about how the Minister missed the deadline and thereby caused damage, a fall in trust in the rule of law, confidence in the system and so on. At all these performances, one would think that these people in the SDS are characteristic and unwavering, and their intransigence and harsh convictions draw from their principles. The legitimacy of their accusations can be demonstrated by their actions from the past, by actions that have shown how to work in a policy for the peoples of goods, and in particular how the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be strictly enforced. And let's look back a little bit, not so far back when the SDS was in power. We don't even have to leave the department. Let's just stick to what we're talking about today and see how the Constitutional Court's judgments were met by the super minister of education, culture, science and other matters of Dr. Žiga Turk of SDS. The 2011 Constitutional Court's decisions on the Higher Education Act, Dr. Žiga Turk, somehow failed to implement, even though the deadline for its implementation expired in early 2012, and he would also have faced interpretation if the government of Janez Janša had failed in February 2013 because of the corruption scandals of the government of Janez Janša. However, it collapsed when the state was on the brink of bankruptcy, and the National Assembly was legally enraged by the people and the MPs had to defend armed forces with military equipment, behind fences at the ready of armored, tear gas and helicopters, which were strictly commanded by Minister Vinko Gorenak. At that time, Minister Turk declared in his defence why the decisions of the Constitutional Court did not come true: "This is neither the first nor the last decision of the Constitutional Court which was not respected, and is the Minister's interpretation of this earlier exception as a rule." That's what Dr. Turk said. Now, Mr Lisec, who has gone somewhere, is teaching Mr Wilphan how his relativisation of the need for interpretation in case of failure to comply with the Constitutional Court judgment is not in place. I believe that Mr. Lisec will instruct or call Dr. Turk to tell him. Dr Turk's second quote: "That's true," which is that he failed to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment, "but it is necessary to put it in context. At present, many decisions of the Constitutional Court have not been implemented. These data are not systematically collected, but we know that our ministry has only two issues open, funding for higher education and religious freedom." Dr Turk's third quote on the constitutional decision: "The Constitutional Decision imposes on the Ministry the regulation of public service in the field of higher education and the legal arrangements for the financing of higher education in law. Both require an open debate and consensus with higher education stakeholders in a sterile environment. Above all, it must be stressed that the legal solution to this area, contrary to the unjustified expectations that some are spreading, will not in itself bring additional funding to higher education." Thus, Minister Turk, on behalf of the SDS party, publicly declared that resolving such important issues requires an open debate and consensus with stakeholders in a stable environment, but it is problematic that he has even openly undermined the Constitutional Court's decision by arguing that the legal solution to the area will not bring additional funding for higher education. It is said that this legal solution, as mandated by the Constitutional Court's decision. In fact, he relativised only the Constitutional Court’s judgment in this way, while in 2012 he also addressed some other issues of the Higher Education Act with the amendment of the same law, but rather avoided the disadvantages of implementing the Constitutional Court’s decision. It did not attempt to implement it at all, although the law was open, which was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on 20 November 2012, when it was explicitly reminded by the Legislative and Legal Service that the draft law, despite the expiry of the time limit for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, did not include a provision that would eliminate the established unconstitutionality of individual provisions of the ZVIZ. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, this is evident to Minister Makovec Brenčič, but of course she does not see her behaviour a few years ago. They've already forgotten that. Now they're incredibly principled, and then they had a little bit of a problem with that. In the SMC Group, we rightly expect that they will now support in the SDS a new law on higher education that complies with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which failed to implement exactly their minister. Unlike their minister, today’s Minister – our Minister, from the SMC quota – does not relativise the Constitutional Court’s judgments, but intends to implement them responsibly and comprehensively, by means of a law that has been publicly dealt with, he is now in interdepartmental coordination and will soon be put into parliamentary procedure. So the solution is, so to speak, SDS knows this, because of course it follows developments. If we sincerely wanted to implement the Constitutional Court judgment as soon as possible, we would support the SDS minister. However, the Minister must be interpelled in a flood of interpretations against everyone, of course, in order to bring this government down and lead to another or third, or I do not know which republics have been dreaming about in the SDS for two decades or more. If we look a little bit further at the attitude of the SDS to the judgments of the Constitutional Court. During its two mandates, the SDS adopted a number of laws for which the Constitutional Court later found their non-constitutionality and did not remedy such violations or unconstitutionalities in due time. They have thus shown a carefree attitude towards the importance of the principle of equality and equal protection of rights, as our ministers today say. The most significant one already mentioned today was that the SDS held in the case of the Constitutional Court twice, in 1999 and 2003, decided that the removal was unlawful from the register of permanent residents of the country. Thus, the Constitutional Court ordered the authorities to recover their unlawful status. The long-term decisions were not implemented, and the Constitutional Court decision remained outstanding for seven years until 2010. In 2004-2008, that is to say, the whole mandate, when led by the first government of Janez Janša, did not seem problematic to them for five years – in fact it was not a delay, but it was a blocking of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision – and today they are appalled at the 10-month delay. Today, at the 10-month delay of current Minister Makovec Brenčič, their sense of human rights is far more unseemly developed than in the case of deleted. The deleted were not a matter that could be compared with the right of parents not to pay tuition because they felt that their child should receive religious content at the time of teaching, or that it should only be played with wooden toys. There were over 25,000 people who had been violated by basic human rights. To many of them, the country has literally destroyed existence by unlawful conduct. But things have not yet ended here, as was already said today. Later, when Minister Virant, by law on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, established a way of redressing the damages compensated for the so-called removal from the register of permanent population, he was even interpelled in the SDS. They have interpelled the person who has made it possible to execute the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. A very eloquent attitude that fully explains the legality of today's interpolation initiators. The same was true in the case of same-sex rights. In 2005, today's interpellationers adopted the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, for which the Constitutional Court, upon its adoption, has repeatedly found it to be unconstitutional. Thus, last in 2009, it found that Article 22 of the Act was inconsistent with the Constitution and that, despite this unconstitutionality, colleagues in the SDS did not abolish their government during the second term or maintain the anti-constitutional situation. I could still count it, but that's enough. Let me conclude with regret that today we will spend an entire day or at least a worker and a half to deal with a 10-month delay in solving the problem that is already being solved. The delay, therefore, which is several times smaller than the delay, but rather than the blockade committed by today's interpelling proponents in the implementation of the Constitutional Court's judgment, is a party to the SDS. There is a Scriptural saying in this place: "What do you see in your brother's eye, and you do not see the brown in your eye?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Mrs. Iva Dimic ready. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Interpellations against the Minister of Education, Science and Sport will not be supported for the reason that the content of interpolation is absolutely contrary to our work, so it is completely wrong and I cannot support it in any way. Minister, I expect your support for the Social Democrats' proposal to complement Article 57 of the Constitution and, of course, to follow up on the implementation of the coalition agreement. Our position clearly states that the State must first take care of a quality public school and I expect the Minister to maintain the quality of public education despite her preference for private education and that the financing of private education will in no way harm public education. I also hope that, in the second part of the mandate, the Minister will focus more on work in other areas, not only on higher education from which it comes. So allow me to touch on the issues of our 9-year education programme, which was originally set up as a kind and encouraging school. The students have taken it a year younger and therefore need different and more friendly approaches. Today, when I talk to my parents and teachers, those expectations do not seem to be fully fulfilled. The school has become too demanding, learning plans overcrowded with nonliving and unnecessary content. I feel that only new content is added each year and that unnecessary content is still being preserved. If teachers follow the curriculum, they rush the substance, but there is not enough time left for the substance to be solidified, so students need to devote much and much of the afternoon to their homework and substance with the help of their parents. I don’t think that’s the point, since students need relaxation, rest, and new strengths in the afternoon — as we do in the field ministry. Imagine parents who can’t help or can’t help their children. Some may hire instruction, while others may not have the support they need, and so there are learning problems in school. It is most easy for such students to obtain a decision on specific learning problems, which is not and must not be intended to do so. I am convinced that we should carry out a thorough evaluation of the nine-year-old and recast her, including the introduction of those content into curricula that are actually intended for primary school programmes. Many things should be taken away and deleted — abstract, too heavy, nonlife content — if we are to have a friendly school where students will gain the necessary knowledge that will benefit them from further education, which will be interesting, life-saving, and will gladly receive and learn. Our goal must be to make our children happy to go to school, not with resistance and possible psychosomatic problems. In 2011, a White Paper was presented which evaluated the planned direction of education and education in Slovenia and also provided concrete guidance for improvement. While some of them have been transferred through various measures, some proposals are still in the drawer. Madam Minister, I would like you to devote more attention to this level of education. Today, however, students have found definitions and other factual data, and we are all aware that this is only a short period of time. I believe you're familiar with the nine-year-old sidelines. Much, really there is too much theory in the subject of education – music, sports education, art education. They learn theories, and after two months they can't sing a single song. If I touch only mathematics, for example, counting, there is no time for fatigue. Because they must learn to count in the first triad, they forget it without fortification, and then parents blame the teachers for not teaching them. I was present when teachers at lower and higher levels argued who was guilty, or those at lower levels that they had not learned, or those at higher levels that did not solidify material with them. Let me also touch on the problems of children with special needs. We've talked a lot about her at the meetings, but the effect was stingy. I expect you, Minister, to define, in cooperation with other colleagues and colleagues in the Government, systemic measures for integrated treatment and priorities in this highly sensitive area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Proposer, please. Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u27	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. Matić. I had an outside obligation. The fact that he discredits the SDS in his implementation is nothing new. Apparently, it's only part of the policy that the more you spit on the SDS, the closer you'll be to the list before the next election, when this maneuvering space of the SMC Group is lost. I also understand him talking about lost hours. For members of the coalition, there is always a problem when, instead of being at home, they have to spend the whole day in the National Assembly, even when it comes to matters proposed by the opposition. If we look at the functioning of the mandate of this National Assembly, you must spend about half the time also because of the opposition, because you do not do it yourself, and then we must call emergency meetings, make laws, and not least interpellations. I would like to remind Mr Matić of the same-sex and deleted. With regard to the same - sex groups, we know who adopted the first marriage, but you do not want to admit it at all — the right government. Yes, part of it was then unconstitutional, but one article was also resolved through left governments, and yet left governments did not get a sufficient number of votes to enforce. However, as far as deleted, respected, I think we have tabled a proposal for a constitutional law several times in the SDS Group, but you have always been against it. Just like you're always against it, then do it your way. And it was a fiscal world, and you did it your way. And, mate Matić, look who's ever signed first. We were not always first-signed Members and Members of the SDS Group. Dear Minister, Mr Matić said that there are trends since the establishment of new private schools. Please enlighten us, at least in the opposition, how many initiatives are at this point in the ministry, what are these schools, or are there some threats to the Austrian case mentioned by colleague Matić, or are these serious private schools in terms of what we now have. Don't worry, Mr Matić, even in the SDS Group we are strictly against cases like the one you mentioned in Austria. We hope that we will all be so wise together that we will not allow such cases by amending legislation or by making them soundly reasonable. However, my colleague Matić reminded me, of course, that I know why you do not have a problem only with SD and Desus parliamentary groups or with officials at the Ministry in implementing the Constitutional Court decision, but obviously also with a large part of the SMC Group, which hides its liberality outside behind the sociological debates in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the word to prepare Mrs. Iva Dimic and Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u29	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Yes, this interpretation is at least seeming to be behind the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, and in fact we will probably be listening to this particular debate throughout the day, which has already become quite pervasive in these opening hours, and this is, of course, a public and private education. So, of course, I'm going to add my 5 cents to that. Of course, in the United Left, we have a very clear view of education. Education is something we could call justice. The intellectual achievements of mankind should be the property of everyone and, of course, everyone should be able, through a quality and especially public education, to acquire and noble these intellectual achievements. This is not only a primary level, but these principles should also apply to all other levels of education. Education must, of course, be a universally accessible principle and can only be so if it is publicly and publicly financed. Of course, education is also part of the socio-economic system. In this he plays his specific role and we can talk about two roles above all. The first is that quality and accessible education is somehow the basis of social mobility for all. It's a basic function. Of course, it also ensures greater social equality. Another aspect is that it has an important impact both on the economy, i.e. the life of the national economy, and thus on the development direction of the country itself. Why am I saying this? The decision on these two aspects is, of course, political in the first place. Do we want a society that is highly technologically developed and sustainable? If this is a vision, then we need highly educated and capable people. On the other hand, we can somehow land or land on a peripheral economy, with a small sector, privatised branches of international corporations and, of course, low-skilled labour. Lately, the direction in which we are currently going is more like this other picture. The second question is the question of social justice and equality. Here I believe that public and private education is a key debate. Let's be more specific. Do we want a greater role for the market and private interest, or do we want publicly provided services? If the market plays a greater role, these services – including education – are not accessible to all or at least not of the same quality. Why? Because this access limits property differences. What does private education actually bring to the elementary school level? I think there are some indications already mentioned by colleague Weber that it may also have some irreparable consequences for strengthening private education. For private schools, this is a specific form of public-private partnership where private interests are financed or at least partially financed by public funds. The private owner of the school may have different interests. On the one hand, it can be profit or a certain world view, which is most common at the moment. It is worth mentioning here that education has already been outlawed by religious communities. Today, these ideals and achievements of enlightenment are no longer so self-evident, which is why we also need to give a special role to these issues and, of course, to speak clearly about them. Private school can choose its students. This is also one of the aspects that is important and discriminates against them with this choice. They may be discriminated against on the basis of ethnicity, on the basis of a handicap and, of course, with a view to avoiding pupils who face certain difficulties in the learning process. It's not just talk, but things have happened in the past. Private schools can calmly reject the admission of a particular child for such or other reasons, which is, of course, in some way contrary to the Constitution. Full-funded private schools can achieve superstandard education through a small contribution, i.e. schooling. There's that danger or that difference. This, of course, can lead to the predominance of private education over public education in the long term, simply because they will eventually offer better performance, if I say so, in short, they will do better. Such education, education, which is in a way discriminatory and makes differences between children, of course is not universally available, is selective, selective on the basis of property and also one that substantiates class forms. We have a fine example of this in the United States, where there are two school systems — one for the wealthy and one for the poor. Access to quality education is a key aspect in ensuring greater social justice and equality, i.e. this social mobility. Preservation and, of course, preservation of the development of a publicly funded school system are fundamental. We must by no means allow neoliberal offensives into the educational system to also penetrate the basic level of education and that we are already starting to produce social differences in children and, above all, reproduce. These differences in performance are already conditioned by class and layer membership. Different cultural capital, i.e. access to information, access to cultural institutions and so on, in childhood benefits rich or wealthier than poor people, and public school is the one that has to equalise these differences and conditions. A while ago, I took note of a study that clearly shows that children from poorer families – and we know that today there are many of them in Slovenia, about 54,000 – because of conditions in their free time, conditions in which they live, and so on, cannot achieve such results, although they have exactly the same potential as all other children because they have these external limitations. This is what basic and, of course, public primary education must be abolished or at least partially mitigated. It is therefore essential that primary education be made available to all in order not to discriminate against certain social groups, i.e. regardless of property, religious, ethnic or national origin, and that they are, of course, ideologically not only neutral, but also susceptible to what could be called civilisation and social progress. Below the line – to serve for the emancipation of mankind. Such education is one that must be public and must be provided by the State. This would, of course, be important at this time — of course, with the Government, the Ministry or the Minister of the United Left, we do not agree — and we also insist that at this point we should make this division more clear in the Constitution. Therefore, not now to amend the law which would allow public funding for private schools, but to clearly state in the Constitution that only public schools can be financed from public money, unless the public system in a particular area does not allow this service. This is what is important in this debate and what we are actually listening to today. We have seen similar reasons in the intervention of the Minister of Health, where the issue of concessions was once again, if presented in the end, and the question of favouring private or private systems through public. Therefore, I think that the agenda offered by those who have prepared the interpretation is quite clear here, even though they are trying to conceal it for the implementation of the constitutional decision. In fact, this is exactly what is behind the financing of some kind of ideological or religious control, and in particular the strengthening of the power of private schools, which, potentially in the future, could somehow put the current situation off balance. Of course, on the other hand, there are also foxes on the minister's work, but given that the interpellation's proponents have not even mentioned and have focused only on this issue, they probably have no sense of opening them up. The fact is that much remains to be done in the areas of education, science, probably also in the area of sports infrastructure, its financing and so on. But it's probably gonna be a debate for some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Prepare Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpretation will, of course, touch on various subjects, but it is important to stress certain matters that are clear to all citizens and citizens and also require that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and must be respected. Madam Minister, here is your greatest responsibility to delay this implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision and then, not least in the National Assembly, to open up some ideological issues, and to me personally, I can say even impatient topics. What, though, is private education? I don't know any private education in Slovenia yet. It is a public programme implemented by private schools. Let this be clear to everyone, however, that the state must determine what to learn, how much to learn, what textbooks are available, and then, on the basis of this, education is carried out in private premises. The program is practically the same to the public. I've prepared a couple of graphs to try and figure out the difference between public and private schools. The same program is implemented, everyone is implementing the same program. Public schools have this covered 100%. Private schools implementing the public programme shall have a coverage of 85%. There was talk of someone endangering public education. Here is also a graph of how endangered our public education is. This shows that practically 0.7% of children are enrolled in private primary schools. It has been said that these are children from wealthy families, that we are creating some elite schools, but it is necessary to look at the wealth of families that these children come from. Children with free lunch at Aloyzi Šuštar primary school are all red-colored, representing 38%. The kid who goes to Aloyzi Šuštar primary school and has a free lunch is 38%. If we move forward, let us see the children with free lunch at Montessori elementary school in Ljubljana, which you also said was an elite school. 54% of the children in this primary school – not after the law we discussed in the past weeks, which pay grade will be higher. There are already 54% of children in this school who have free lunch. Indeed, quality public education is needed to make children feel good in school. All of this is true, and under all of this, I sign. However, one difference is important. If I give you a graph where the percentage of paid math hours is in public and private school. For the 6th grade of primary school adapted in a section of 28 pupils, 140 hours of teaching mathematics were paid from public funds. It's a public school, 140 hours. In a private school, as well as in the 6th grade with 28 students per department, it is paid from the public programme 119 hours and 21 hours of mathematics to the prescribed 140 hours of teaching paid by parents. That's the difference we're talking about. We are talking about the same programme and the same content, but it can be interpreted differently if people do not want to be treated equally and respect what they have achieved that the Constitutional Court decision is also respected. There were many words today — public education, public health. What have the last few months shown our country? That customers quoted more on the left are defending and furious about the importance of public health care and how important public education is, however, we see what public health means to those who love it. Or how many people have from this public health care, which is public health, and I'm defending it, but not that you have to pay 20,000 euros to get on some list. I hope that the law enforcement authorities will, of course, prosecute this. And public education. Madam Minister, the fact that you have not complied with the decision is a second step, which I am convinced is a matter of last thought, if you cannot possibly simply literally be a prisoner of your own coalition or anything, for your departure. Because I personally expected you to leave when there was an affair of permanent readiness in public and you were involved. It's a public school. This is public education and public health, which, on the one hand, makes it possible for public education and public health to exploit all those who do not actually have a hot meal or to pay for any extra hour of a circle. And to say that we have to worry about this, of course, because they are waiting for some supplements in the back for constant preparedness or for some of the operations that have been performed just a little earlier. I'm finally in a lot of pain. When, though, will we overlook the need to work for the good of mankind so that we can look to the good of our future generations? They're not going to empty our schools, too low birth rates are going to empty them. What do we do as Members of this National Assembly for this low birth rate and consequently an empty public school? Practically nothing. Yes, a warm meal, too, is a controversy that has been dragging since 2014. I had already asked a question of the letter to then Minister Pical, which was 26. 3. However, what will be done for the children, since there was also an affair when they were beeping because the parents did not have enough to pay the bills. This is still happening today and this is a picture of our social state. On the one hand, hungry children, unpaid parental bills, which are not to blame, can be a disease at home, can be a job loss, but, as we say, it is necessary to survive the month. And graphs that prove that in these private schools implementing the public programme prescribed by the State What is most important is that today there was a fear that it would not happen like in Austria, that young people might be miseducated, but the Ministry has the power to control these schools, these public institutions, both public and private. [[…]] But there is inspection, there are surveillance services that allow it. But we're going around in some vicious circle, because if all of this worked out well, obviously in this country we wouldn't even have exploited workers in the Los Valley, and we know what an affair it was, and there the Inspectorate somehow failed. It was said he went to elite private schools. I'd like to see a graph to prove it. I'm sure these private schools have data just like the public, who their parents are, to see who's in these schools. In these schools, children come mainly from large families. This is also another measure of non-execution of the Constitutional Court's decision, the pressure on large families to avoid such education and simply push it to the other side. As was the case with the abolition of scholarships under the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, children's allowances are over 18 years of age. We're talking about how we protect the social state. I don't know who you're protecting, but for those who really need a social state that's at the bottom of poverty, it's certainly not that kind of protection, but it's walking into even greater agony, and people literally don't know what they'd do, how they'd turn to get through the month. Minister, you have the full responsibility not to prevent this agony, so we will vote in favour of your resolution today on our own behalf and on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Today's debate is about disrespecting the Constitutional Court's decisions and failing the rule of law, which is kind of a cancer wound to this government. The fluid rule of law that we have, we citizens, crawl out of our hands, because the law is not respected, the rules are not respected and the rules are not implemented. The foundation is the right to limit the will of the sovereign. We have stepped forward in Slovenia with this government. Not only is he disrespected, he takes on the law. There are two main problems. One is the non-implementation of existing legislation, which would draw attention to the enforcement of legislation at all levels, from primary to higher education. But I see an even bigger problem in the field of research. Failure to do what the law already requires. Drawing funds from cohesion funds is a major problem of research work at universities. It could also raise the issue of financing under the Inventions Act, namely the issue of financing the support environment for technology transfer. We see that at the time of the digitisation of society, a good part of information technology is transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration, making it impossible for research institutes and institutions to work. Here we miss the stronger work of the ministry to stand up to another ministry and stand up for those who are in their ministry of development. Not to mention a third activity, a sport where I expect greater transparency in spending and the revision of the use of infrastructure, the organisation of events and the work with young people. The common denominator is therefore the non-implementation of legislation and the financing of all activities. It would be better if we discussed the quality of implementation, not whether it will be public or private. The quality and enforcement of laws that already allow for this kind of implementation is essential. For all of this, it is right to discuss this subject and to highlight the problems that are pressing for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Thank you, Dr. Dobovšek. Mr. Franz Breznik, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think that where colleague Dobovšek concluded his debate, I could continue. I don't want to say it again. So let's look at today's debate, which has been going on until now, the time is literally 13.05, and we have a few hours of debate. Let us therefore see how the debate went on and what the evidence was and what the argument was against by the Minister and also some Members, both the opposition and the coalitions, which defended the failure to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. First case, let's take a look at the Minister's response: The Constitutional Court ruled from 5 to 4. This is therefore the basis for failing to respect the Constitution, the constitutional provision or the constitutional judgment. Five to four has decided. So we passed a law, and 20 SDS Members were against, so as an SDS Member I come to the street and I don't have to respect this law, because there were still 20 Members against it. This is either an argument or an argument that does not hold up normal judgment, respected colleagues. Continuation. Spreading ideology through a private school system. Let me tell you what ideology was spread by 0.7% of private primary schools and, say, 3% of secondary schools. Let me know which ideology they were spreading. Give me the ideologies they're spreading. But we know exactly the opposite of public primary school. Let us remember the relativization of the crimes of the former Communist authorities, the dress of various pioneers in primary schools, taking them literally as a tool in the form of some indoctrination. The Minister, as far as I know, has never responded to such matters as she should have said. What he's doing is, say, Germany, where they're taking the kids to the morgues to show them what one of the totalitarians was doing. But let me come back. Mate Matić said, "We don't have to respect the Constitution, because you too, when you were in power, did not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court." Total lie. Even in the case of deleted, the Slovenian Democratic Party has always, even in its full mandate, tabled legislative proposals for constitutional law all the time, as you know, and we need to adopt constitutional law with a constitutional majority, Comrade Matić. We've been making suggestions. Even colleagues Grimes announced – if you look at the footage, I think you even have on YouTube – what will happen if we do not adopt constitutional law and what will happen in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. And that's exactly what happened. But we've been making laws all the time, and we've been respecting the constitutional decision. We respected her, whatever she was. Continuation. The influence of the Catholic Church in Slovenia as some indoctrination of our students in private primary schools, where the whole initiative to the Constitutional Court went from one of the Catholic high schools, which also has a primary school. The interest that follows is in two or two of the consequences that we know. The first interesting thing was that at least two years ago, we received for the first time, by a private university, an acceptable scale of quality of primary and secondary schools based on later success in enrolment into high school or on the basis of golden graduates, how many they had and on the basis of all this. What did we find out? Since that smallness, including high school, two Catholic high schools have been occupied, so they have been equivalent or better if we look at that as just 3% representation, the cities at the top. This is also the case with these minimum primary schools, 0.7%, if evaluated, are of top quality. That was the problem. The problem was competition, and the problem was a mirror image of what can be done with the 85% funding of that public policy programme. Then there is the problem of school unions and so-called principals schools, which monopolize and place their handlers in their own will and so on. The second part of the indoctrination I spoke of earlier. It is also important to recall the history of this school system as it originated. When you talk about the Slovenian Catholic Church, you have to remember who even built our former elite. Who was responsible for the fact that we received a university in Ljubljana in 1919 or, before that, compulsory primary education in the time of Mary Teresa and everything else? This would not have been the case if it had not been for the Catholic Church, if it had not been for the priest Luke Knaflja – who died in 1671 and was born in Ribnica as our colleague Tanko – who had set up Knaflje’s institution as the oldest Slovenian institution for the education of then-Cranian students in Vienna. That was the basis of our intellectual elites. So the Catholic Church was the most deserving. Let me just tell you who got the scholarships and who could have stayed in Knafljeva. Today he is Knaflje's scholarship, and we are also talking about the so-called Fellowship of Dr. Henrik Tume. Just remember Jerne Kopitar, France Prešern, Simon Jenk, Ivan Tavčar, Henrik Tuma, Tribal and Melika as a geographer. All these people were then educated at the centre of Central Europe, at the intellectual and cultural centre of Vienna. All of them have transferred this international spirit to Slovenia. That's why we got the great Slovenians. Miklošič became the Rector of the University of Vienna in Vienna and so on. So we had an elite who had been educated for 300 years on the Danube-Budapest-Krakow route and so on and then Paris. At that time, the market of spirits, the market of intellectual spirits with different cultural aspects, and this means competition, this means a different approach to the problem, including in scientific debates, in scientific problems, in scientific study, respected colleagues. This spirit market must also start at the primary school level. Remember our primary school education, our indoctrinations, those we were born in 1970, which we already went to primary school in the 1970s. Let's say finger-pointing where the developed socialist state, where capitalism was rotting. When I asked as a child why no German, Austria and Switzerland went to work in Yugoslavia, if socialism was to develop here, of course there was no answer. Why is everyone running into this rotten capitalism? There was no answer. Who asked my father to give me a pioneer cap in elementary school? Who took me against my will in the Socialist Youth of Slovenia? And those same teachers, that same spirit still lives in these schools. This same spirit still lives in these schools. That's the problem. The problem is that private education runs into some kind of doctrine that still rules here. The same ones who advocate the same school system, that is, the public, teach their children in elite schools, even elementary schools abroad. They go to high school abroad and to private colleges in America. They're defending public health. Milan Kučan, the first time he had a health problem, went abroad for surgery. The late Janez Drnovšek is abroad. Janez Janša as the Prime Minister did not go to the Clinical Center in Ljubljana at the time of the hen spill, but went to Maribor to show that he trusted the Slovenian system. Colleagues, when it comes to the nation, then you offer him everything in public. But when it comes to yours, to you and to your family members, you live, not on public, but on private, all that the private sector has created. I once said this here, and I also believe that everything we have before us came about because people have been thinking differently. This Western civilization was created because they were thinking differently because of the collision of these spirits. Today we wouldn't have lights, we wouldn't have iPads, we wouldn't have had iPhones, we wouldn't be talking in Phillips' microphones and everything. All of this came about because public and private education cooperated with hand in hand and people had a free decision. In Slovenia, however, in 2016, on the basis of the debates you have, so much spirit, so narrow, very modest debates you have, spiritually, we show that we will never accept this breakthrough in scientific excellence, because in such a small population of people you destroy in their most sensitive period, that is, primary school where you have special talents and where private education could just detect these talents in a different way. How many people here who advocate publicly have their children enrolled in Waldorf schools? Also full of colleagues of socialists has their children at the Sofia High School, both in Maribor and in Ljubljana. That's where this thing comes in. I don't want to talk about their names. I know a lot of people, and I don't want to expose them because I'm a fair man, but what I'm trying to say is that healthy competition has to be. There must be a conflict of spirits, as we say. This must exist, dear fellows. That 0.7% of private education will destroy the public school system, colleagues, is one abnormal ideology and the abnormal state that you are currently discussing. But we will destroy our future. Let us also remember the spirit in which our students, who are in public primary schools – the theory of sex, Christianophobia, secularization – are being raised, that we are not talking about the continuous relativization of the former system to praise democratic socialism, which is supposed to work - I do not know where - and so on. This is all a problem. The problem is that private education sets up a mirror. This is a private education problem. Dear colleagues, what we are talking about today is that someone else has violated the Constitution, and we can now violate it, or that we do not need to establish this legal basis within some normal time frame, is unacceptable to me. This is precisely what this lobby, which exists in Slovenia, shows this monopolisation in the whole area – in the health system, in the school system, in the media space, in the economic system through state-owned companies. All of this points to some sadness, some Slovenian specialty, and shows that we are taking the future here for many generations. Another nonsense you've been making about socially endangered young people all the time, so what does it mean to go to private school? If a law were adopted in such an area as the Constitutional Court had set up, then someone from a socially weak family had the choice to go to a public school that might be more written or could have an impact on the rise of his talent. Someone is better in mathematics, someone is better in foreign languages, the third is better in geography, the fourth is better in music and so on. Many private schools are more specialised in some areas. Mate Matić explains about Austria. I don't know how long you've been in Austria, except you've been walking around and maybe smuggling coffee and some kind of computer in the old communist days. I've lived alone for over five years in Vienna. How do they view Vienna as a private school system? First of all, it's elitism. They have a whole range of American primary schools, foreign primary schools, Catholic primary schools, where it is also possible to get, say, some of the money from special scholarships, even for primary schools, and then for secondary schools, so that extremely talented children can be educated there. In the American kindergarten in Vienna, at least three languages are spoken passively by children at least five years of age. Such an American kindergarten now exists in Zagreb, in all major cities and so on. I want to say that the choice in a country that has a democratic majority of thinking must be put first. Last but not least, Article 57 of the Constitution states that education is free. Parents must have free choice, of course, until the current program. Private schools, those supported by the Ministry, also have a public programme and implement it. As the colleague said before, of course there are institutions like the inspectorate that controls it. I don't see any problem here. Today we are dealing with some fundamental notion of what free choice means, what competition means, and what a conflict of spirits means, which is the basis of a serious country that wants to have some products with high added value and in a small population of people to find its best talents. We also find our best talents by looking for different approaches to each and every individual in the educational process. This is precisely what you are restricting today because you were the product of this communist unit, the communist educational system, and with this one mind, you are destroying the future of the younger generations of people and individuals. That is the essence of today's debate in Parliament. I want you to put your arguments against what I'm saying, why we need private education, why we need competition, healthy competition, why we need different approaches. Many of mankind’s problems in science were solved by people who went outside the regular school system. John Lennon never finished the music academy, but today he's one of the geniuses of music, and you all love listening to him. Is that why he was worse? Not to mention all the other scientists who have had many problems in the regular school system and may have been trained into a private school system and have succeeded. Of course it's the other way around. We can't say that top scientists didn't come from either the regular or the public school system. But you have to act with your hands in your hands. There can be no positive discrimination against the public school system. We can't talk about a private school system, indoctrination, poverty, poor quality and so on. Who can judge that? Are we all part of the public school system, or is it someone who gives the criticism that tried one system and another? In the best or those countries around us, with whom at least in our dreams we would like to compare with those with the highest standards, their citizens and citizens have a combination of private and public and well-functioning. In America, the best university of state, if we go to university education, there's only a tenth town. So the first nine are private. This indicates that your claims and your arguments do not hold up and that the normal Western world functions completely differently, past Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues. It shows this modesty of debate, it shows that there is a small-minded magnificence that we have in our heads, a diapazone that we cannot spread, because we are still trapped in some space, and we think that Europe and the world are conflicting around us. But we'll all be evading ourselves slowly. Here too, we will reduce the possibility of joining or integrating our primary schools, secondary schools, university-educated individuals into some global space of the world and Europe. Today we need to understand what time and space we live in, respected colleagues and colleagues. We live in a global world. Our staff, our graduates, our graduates must face up to the challenge of global competition, in times of incredible inventions, incredible connections, incredible digital transformations and so on. We were ahead of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and we would have entered it with the school system of Josip Visarionovich Lenin. But that's not going to work, my respectable colleagues. That's not going to work. That is the essence of today's debate. Today's debate is the foundation. It is based on respect for the Constitution, on respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, on the basis that private education is accepted, on the basis that competition is established in this area, on the basis that parents and children are given a different choice, and, finally, on the basis of the foundation, respected colleagues and colleagues, to live a better life, a more open life, free. Even though we have different perspectives on a particular problem and have different solutions, we tolerate these solutions and that one solution wins, one another. In the case of the private school system, I will support the intervention against the Minister, precisely because it seems to me that she has had enough time since January 2015 since the decision of the Constitutional Court was officially published. The formation of the status quo and the inactivity in this area are the basis for interpolation. Not to mention the second phase, the dual school system that is urgently needed, which could again be discussed for the next interpretation. For example, the Austrians said that if a dual school system falls, even the economy falls and are poor within ten years. However, we are still in the middle of secondary school vocational education in 1970, at a time when we adopted targeted education. Actually, we never really put that down. That's where he stays. But that's not the basis for today's interpretation against the secretary. The foundation is disrespect for the Constitution, and that's the basis. If the Constitution is not respected by someone acting as Minister of Education, who also represents the highest intellectual minister, then it is sad. This is the sad image of Slovenia in 2016, the sad image of a government or some coalition that managed to win the elections by bringing political competition to prison, by working in the first few months to get one of its fellow Members out of Parliament, for which the Constitutional Court has always told you that it is not true. Even today, you accuse people who are innocent, you accuse them publicly again here in Parliament. That's the sadness, that's your understanding of democracy. I don't blame you because this very understanding of democracy comes from that school system you're defending today. That's the whole point. You're defending the school system because you didn't try any better. As an old proverb put it, a man who has spent his life watching a horse's tail will never see a horse's tail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u36	Thank you, too. Replica, Dr. Matić. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, chairman. But I must answer Mr. Breznik a little. He was talking about a malo-mind. Sam is the ambassador of arrogance and shame when he accuses me of knowing Austria only because of my alleged smuggling of coffee or cigarettes, or what Mr. Breznik accused me of. I don't feel the need, like he does at every other session or third session, when he performs, to explain how he worked in a factory abroad — it seems to me that in Siemens or elsewhere — and he is so fascinated by these times that he keeps repeating this wonderful experience of his life over and over again. Mr. Breznik, I was in Vienna for a year at the Institute für Österreichische Geschichtsforschung. That's where I went to college and Austria and Vienna, and I know very well. As a matter of fact, I lived there for a year. If you want to know how I know Austria, I can explain it to you kindly and not with some underestimating insinuations like you. As for your claims, however, how hard you have worked in your mandate. Yes, you have filed constitutional laws that have the sole intention of circumventing the Constitutional Court's decision. The only one. So it's no wonder you didn't get two thirds in the National Assembly. Later, a man came who managed to do so. And what did he get to thank you for? That you've been interpreting him. Having complied with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This is your mirror and this is a certificate of the relationship of SDS to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mrs. Vesna Vervega, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the ministries, the Government, colleagues and fellow Members. In my debate, I will define some of the arguments that my colleague, Beznik, had previously asked about. I would, however, point out in the opening that none of the current discussers of the Modern Centre Party claimed that the decision would not be taken into account. Finally, this proves that the amendment of the law is already in inter-departmental coordination. Second thing. Nor did we say that it would destroy the public in private. We do not represent this or consider that this will not happen or will not happen. The relationship between public and private has been established or regulated by the 1995 White Paper, including by allowing private schools to raise and educate parents in accordance with specific religious or moral beliefs. So this is the department, the minister and also the modern centre Party we have been defending from the very beginning. However, allowing a private initiative has never been unconditional. Restrictive conditions between others apply only or exclusively to the quality of education programmes, in particular private schools. I have repeatedly highlighted this in my discussions so far, and I will point out once again, which is not essentially a distinction between the applicants in the content of the interpretation. In fact, this will also be an answer to colleague Dimic, who earlier spoke about the implementation of the same public programme by all, both private and public schools. I mean, it's kind of not true. Public education programmes shall be adopted by the Minister in cooperation with the competent professional council and shall be obtained by private schools and formulated by the Minister as their proponents. The content and procedure for adopting such a programme shall be laid down in the Act establishing a particular school, i.e. this private school. Therefore, it is not necessarily the same subject, the same programme, but the same educational standard must be ensured, or things must be in line with the objectives set out in Article 2 of the ZOVFI, which is confirmed by the expert council. In one of the chambers that came out as a reaction to the Constitutional Court’s decision, entitled Private Education for the Common Good, we can read – page 23, mag. Miha Skubic, Private education and the constitutional dilemma – that all fears about private schools can be satisfactorily resolved at the legal level. Next: "It is possible to agree that the current regime, which does not lay down high quality and other criteria for the recognition of the public validity of educational programmes, is flawed before the founders of private schools. It is in the common public or social interest that young generations receive a quality basic education." The Minister also strengthens the above-mentioned levers, which the Ministry is supposed to have to address with these proposals of the novel. As far as we are concerned, I would like to respond to another one, mentioned in the interpretation itself, which is that parents of compulsory children have been unjustifiably paying tuition for their children since 1996, which is, of course, one of the reasons for eliminating unconstitutionality, and that discrimination should also be the responsibility of the Minister. However, as far as I am aware, school fees have not been paid since 1996, since most of the private schools of the primary school programme have not been carried out at that time, except of course for the Waldorf School, which has a concession and is 100 per cent funded since 1991. The data show that the Alojzi Šustjar primary school has been implementing a public programme since the 2008/2009 school year, the Montessori Institute since 2011/2012, the Waldorf School Maribor 2015 and the new educational institution Anton Martina Slomška, the Montessori Elementary School since last year. Also, all these schools do not charge tuition from the start of their operations. Why, then, do parents pay or pay tuition? Is it just to pay for the implementation of the mandatory part of the programme? If so, then the prohibition of charging fees proposed essentially eliminates this discrimination and should not present a problem. The Constitutional Court also made it very clear in paragraph 25 of the sentence: "The right to attend a compulsory public school curriculum free of charge does not require the State to finance the implementation of superstandard or expanded content, with which private schools pursue their partial interests." Otherwise, I must say that I cannot agree with the "free" dictatorship on my own, because our school is not actually free and is publicly financed from public funds. That's me. Therefore, the fact that parents of compulsory children continue to pay school fees unjustifiably since 1996 is not as uniform as they would like to show it and is even less directly responsible for it. And maybe another aspect I'd like to highlight. We have heard several times that we have a small share of private education in Slovenia and also in Europe. We also read this in the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, many times it is unclear what a private school is, what the definition of a private school is. Is that the school that is financed by private capital or the school established by a private legal entity? The definition of a private school within the OECD speaks of private schools which are independent and can receive less than 50% of public funds for their operation and can also receive more than 50% of public funds. Where can we now place or place our private schools with concessions, our private schools, which we are talking about now, these are private schools without concessions that are not included in the public schools network? What, then, is a private school? I'm gonna finish up here somehow. It is true that the Minister has taken a little more time to implement the Constitutional Court decision, for which the Constitutional Court has laid down the time limit set, but that does not mean, as I said in the introduction, that this decision will not be implemented and taken into account. It is also important to bear in mind that, in addition to the financial aspect, the other solutions I have talked about must be taken into account, and my colleagues will. As already pointed out in our position, the position of the Modern Centre's Group of the Parties would be much more appropriate today's interpretation debate if its proponents regularly and in good time met some others and more clearly defined decisions of the Constitutional Court. However, I will also somehow relate to my colleague Kustec Lipicer, who read or said the opening position that sometimes it is good to set each other's political mirror in such discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vervega. Mr Lisec, I give you my word as a motioner, followed by Madam Minister. Mr. Fox, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u41	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Apparently, the classic stories of the coalition representatives will be two. One is to set up a mirror, and the other is that the government has put the bill into intersectoral coordination. With regard to the mirror, we have already stated twice that we have resolved the 2002 constitutional decision concerning same-sex spouses in at least some way in the 2005 law. With regard to deleted persons, we have already taken the initiative for constitutional law several times, and you have rejected it. Dearest, 9. It entered into force on 1 last year for the application of the decision of the Constitutional Court. During this time, we have twice proposed the law of the SDS Group, and you have rejected it. 8. This year's 9th, we're filing an interpolation and it's supposed to be – the minister will probably later confirm – 2. 11. Some law in inter-departmental coordination. You know how long it's been since 9. 1. and 2. 11th? Almost two years. If this is the rate of compliance with a decision of the Constitutional Court that gave time to one year, then the Minister has a problem in the first place, because it is obvious that officials do not do their job, and this is to read a decision of the Constitutional Court that is fairly short and very clear over the weekend and write the law. We believe that this interpellation has also forced both the Minister and probably the President of the Government, who is probably still unhappy at the various ends of our country, because the decision has not yet been included in the legal dictatorships of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In short, this interpellation of ours is obviously a crucial reason for them to move in at the Ministry. For, as it is said, the material which was published on E-democracy in April this year did not solve the issue recorded by the Constitutional Court decision. In short, if we have to interpellate in the SDS Group because the government and the coalition are breaking the laws, then we will invest them because the interpretation is also intended to do so. If the Government does not do or, even worse, violates the Constitutional Court's decisions, there must be some mechanisms to force those in the ministries who obviously have a lot of problems with how to bypass the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Dear colleague Verveg, I very much like your debate on education. I see you're an expert and I respect that, but we're not talking about superstandards. You have read this part of the 25th point, where the right to visit the public programme free of charge does not require that the implementation of superstandard or extended programmes be financed. But it was the initiators who said they didn't even expect it. They say: "The content of the compulsory public-level primary education programme financed by public funding is uniformly established for all primary education providers. The content differences in the principles under which private or public schools act as institutions only appear in extended education programmes that are not financed by public funds and are therefore not subject to this initiative." We are already saying this that we have problems only because the Government does not follow this decision of the Constitutional Court when we are talking about publicly applicable programmes. We, too, agree to leave the debate to the poor – the rich, who goes somewhere, which primary and secondary schools. If some school remembers some super circle, parents should pay for it. Of course, we have the problem of whether we are talking about equality of children here, but also in primary schools, one parent drives a child with a Mercedes, and there are children who are barely paid by their parents for transportation or lunch. So here we talk about how public everyone is the same, but when we talk about private, we have a problem, or even those who are purely average citizens, or privacy is intended only for some super rich uncles who can educate their children better. That's not true. It's just private. What's above standard is that parents pay. I think that we all probably agree here in this national council that not only some items, but also some equipment and maintenance. If parents want to afford it in private school, they should pay for it. But we are talking about the issue of public programmes, which, in our view, should be the same for everyone – not only because of the Constitutional Court's decision, but because of some general understanding. The only thing that holds us in the decision of the Constitutional Court is that these programmes are also financed by 100% and not 85%. Today we are arguing about this 15%, in these three, four schools, because we know what the decision is, what the constitution is, and in the meantime we are talking about what is the problem in our primary schools. And Vervega's colleague said well what everything should be, and her colleague Bachič said what she expected the minister to do, but then she was totally out of line, which is crucial, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, you're complicating this 15 per cent, as if we didn't know that the primary school is compulsory and free after the constitution. But we know how free it is. It is completely pointless to talk today about how we will systematically solve this, and you see the problem in what the Constitutional Court has written to you, and you see the problem since April this year, that is, after four months of delay in the decision of the Constitutional Court. And once again I will confirm that if Dr. Miro Cerar is really such a legal expert as you have or have him for, and if we wrote a bill in the SDS Group within three, four days, I would easily write it myself. It is not, however, that we are in November 2016, more than 20 months after the decision of the Constitutional Court. If he is such a lawyer who can't write it or ask a minister or a team to write such a law as the Constitutional Court's decision, then the biggest problem is not this coalition and opposition, but the post of Prime Minister of the Government. Don't talk about constitutional law if it doesn't even respect the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u42	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. After a few discussions, however, let me also provide some information and clarifications on these issues and points. First of all, it is true that the proposal for a law is transmitted in inter-sectoral coordination and also in the coalition work in accordance with procedures, as I have already announced. At the same time, let me also say that, of course, it follows the saying of a constitutional decision, as stated above, and supports this sentence at all points. Of course, it is also in the way that the commitment is made in marriage. At the same time, I should also inform the assembly that there are several schools in the process of setting up three primary schools and one music school. This is, of course, a big increase compared to past years. In response, however, I would focus on the interlinked element that you have all highlighted in your thoughts and visions. That's quality. The quality of education, education, including science, research that connects us all together in the responsibility of, of course, taking care of the development of each individual in society by empowering him with knowledge as much as possible. Therefore, let me answer that it is particularly at the level of a nine-year-old, caring for the quality of the one that lays the foundation for the basic knowledge of every child, the youth. To this end, we are developing the KEKS system, which is also the basis for systematic further evaluation and is based on already existing evaluation elements. Why am I talking about this? Because it also provides us with a starting point for international comparability, which is important, regardless of whether we are talking about the public or private part of education. At the same time, let me also say that many activities are also defined in the power of the teacher, simply because it is at the heart of cohabitation in the teacher-parent-children triangle, which, at the same time with their good cooperation, also ensure good implementation and quality cooperation in achieving the learning goals. Finally, special attention is also given to talented people during this period. Whether we are in public or private work again, talented people are those who, of course, develop Slovenian society and make a special contribution to it, so we also have before us a project to establish centres for talented people. The Roma issue and specific needs were also mentioned. In the same way, we deal with these two topics, again in the spirit of quality, equality, non-discrimination and, above all, to listen to the child, as one who, when entering school, knows and can achieve his or her goals. Research and science. What we need to stress is a series of instruments that are being developed at the moment precisely to provide the most accessible, qualitative and evolving incentives to all those who want to achieve the above-standard results and, of course, to contribute to Slovenia's co-operation in the scientific research area in the world – from incentives to young researchers at the start of their careers, we are investing 10 million euros; to joining Cerno; to research infrastructure that we are particularly rich in the eastern part; to, this is also the response of one of the MEPs, the so-called TTO, technology offices, which will be based on the so-called support environment, again to achieve quality and visibility, to the quality of the transfer of knowledge that is generated in the scientific research work. And perhaps a special area that concerns not only sports, but probably a healthy spirit in a healthy body for the whole of Slovenia. A healthy lifestyle is a project that we would like to empower not only in systemic thinking but also in the application of education programmes. It has included over 30,000 children for several years, and this is the basis for the development of sport that we all need, especially in relation to healthy life. And, of course, provide sports infrastructure. We therefore propose that as much of the calls as possible in the limited financial framework be made for the local community. Why am I answering like this right now? Because the quality element that we often point out is not only the domain of funding itself, it is the domain of the kind of commitment, but in particular the mission of those who build the school field, especially those who contribute every day to not only empowering but also ensuring the future for children. For this reason, we have also approached the proposal for a law that is now under consideration in terms of the enforcement of the Constitutional Decision, socially up to date, in line with the prevailing situation and also the future challenges facing this Slovenian society as well as all other European and wider nations. Why am I stressing this? If, in principle, the implementation of quality conditions for the implementation of educational programmes is not ensured, then, of course, we will not achieve those common goals that we are all committed to, for which all of you are already committed today, and which are also in all the reflections that we have for the further development of education, science, research and sports in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Porotat, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u45	Excuse me. [[microphone is not enabled]] Madam Vice President, I thank you for your word. Nice greeting, distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues and others present at today's session! Today we are discussing the intervention against Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič for responsibility for non-action and delay in the preparation of the amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which would follow the decision of the Constitutional Court. We are therefore considering this interpretation because of the failure to comply with the Constitutional Court decision. The non-implementation of decisions is not only this decision that has not been implemented, but we have 12 decisions that have not been implemented, and I therefore believe that this non-implementation of the decision is not the root cause of today's interpretation, but that it is of other interests. It's about private education and it's about public education. It is therefore a matter of whether we will have an accessible quality public education for all in Slovenia or not. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we advocate a high-quality and free primary education for all children. The interviewers shall state to the Minister that she has not acted on the request of the Constitutional Court, which in its decision of 4 December 2014 decided that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to public-applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. In doing so, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court’s decision did not agree that five judges voted in favour of such a decision, but four out of nine were against it. The decision was therefore not unanimous and I therefore believe that it is necessary to consult separate opinions at today's meeting. Therefore, I will read to you the rejection of a separate opinion of the Constitutional Judge Dr. Etelka Korpič - Horvat, not even, but of the individual paragraphs that seem important to me. On the first page, under the third point of Dr. Etelka Korpic – Horvat wrote: "On the contrary, I do not believe that the Constitution requires," so it does not require that "primary education must be fully financed from public funds, so that primary education is necessarily free of charge. I do not believe that the Constitution requires this for both public and private schools. In particular, the Constitution does not require "children's rights". This is also not actually true because parents pay for textbooks and other tools and activities that fall within the framework of the public programme." So this is a broader problem that is also worth considering. If we have written in the Constitution that primary education is free, it should be really free, but I hope we get there. Then I would read on page 6 point 15 of Dr. Etelka Korpic – Horvat. "The Constitutional Court has already replied to the question whether the State is obliged to fully finance only public schools. U-I-68/98 of 22 November 2001, when the 21st recital stated: «The legislator's decision to finance the state as a whole only public schools in which all parents can enter their children is in the field of its assessment and therefore it is not contrary to the Constitution.» I repeat, it is not contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, if I conclude, the decision of the Constitutional Judges is different or inconsistent. I would also mention that we responded to the Constitutional Court's decision by Members Desus, SD and the United Left with an initiative to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal to amend Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is set out in the order in which the Constitution would read: "Education in public primary schools is financed by public funds and education in private primary schools can be financed in terms of scale and conditions and in terms of level as provided by law." This funding would therefore be left to the law. Under this proposal, State funding for primary education would be explicitly applicable to public schools and the financing of private primary schools would be left to the law. In the proposal to amend the Constitution, the applicants state that primary education under the Constitution would be compulsory in public schools, while the legislator would have the opportunity to regulate private primary schools, as I have already said, in law. However, I regret to conclude that the implementation of this proposal has stalled. That is why I expect you, Madam Minister, to make sure that this process continues and that it ends with the amendment to the Constitution. Let me do it again. In the Desus Group we advocate a public, equally accessible quality primary education. Such arrangements are in most European countries. Today this has already been mentioned here, and I would just like to remind you that Italy, for example, does not spend a cent on private school funding, Austria, for example 75%, Germany, as we have heard, from 70 to 93%, if I am not mistaken, I am referring to it. Allow me to finally express my opinion on the sentence that was made today in this National Assembly: the decision is binding and final. This is what Mrs Novak said today in the position of the New Slovenia Group. The honourable Member, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, also reiterated this sentence and added that this must be respected. It is true that I agree that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected, but the question is raised that the Constitutional Court does not take its decisions in a uniform manner or that it adopts different positions, that the judges have different opinions and that the Constitutional Court, as a whole, also takes different decisions at different times. Here I would point out that the Constitutional Court, by its 2001 decision, decided that the financing of public and private schools is different in accordance with the Constitution. In 2001, the Constitutional Court therefore decided that different financing was in accordance with the Constitution. By a decision in 2014, the same Constitutional Court amended its opinion and decided that the first sentence of Article 86(2) of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes is inconsistent with the Constitution. In a couple of years, it's such a different opinion. As a lawyer, what am I supposed to think about the work of this constitutional court? Let me say I'm worried. When citizens face such different decisions of the Constitutional Court and Constitutional Judges, of course we become concerned. Through this we also lose confidence in the right and truth – pardon, justice and truth – and the fair decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Procedurally, the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u47	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs Kotnik obviously did not listen to my opening presentation, so, Madam Vice-President, please, given that Mrs Kotnik Popot is a lawyer to deliver a 2001 decision to her and then apologize to us as proponents and Slovenian public for lying or deceiving her. I'll explain it one more time. The 2013 Constitutional Court Decision refers to private primary schools and discusses the financing of publicly applicable programmes. However, the 2001 decision distinguishes only public and private education. But why is there a difference? Because we have a Constitution, a respected lady lawyer, who in the second paragraph of Article 57 says: "Basic education is compulsory." That's the difference, Your Honor. It is not the same matter and the other composition or decision of the Constitutional Court. Honourable Vice-President, solely because she is a lawyer, I propose that a 2001 Constitutional Court decision be transmitted to her so that the Lady of Law will know what she is reading and will not lie and deceive. Then I'll report back as a motioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Porotat heard your comment. Here you are, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u49	You see, Madam Minister, it is not a problem for us to interpellate, the problem is your coalition partners, who will probably never allow the Constitutional Court's decision to take place in this case. The closer you get to the realization of the Constitutional Court, the closer you will be to this species and the further away you will be from that kind. In the end, however, it will have to be counted and the key votes of the Modern Centre Party will have to decide whether to comply with the Constitutional Court and the President's decision or not. And I'll keep going. Let's just let the lady be a lawyer. Madam lawyer said we still have some non-executive decisions of the Constitutional Court. Who has been in all governments since 2002? The only DeSUS, so the only one of you is wrong to talk about how inapplicable decisions of the Constitutional Court are because you're always in the coalitions. This can be enjoyed by the United Left, who are here for the first time, the SMC, who are here for the first time, the SDS and this side were both a coalition and the opposition, but DeSUS is always in government. And today, most of your lawyers will talk about how we have non-executive decisions of the Constitutional Court. Very unfair, distinguished president, who also comes from Desus. Dear Mrs Kotnik Poropat, there is no other interest but to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. It's a topic that reaches both public and private. You spoke about how you expect the Minister to give the SMC a green light to the party, so that the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will continue with the draft constitutional law. See what you wrote in this text: "To prevent interference at constitutional level with autonomy and the global visual neutrality of primary education." We can have a special session on neutrality, and you'll see. The key thing you write down is, "to eliminate the unconstitutionality that five judges of the Constitutional Court have found in the decision." You propose to eliminate the unconstitutionality that five judges of the Constitutional Court have found in the decision. I expect a non-educated citizen to say this, not a member of the National Assembly in this National Assembly, which is also a lawyer after the summit, and even to sign it to propose that the unconstitutionality identified by the five judges of the Constitutional Court be carried out. Dear Mrs Kotnik Poropat, there was no unanimous decision. If we propose to the SDS Group, not only because we are now in opposition, but in general that no decision of the National Assembly shall apply if it is not taken unanimously, will you support it? Will you support her? In short, something is a hypocrisy, and something is actually a condition. There were 5 to 4 votes in the Constitutional Court. Like many things in the National Assembly, the Constitutional Judges have the right to vote on their conscience. If you wanted to read one decision, I could read another, which is a legally separate opinion of one judge, but this is the judge who has to leave the Constitutional Court and you will replace it with a left-wing constitutional judge. I am interested, not only in those who are lawyers in the coalition, in how you comment on this article. "Policy postpones the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them. In presenting last year's work, the President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Mozetič, warned the court that politics has been in place for the past two years," but when it is not in the power of the SDS, we must say that there will be no problem again, "it will simply be delayed by the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them. This is very problematic in terms of the rule of law, especially if non-execution is conditioned politically or ideologically." That's why it's about this thing. Not to tell us who we want to get, after the Constitutional Court's decision, 0.7% of private primary schools have a right, but this is in the last two years on you, who obviously want it to go away. Instead of complying with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, you propose to initiate a procedure where you wish to eliminate the unconstitutionality that the five judges of the Constitutional Court have found in the decision because this decision has a grave impact on the system of primary education. You said we had to provide everyone with an accessible public education. Well, it does exist. I hope the secretary won't say it doesn't exist. I think we all agree that there is an accessible public education. How good it is and whether some bad teachers or a bad system are guilty, let us put aside. If it is a bad system, it is also our responsibility as Members. You said it had to be free. We're having another debate. I will begin with a proposal from the United Left Group, which wants something done. I recall the debate when I myself, as a professional co-worker on the initiative of the then and current leader of the Jožet Tanka Group, wrote the Law on the Subsidisation of the Student Diet, a so-called warm meal. And a Member of the Social Democrats in Parliament shouted that this was not candy. Now we must decide what we want to give our teachers and our children in schools – or the candy I hope we agree on, or say that because you are the wrong proponents, it is "like" hypocrisy. Now we have to decide whether it's gonna be all hypocrisy or if it's all candy. That's all we have to decide. But it's not that because someone else is a proponent, it's wrong to propose to me, but that would be the only way to do it. In short, really, not about it being five to four, please. We can then give another unanimous decision by the National Assembly, which perhaps even at the referendum people would vote to say that we are not leaving the Assembly Hall until we agree. For example – I apologize, Violeta, you are on the opposite side, but sometimes we have very diametrically opposite opinions – if we say, "You two change when you come together, it must apply, but not for a year, for a few years." People would even support that. Not that a 15-year-old member of the ruling coalition has always said that 5-4 is problematic. I find that very distasteful. But I've been in the National Assembly too long to listen to such slanders. Most people always win. I've been in the coalition, I know what it looks like, I'm in the opposition, I know what it looks like, I don't agree with most decisions, but I do, because you're on the majority side. I also ask the Members of this coalition to do so. Let me finish with Mrs. Kotnik Popot. As a lawyer, please tell me whether the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly is the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court. If you find me a document that says so, I apologize publicly. But until you find it, you're deceiving me not to say anything else, the Slovenian public. That is why I support the Minister's words, which says that the law will go in the direction of the Constitutional Court's decision, but once again I say, it will go in the direction of the Constitutional Court's decision, and more problems will be faced by the Minister in the coalition and not in the opposition. I'm going to say the words of Ludmila Novak, who once said, "It has to be counted." Five plus nineteen, and probably a colleague in the back, and if at least half of the SMC goes to the Constitutional Court's decision, we have the majority support of this law. I agree, I also said in the introduction that instead of having private and public schools, we should talk about whether we have quality and good public schools, and if they are bad, whether the problem is systemic or just bad equipment or some teacher who has become tired of his profession for such or other reasons. But in this term you are in coalition and you have scissors and linen in your hands in this area. Let me finish. Madam Minister and Madam Secretary of State, I hope that we see in the opposition, as soon as possible, a proposal for a law to confirm that, unlike many others, you do not say one thing and you are doing another. In short, as soon as the marriage is in the government and also the opposition ranks, we will trust and trust you first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u51	Let me begin by saying, Mr President, that the representative of the proposer should be warned, because he is moving on to personal matters, evaluating individuals or individuals, which I find to be unfair and unfair. On your part, I would expect you to warn him of this and not let him do this. If we are talking about a constitutional decision, then I must say that you are the right experts on that side, because Mr Lisec has always pointed to Desus, then to SD, perhaps he will be able to conclude some marriage contract along with SMC in order for something to be adopted. Let them arrange this outside, in the halls, and here in the hall, let us discuss the subject that we are about to discuss or that you have suggested. To evaluate with the title "left judges" for me means that someone does not control his area and that there is a left in that area. Did you think of anything different? At this point, I couldn't figure it out from your debate. The reading to Desus that it is in all governments is not right on your part, Your Honor. If we weren't in that government then and again soon, then you wouldn't be trying to sweeten the power. Now that you're telling us that we went to Spain with you, it's really unfair and unfair. That's when we went, we wanted to be state-of-the-art, we just wanted to sort things out with you. It's right that we didn't open up those that we might open if we weren't there. And five to four. These are the results of the vote and these are the test results of the vote. You can question that a little bit sometimes. I will end at this point because I am not discussing, but I just wanted to point out procedurally that, Mr Lisec, the Vice-President of the National Assembly should also warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša, in this National Assembly, personal attacks are not entirely new, but they are true. It's very easy for you to lie to your tongue, but then in the second part of the debate you corrected it a little bit, so let's say we took this into account that you felt that something was wrong. Mrs. Popotat, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u53	Thank you so much for the replica. I must say, Mr Lisec, that in this national assembly I do not agree with this manner of yours and that I, as a Member, can express my opinion, which is just as I see it. That you're here now attacking me, that I'm a lawyer, and that's why I can't do it, and that's why I just read the Constitutional Court's decision and told you how it was adopted. [[…]] Excuse me, if I'm going to a football game where Ljubljana gives Maribor one goal and Maribor none, I think it's just one such victory. But if there is a game and five goals for Maribor and Maribor nothing, then I say, "Look how good the Ljubljanaians are." This is also the case in the Constitutional Court, and we have nine judges and five judges to decide that way, and four of them are different. That's almost half. In 2001 it was one decision and in 2014 it was different. You're talking about some finesse, but it's basically public and private education funding. One more thing. These private schools are quality, and I have nothing against them in principle, but if someone sets up a private school, they have to finance it. However, if we are to equalize the financing of private and public education, I fear – this is my opinion, perhaps I am wrong – that this private education will be extended mainly in urban areas. Who will go to the countryside, to Kozjak, or, for example, to Osilnica, to set up a school? Now was an opportunity, and no one came forward to set up and carry out the elementary school in Osilnica. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a need for a little patience and listening in this national assembly. That was my opinion, and I have a right to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u55	As a proponent!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u56	As a proponent, I'm sorry, I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. Of course, patience, but it's hard for you to be patient if someone on the other side is lying. Dear Mrs Kotnik Poropat, you said it was almost half. Here we also have the results 40:39, almost half, but it always covers the majority. You doubt that this decision wasn't the right thing to do. Because then we can also question all other decisions in the Constitutional Court and within Parliament. Dear Mrs. Kotnik Poropat, you said finesse. As a lawyer, we should know more precisely that he is in finesse, as they say, the devil is hiding in detail. There's a lot of difference in the finesse. There was little fines between the 2001 and 2014 Constitutional Court decisions. There were a lot of them, and these fines, which were a lot of them, were the reason and reason why the initiators at the Constitutional Court were successful. You also said something about enlargement and that you can't, where it's public, set up a primary school, I suggest, a respected minister, not for us from the opposition, but that you tell the members of the coalition where you can, and especially where you can't set up a private school, because they obviously have some problems with the concept of a private primary school in each of you. Which is not true. So that I don't turn out to be a doctor, I know that the secretary with the coworkers has given you a precise definition of what and how I won't disturb you with any finesse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much. However, I would ask you, Mr Lisec, that you are a little less ad hominem and a little more ad rem, because there is no point in attacking an MP because he says what he thinks, and that is probably not prohibited. Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good day to you all! Today, the red thread is mainly that some are less private, while others are a little less for the public or any way we turn. But I'm going to touch it in one piece, and many people will think it's too local, and I say it's the opposite, national and even international. If you'll excuse me, in two words, I'll present my view of the situation. I come from a centre where we are, in principle, less inclined and more conservative to extend private education for several reasons, but this does not mean that we are against the private, that there will be no mistake. For I come from a region that has been in the past decades, to a great extent, if I may say so, of a cultural struggle. After 100 years, we came to learn and learn to coexist in an area that was relatively sensitive, historically viewed. There's 27. It says, "Gorishka got the academy." Then he continues: "The first academy established in Slovenia after 1945 and the first one established outside Ljubljana and operating outside the university there is the Academy of Arts of the University of Novi Gorica. They are also working for the Academy in Maribor, but not successful. Acquisition of a prestigious title to the content and implementation of study programmes has no impact but will enhance the reputation of the institution and strengthen its place. "That's exactly what I'd like to talk about. We are proud of the fact that we have the first academy since 1945 and the first academy, which is not in Ljubljana. But this is where our work begins. That is why I would also point out that we are talking about a private university, which has a much broader meaning, not only for the local community, but even for the Slovenian community as well as for the international community. Because this academy also cooperates with four others, these are peas, peas, and vitae. I am talking about the international dimension of this project, but we need to give it a ton of stability in particular. That is why this is my initiative, and I take this opportunity to present to you in some way what we are receiving in Goriška and how we can help here as a country so that at least this source of funding can be stable. Because I claim that this case of private education is of particular importance, because it has a broader cultural significance. I'm talking about how not only Slovenians visit these academyes, but foreigners do. The school or program takes place in the Slovenian language, which is very important at the symbolic level, is that it is physically present in old Gorica, as we like to say, in Italian Gorica, at the very centre of the video university. That is why I place my heart above all the awareness that such cases and such projects are worth all our attention, including by the State. That is why I would ask you, Madam Minister, further when you come to the floor, if you can define yourself on this issue, because I believe that it is not only for me personally and not only for the Primors, but for all Slovenians, both across the border and in Slovenia, this is important and crucial for the development of culture, education and Slovenia in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u61	If I may just answer that question because it's a broader question. This is a system of concessions, we are talking about the entire educational vertical. The Court of Auditors, as you know, has asked us to prepare, in a way, not only a systematic review, but also a definition of criteria for the award of concessions, especially in the higher education field. This also applies, of course, to understanding what concession as such means in our school space, such as the case you pointed out, as of course other cases. We are not only committed, but also, of course, obliged to submit to the Court of Auditors within an appropriate time frame a way of dealing with such problems, especially when it comes to granting concessions in a particular local or regional area which may give its particular meaning, as you yourself have pointed out. We need expert services, a working group, to come up with a proposal, which is also one of the commitments that we have actually received on the table to arrange for a systematic vision of the award of concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u63	All present and all those who follow us through the media. We all absolutely agree that education must be accessible to all, and of course it can only be so if it is publicly financed. That is why it is essential for us to clearly define the boundaries between private and public education. Public funding for private schools, both concessionary and non-concessionary, is totally unacceptable to us in the United Left. Universally accessible education must be provided by the State, otherwise we can never completely eliminate the threat of private education being dominated by public education. Such education is not universally available, but is selective on the basis of property, which strengthens class divisions for the poor and the rich, as it appears in the case of the United States, where they have one school system for the rich and the other for the poor. Then we have such great experts who sing them, who do not know what is going on outside their visible circle, who do not know the difference between Slovakia and Slovenia and so on. Of course, it is very easy to manipulate such students. The links between school success and the socio-economic conditions of the families in which children live are also increasingly evident. Worse than you are, your school success is worse, unfortunately, because these kids have worse access to libraries, to leisure activities, to circles and so on. In the case of our attempt to extend the circle of beneficiaries to free warm meals in schools, we have seen how difficult it is for a ruling politician to take the smallest steps towards eliminating these inequalities. In a country where millions of dollars are spent on military expeditions abroad, there are still thousands of children living in hunger and poverty who are still living under the price of selling our common hard-earned assets and making profits for private people. In short, this is not just about eliminating the possibility, it is mainly about ensuring equal opportunities for education for all children. A warm meal enables longer school stays, increased concentration in listening to material, and, of course, has an impact on better learning success. It is becoming increasingly evident, however, that success in school is also increasingly geographically determined. Children from urban centres have easier access to education than those from rural areas. Yet, unfortunately, we are witnessing the abolition of branch schools, which results in parents having to drive their children to remote places, usually on disastrously bad roads, and wasting valuable time on children to learn or to spend some pleasant moments in the family circle. The Ministry of Education closes branch schools and the President of the National Assembly opens ATMs in their offices. This case, which is absurd, but yet true, very well illustrates how capital strikes public schools. In a symbolic and other way. Public education has been under constant pressure by the private sector since its independence, and especially by the church. We had very high-quality public schools, although SDS Member Mr. Breznik feels that our debates are modest, especially spiritually modest – some have a hold on spirituality – that we are the products of a single mind and the like. Listen, we went to school for free, not for free. Just because we didn't go to school for free, we're here and we have the right to an opinion. It is the responsibility of the modern social state to ensure to each individual a purely publicly funded basic level of education. However, the aim of the privatisation and commercializers of public education is to take control of the socially valid values that have been in place in our society since the enlightenment. The last offensive in this area is the interpolation that we are dealing with today. It is symptomatic, however, that this interpolation does not even mention certain infringements, such as the Minister's permanent readiness allowance. At this point, I would ask the Minister to say something, because her responsibility is not small. She was not only a participant in illegal conduct or a recipient, but a part of the EF’s senior management. Maja Makovec Brenčič is in charge of reforming higher education and eliminating such and similar illegal and unfair practices, and I am afraid that they will already find some so-called systemic solution for legalising bonuses to management staff. On the other hand, last week before the government, we had demonstrations by the J Group in the public sector, such as cleaners, cooks in kindergartens, schools, servers in nursing homes, living under the poverty threshold despite full employment. These are the questions that are pressing and should be addressed. It is symptomatic that interpolation does not even mention science, which is one of the key highlights of the 2017 and 2018 budget, and, on the other hand, summer came the day that the ARRS did not sign up for the COFUND Marie Skodlowska-Curie Actions, where it could obtain funding of up to EUR 20 million. This would provide the ARRS with funding for the training of doctoral students in Slovenia and also for projects aimed at the mobility of individual researchers among institutions. What did the Ministry do? As we know, it didn't do anything. Despite the additional approximately 40 million, we still have a system-funded science and education, which puts the most vulnerable at an increasingly high level, says young researchers in particular. And it's not nearly enough to make saving really slow down. Science and education should be the cornerstone of the country's strategic policy, but they are not, despite all the big and beautiful words. Not a word about sports infrastructure, where more and more school playgrounds are locked up. Unfortunately, there has also been some kind of privatisation of public sports areas, and at the same time recreation is becoming increasingly commercialised, it is said to be payable. In the United Left, of course, we clearly advocate that this must be public goods and that this infrastructure must be clearly provided by the State. Let me get back to the content of the interpolation. This interpretation applies only in practice and only to the responsibility of delaying the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, by which it found that the Act on the organisation and financing of higher education is not in conformity with the Constitution in that part which speaks of the financing of private schools. The Constitutional Court has decided that the State must fully finance all private public schools and that the current state of the various financing declares it unconstitutional. The decision, of course, justified the fact that the Constitution guarantees the right to free basic education, whether in private or public institutions. In addition to public schools, private schools with concessions are fully funded, but let us not forget that those without concession receive as much as 85% of the funding for their operation. It is clear from the separate opinion of one of the Constitutional Judges, mentioned earlier by colleague Kotnik Popotat, that the right to free primary education would be violated only if the children could not be included in one of the schools in the public network of primary schools. As we have heard several times before, the decision of the Constitutional Court was taken from five to four. However, this points to extremely negative trends which instill private interests in the public good. For private schools, this is a special form of public-private partnership where private interests are financed through public funds. Of course, the private owner of the school has an additional self-interest, either profit or expansion of his secular or ideological religious beliefs. On the other hand, public education provides quality education for all, whether they are children from rural areas or large capitals. So what's the problem? The decision of the Constitutional Court is also missing due to the current undernutrition of public education, which is used by austerity measures to take financial resources. Teacher's wages are getting lower, non-permanent, affordable jobs are becoming more and more frequent, infrastructure and didactic tools are lacking and so on. Of course, on the same means in which it is so severely saved, so-called private schools are parasitic, with this decision of the Constitutional Court even 100 per cent. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is nowhere, and you read it as you wish, does not favour private education. This is another intervention by the minimum majority of constitutional judges in favour of private interests against public interest, in favour of political right and capital. Interpellation is therefore justified on the part and delay in relation to the wrong decision of the Constitutional Court, by which the State should even increase the financing of private schools. That such interpretation comes from the SDS, the parliamentary exhibition of the Roman Catholic Church, and we are not surprised at all. [[Laughing in the hall]] I'm glad you're here. It is the private schools owned by the church that are the most profitable if the implementation takes place at the expense of the state. The RCC itself is, therefore, the richest institution in the country, even because of the illegal return of land to which it has not been justified at all and, if there was anything divine, could even help the public sector. Here, the proposalr also points to his duality. We must recall the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2. Seven. 2009 and 14 3. 2013 in which the Constitutional Court established discriminatory provisions of the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Communities and the Law on Succession. At that time, the Constitutional Court imposed on the National Assembly even a shorter deadline for the abolition of those provisions, which discriminate against citizens on the basis of their sexual orientation, of a shorter term than it did in the case of State funding for private schools. The SDS, together with the Roman Catholic Church for years and years, has prevented the implementation of these two decisions by the Constitutional Court from being selected at all. Let's also remember the deleted ones. Creating the conditions for the exercise of fundamental human rights is, of course, totally irrelevant to the SDS. Creating the conditions for parasitising public education at the expense of private education, in particular church education, is, of course, a priority for SDS. It is also absurd that the parties that are the largest apologists of the free market are making every effort to reach 100 per cent of the funding of private schools by the State. If they were consistent in their ideology, then they would demand that the State grant to private schools be completely abolished. These should then compete in the open market with competing programmes and services. What do you think we've ever received money from independent cultural workers? We made our own production, and then, if you were good on the market, you survived, otherwise you didn't. No one expected special gifts from the country. In short, the dilemma between 100 per cent and 85 per cent of private school funding from public money is completely pointless. This funding should be zero per cent. It is the duty of the State to provide free universally accessible education at all levels. If this is not possible in an area at some point in time, of course, it is possible to provide for some funding and implementation of publicly valid curricula in private schools, but only to the extent determined on the basis of the negotiations between the State and the private operator, and only to the extent that the State is not in a position to provide these activities and these programmes in a public school. Concessions, both in education and in health care or elsewhere, can only be a mechanism to bridge problems until the country itself is able to provide these services to its inhabitants. This does not mean, of course, that private schools are prohibited in any way, but that these private schools must respect everyone with the Constitution and the laws of a certain right of children who attend these schools to be financed as they know and know. It is unacceptable for private service providers to do so with our public money. Everyone can have a private school or a private office if they meet certain conditions, but their own desire, their own decision, or their own ideology can be financed with their own money. That is why we have also proposed changes to the Constitution, and here we also sincerely hope for the support of the largest coalition party SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Mr. Franz Beznik, the replica. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. A lot of people would think I'd see a lot of things in Mrs. Tomic's replica. I will first tell positive things where I agree with her. Firstly, the rural area was extremely well fed, with regard to the public school system, especially primary schools, gyms and so on. We prove that it was in the time of the Janša government that a fellow Minister Zver did the most in this area and built the most new elementary schools, new gyms, let's say in the area from which I come, in the Slovenian Gorica. A few days ago, we were together with the former Minister of Education, a great minister, in Vitomarci, where the branch school they built was located. The Head of the Church, Mr Žmavc, has given him special recognition and thanks after 10 years of the school. It was built in 2006 just to help the countryside, to ensure that those in low-social families have access to their homes and do not have any other costs. I want to say that we understand what social differentiation means, we understand what the social state means, but we understand that we all need equal starting positions, respected. In a nation that has such a small population, we need the same starting position. The richest and the poorest of families. He is extremely talented, motivated and from the poorest family, and this country must enable him to take the highest position and to come after a complete school or educational scale. That's how we understand social state, that's normal, and that's how the whole world understands it, Western civilization. And you realize that it's impossible that private education is something ugly, something ideological, something that steals our money. Tell me, how many add-ons were there in private school? Give it to me! Give me a list of institutions where they stole public money. Who stole the future from the young? Who stole school lunches for the kids? It's just people sitting here at the university paying their extras. What colleges? Those who have the least employable graduates that we don't really need. The Finance Officer showed with a scale that those who received the most of these supplements have the lowest number of points in the academic field. So there was almost no one from medical school, from a technical college, from any top-notch institute certified abroad. The worst academic professors have thus received the most of these supplements. What am I trying to say? The possibility is in the future, in the conflict of spirits that I'm talking about today. This is what will bring Slovenia among the highest countries, the most developed countries. When colleague Tomić spoke about the Catholic Church today, which is ugly, I was just proving that Knaflje’s institution had helped us with 500 top academic scientists since 1676. For the last 450 years, respected colleagues, from Prešern, Cankar, Melika, Henrik Tume, Stefan and so on, not to mention all the other academic "excellents".
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u66	Mr. Breznik, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u67	The ones she represents, the ones she represents, the ones that are the United Left in Pride, are a falsified Ljubljana Lumpenproletariat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u68	Okay, Mr. Breznik, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u69	From Kidric forward. That's the second level.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u70	Mr. Breznik, please, let's reframe ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u71	These are the ones who were educated in Kumrovec and Belgrade. That's the whole point of this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u72	Mr. Beznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u73	On the one hand, the academic European elite, on the other hand [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u74	Mr. Breznik, I was forced to turn off your microphone. We understand. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Breznik, I don't know why you're doing this. I don't know why you're doing this. I have kindly warned you, and you are unkindly pursuing and disturbing procedures and your associates or co-conspirators. I'm asking you so nicely. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] What's Mrs. Irgle with? By warning him three times? Mr Beznik has three minutes of opportunity and I was more than tolerant of allowing him to give his opinion. Anybody want to add anything? Mr. Hanzek, please. Come on, please, reframe and get back to what we're here for, please. Mr. Hanžek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u75	You've already protested, Mr President, but I protest personally. I'm protesting that I'm a falsified student of the University of Ljubljana. When you have so many international studies and international reports that they say in the United Nations are exemplary for the whole world, then you can measure me to a falsified student of the United Left. I was just talking about myself. That's the way it is with others. Please refrain from such insults, because I can begin to tell someone else something. As far as I'm concerned, I've got enough international, Slovenian and all the other references not to allow that kind of insult. Unfortunately, I never put these references out, and I write them down not, but when someone insults me, I regret to show them. I don't want to stand up to them, I don't care. But that's not what I'm up to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Hanzek. Mr Breznik, before I give you procedurally, I hope that we have all understood what you have told us and taken your words for ransom. Mr. Franz Breznik, procedurally, your word. Then we proceed with Mrs Irgle, if I understand correctly. Mr. Franz Breznik, your word is procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right. I've exceeded three minutes. Accept my apology. And secondly, I would ask you procedurally to warn my colleague Hanzk that I am not offensive, that I have talked about their patterns, which are mostly spoken of. I'm not speaking to totalitarian samples of any totalitarian regime, as you call yourself. This means that the biggest broken-down Ljubljana students who revolutionized Slovenia killed our entire academic elites or fled to the country that I was talking about earlier, whether they were thrown out of college in Ljubljana, from all schools, removed their doctrine, and these are your patterns because you use their symbols. I didn't personally insult you for being a failed student, but I was talking about your role models. I would therefore ask that you, on a procedural basis, warn him not to sleep at the meeting to listen. If he hears bad, we have hearing aids or he can get his headphones up. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u78	Before I give my word to Mr. Hanzk, I ask you to be respectful to each other. Mr. Hanzek, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u79	About my role models. My grandfather was a revolutionary and a communist, but he was the real doctor who made him abroad during the two wars. I'm not going to talk about my family, which can also be my role models. But my professional role models are Nobel laureates, from Amarty Sen onward. Please stop insulting me here. If this is how you think you're going to talk in Parliament about some thing that I think we're talking about, so education, I think you're going to prove exactly what level of education it is for you to bring back a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u80	From the next one who will have a word, I expect him to return the words to where they belong. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u81	Thank you. A colleague of Violet's left, but still. She said it was necessary to distinguish between public and private. But we, Your Honor, have a constitution. Once again, and I don't know how many times, the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution says: "Basic education is compulsory. "Here is this resolution that we should debate today. However, if you want to withdraw this paragraph and this article that primary school education will no longer be compulsory, then there will be no problems at all to put the divides between public and private. That's exactly what we're talking about, the divide between private and public primary education. It really bothers me when the debaters go to a general educational debate. I would not agree with my colleague Tomić, who says that there are poor and rich differences, whether you are successful or not. This is an insult to all those successful young people who come from socio-economically weak families who have succeeded within the educational system and then professionally. I really pray that we do not generalize this in general so that those who are poor cannot be successful, and vice versa. Even the fact that the rich are supposed to go to private schools is not true. Once again, we have private schools with a publicly valid program and we have private schools. In Slovenia we don't even feel that much, but those who have ever had contact with students, say, in England or America, know exactly what to talk about when they give their annual college membership or university membership, how much they cost, them and their parents, and how much they will cost after they finish their studies. Dear Mrs Violeta Tomić, on the threat that she will take over privately. In 2016 there are 452 primary schools in Slovenia, of which 4 are private, that is 0.8%. What a threat to the supremacy! You say that 5 to 4 is a problem because it is the wrong majority, but here is 0.8% of the problem and the threat that it will take over privately. According to my data, there are 182 secondary schools in Slovenia, of which 4 are private, 2%. What kind of threat? Once again, we are talking about supplementing the public network, not the threat. It always makes me feel pressured to hear the generalization of what a threat is. However, they generalize those who have a problem with decision 5-4. This is a problem, and on the other hand 1% is not a problem if we cheer for our own. Dear Violeta Tomić said that the decision of the Constitutional Court was wrong. There will be a real time soon when we will all be thrown out of Parliament. The last time is to make a hallway from our side to Šubičeva, to the parking lot, because one day we'll have 50,000 people here who will say, "You're all wrong. "That a Member for a third branch of power may say that the decision of the Constitutional Court is wrong, not only unfair and unworthy, but something else. We can also intimately disagree, coalition and opposition, but the law has been passed. I can say that the decision is wrong in my opinion, but it will have to apply and will have to be taken into account, if it is road traffic regulations that people understand best or for some more important matters. They must be respected and respected. Not that someone says that the Constitutional Court's decision is wrong and that he is privately parasitising publicly and so on. He's already told his friend Franca that he's having the most affair in public schools. Different affairs occur here and there. Have you ever heard of an affair at Waldorf High School, Aloysz Schusthar primary school, Montessori? The only affair was the one that the Prime Minister himself cooked when he went to Aloysija Schuštar Elementary School in April this year and said, "As a lawyer and a Prime Minister, I am unhappy because we are late for a constitutional decision." If you follow the words of your colleague Violeta Tomić, Miro Cerar will have two fewer matters, as he will no longer have to go to private schools because there will be no more, and he will not have to tell such nonsense or lies. He'll sleep twice as easily and be less unhappy. Now we've heard of whose exposure we're SDS. I'd like to know whose side the United Left is. Some say it's Putin's, one of Madur's, but let them decide for themselves according to the markings they have on their shirts. Most of their predecessors are dead. However, I would like to remind my colleague, Violeto Tomić, who said that the decision of the Constitutional Court in the field of same-sex is not realistic. But, Your Honor, since 2013 the Slovenian Democratic Party has no longer been in government. If you're already setting us up and telling us that we are not the only ones to be saved, which we also admit, we do not urge us to be guilty of failing to comply with the 2013 Constitutional Court ruling and beyond when we are in opposition, both under the government of Alenka Bratušek and under the government of Dr. Mir Cerar. At least the information with which Members operate should be correct and accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u82	Thank you, too. Dr. Runczek, did you want the procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, chairman. The mistake that every politician makes is that most of them make out of themselves to the population. Today I drove with Hanzko from Maribor and we discussed, among other things, that idols needed to be killed symbolically in teenage years, I said that at 16, Matjaž said that he could also do a few more years. I've got a gray cap on my jacket from the Scottish Gulf. But I have successfully killed these idols and such and other symbols in my teenage years, which of course does not mean that I never follow any example. But not now your story is meant to sell and generalize. I'm not going to put up with this kind of insult after two years. Please, Presidents, hold the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But it is already clear to us in advance that we have another lost day with a whole range of problems that we have in education, especially in higher and even some other. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u84	Now it was procedural, if I understand correctly, wasn't it? The motioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u85	Comrade Trček, I'm sorry that you weren't in the hall when your colleague Violeta Tomić spoke, who said that SDS was an exposition of the Roman Catholic Church. So all I did was answer the question, whose exposition is then her client or the United Left. Secondly, with regard to the lost day, if the debate on the failure to implement the Constitutional Court's decision is tossed aside, then the time will soon come when citizens and citizens will say that every day we are in Parliament is a waste of time. Then it will be necessary to build a corridor under Šubič's road some day earlier, so that we can go home more easily and safely, because once again the citizens will be sickened when we wave such a way through the inapplicable decisions of the Constitutional Court, and they must respect the Slovenian legal order, not only the laws, but also the Constitution. Indeed, if it is a problem for those who would rather be at home to debate on the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, then go home and leave those who want to discuss it – especially because we are talking about failing to comply with the Constitutional Court decision – that we are also implementing it here at the so-called temple of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u86	Mr Daniel Krivec, first of all, has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Which is hard to get back to the subject now, given the previous discussions, but I will try to be a little more consistent about this. All of you have already found that the fact that primary education is provided in our Constitution and that it is an obligation. On the other hand, we have a violation of this Constitution established by the Constitutional Court. I think that we all agree on this and that is why this interpretation is certainly necessary, because the breach has been taking place for a long time and has not been resolved. I think that given that we are all responsible in Parliament, there should not be any problem in this regard. The talk was about a lost day by some and that interpretations were unnecessary and useless. I note that this was very useful, for the Minister said in her opening debate that she had already put into practice the amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which would actually go towards achieving this constitutional decision, which is not implemented. It is said that our interpolation has already achieved its purpose, however we turn. I'm worried about something else. If I have listened to the views of the parliamentary groups and if we look at the web pages and the portals in place, we find that the response from some coalition parliamentary groups is negative at the moment when the matter is barely in inter-resort coordination. The explicit statements that this law or this novel, prepared and coordinated by the distinguished minister, will not be supported. So at this point, someone is consciously speaking about not supporting a law that preserves unconstitutionality, so he does not respect the Constitution. We're here on my own before a pretty big problem. It should also be made clear that for those who monitor this, the constitutional decisions of 2001 and 2014 do not refer to the same subject. In 2001, speeches on the financing of private and public education in general were discussed explicitly in the case of a 2014 decision on the financing of a public programme which has been verified both in private school and in the general programme of public schools. In this case, it is the same matter, which must also be due to the constitutional dictatorship, that the primary school is compulsory, which is in the constitution, even in the same way implemented, which means that financing in this way must also be the same. Many predecessors, especially on the other hand, spoke of the fact that we should talk about the subject, that we should talk about concrete things, but at the same time, regardless of the fact that we Members are also committed to respect for the law and also respect for decisions, but all or most doubt that the result is 5 : 4 relevant. I hope that we will not find that five are less than four, because in this direction some of the debates were also going on by some, because they doubted whether five is more than four and cited a number of arguments that the opposite would almost prevail. If we agree to this, then all decisions in the National Assembly, which are not taken by an absolute majority, obviously do not apply to you and do not need to be respected. In this direction, your debate was that the result was so narrow that it was hardly necessary to respect it. If we agree to this thesis that you're trying to develop, then it's a very dangerous game. I hope a lot of people just got engaged. Even the fear that private education will prevail, given that private education is allowed and implemented in some way since independence, we have only reached 0.8%, which the applicant has explained well, obviously does not attach to it. We are still far below the European average as regards private education. However, in this debate, it is still important to point out that both constitutional decisions that you simply throw into the same basket must not be mixed. This is not about general funding. In the case of a final decision not implemented by the Ministry or the Minister in its capacity, this Decision concerns the financing of that part of the programme in private primary schools which is confirmed and which is the same as in public schools. This is very important. It is also dangerous for someone to dispute whether a constitutional decision is wrong or whether a constitutional decision is appropriate. If we agree to this thesis, it is necessary to ask whether we are sitting in the right Parliament or whether Parliament is still needed, as well as the other institutions. In this case, I believe that the Constitutional Court has adopted a decision which the legislative authority must respect and implement. There is no question here of whether it is appropriate, inappropriate, right or wrong, as some have found before me. However, if we go to the school area, which many of you have discussed before me, here I can fully agree with my colleagues on the other hand on the part where it was said that the conditions for all those attending public schools are not equal, even because of the geographical origin or condition from which we come from. That's a fact. This should therefore be done more than what is not being fulfilled today in a constitutional decision. It is also important to ask why all the rings and all the school activities that have been linked in the past to some of the teachers’ obligations are paying at this time and thus further burden those who are less wealthy. Not to mention the differentiation that was introduced in a nine-year-old. In the seventh grade, it is said that children should be divided into those who are more capable and those who are less capable. If someone were to listen to this, I'd say it's probably happening in some private school. But no, it happens in a public school where there is differentiation in primary school. This should also be discussed. The last issue of the introduction or provision of a hot meal for all those in the educational system has been mentioned several times. It is also quite forgetting that this has already been introduced in our mandate. In view of the fact that you say that only bad happened in our mandate, I would remind you, however, that this was introduced and that it was clear with the ZUJF at the time somehow interrupted. However, given that you have been in power for two and a half years or in a saddle, these things could also be arranged if you are thinking differently at this time. I will support this interpretation because it is a matter of infringement and non-compliance with legislation or constitutional provisions. In view of the fact that the Minister has put the law into procedure, which somehow solves this matter, this interpretation has, as I said, achieved its purpose. In view of the discussions, the Minister will remain, and I wish her great success in coordinating and coordinating this legislation, first in inter-departmental coordination, and even more so when this law comes to the parliamentary bench. As I said, it is very worrying in particular that some are already declaring that this law will not be supported, on the other hand, to question the decision of the Constitutional Court and to talk about whether it is right or wrong, they wonder whether it is 5 : 4 most of them are five or four and similar. I'm kind of worried about that. I think that in the past some things have been more respected and taken into account in this House than at this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u88	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Prepare Mr Jean Mahnic and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating my young colleague that he was entrusted with interpolation management in his client. It's a serious matter, so congratulations. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u91	I would say that, of course, it is right to really clarify what interpelation is at every interpolation. Your colleague, in fact the leader, is in the last session – a few times earlier, but my last one remained so juicy in memory – said the following sentence: "It is right that we first clarify what interpolation is. Interpellation is, "for him, "if we try to look at it substantively, in fact some sort of inventory of the situation after a certain period, an analysis of the situation after a certain period is called inventory." Then he goes on to say that, given that she is in the government for two years and that she is also a minister – that was the flight to the previous minister we had at the interview – we are not angry at why we are actually discussing. Another property your leader has – I see that a young colleague has taken this very intensively – is that he is directing us what we can actually talk about today. About the subject of interpolation, in fact, and nothing else. But he forgets the fact that he's always jumping out of this field and always mentions all the other things, of course, under the pretext that he's actually answering the question. Education in our country is one of the fundamental rights and, more importantly, material so important that it obviously has its constitutional weight. That is why we are talking about him today. But today there were quite a few readings. From one of the colleagues on my right, a sentence was made saying that this government is known after the failure to comply with constitutional decisions. This is not, of course, because I do not think that there is a government in the last 25 years that does not comply with any decision. Be it because she could not, or because she did not get political consent within this assembly, or because she did not really want to, and she rather waited until she had finished her term early and became unfulfilled. Then it is said that – what we have heard many times today – and then I will make an argument – if we could fix it, we could no longer, because we were not in the government, but we were in the opposition again. And I'll tell you in which case you keep repeating this famous fact. We were talking about deleted today. I have already said several times in this room that this is one of the biggest national disgraces the country has ever enjoyed, that it has come in a field wiped out so far that even the European Court had to do something and say something and then we moved. But today I listened — and this is the most perverse thing I could hear — from where the greatest advocates were to wipe out people and not a little of it — to do everything they could to correct this constitutional law because they wanted to correct it by constitutional law. Let us see what they really wanted to do. In 2004, when you were not yet in power, that was in February, that was a quarter of a year before you tasted the four-year-old power's sweetness, you introduced a constitutional law to remedy the law in your own way, and of course a retrograde one in which you established certain dictions that would actually tell you who actually has the right to become a citizen or who will continue to be deleted. Interestingly, that was not even voted on. Comrade, you tell others that they are lying, but you have deliberately overlooked it, or you have not said it, but I will not use that word, which you easily share with us today, namely that we are lying. This text was soon removed, and you won't believe it. We didn't vote on him either. That same year, August of the month, a few months before the elections, when it was clear to everyone that the constitutional law would not even have a debate on the Constitutional Commission, you or your boss filed for the purposes of electoral propaganda a law that was slightly modified, again with the same message of how to retrogradely confirm that some were correctly deleted. When you failed to do so, then the mandate ended, you came to power and you forgot about all these constitutional corrections, how the decision of the Constitutional Court should be corrected. In 2007, however, you found Mr Matei, who was then the Minister of the Interior, who again drafted a law that would, of course, correct in a slightly nicer way the matter, which is called deleted. But it was never meant to make things right, but in fact to legalize and rehabilitate the action that was done — but now I will stress that you will not understand that you are the only one flying — from the left, the right and anyone. Of all of them. Everyone was moving back then. But of course, that was popular back then. You won't believe it, it wasn't discussed either, but the official tag was eventually removed. This was your way of correcting constitutional decisions. So much for who's been fixing things. What were we gonna say with that? The Constitutional Court has ruled on this on several occasions. Two decisions were crucial. You know that. Today, colleague Dragan Matić has already mentioned this. It was a constitutional decision in 1999, later in 2003 and still in the ECHR 2006-2012. One of them was trying to fix Mrs. Kresalov. Who blocked it? Later your former associate Virant, the minister in your government, was correcting this, but he was no longer yours, he had his own client. Your theories on how you fight and meet constitutional provisions are a little flimsy. They can't handle some serious discussion or argument. Second thing. Today you have mentioned same-sex or diversified, and don't be too obvious to me if I say the next sentence. Don't brag about wanting to arrange their rights by trying to register them as cars. Which is even more important. If your intention was sincere, if you so sincerely wanted to regulate these rights, especially the Constitutional Court's decision, why didn't you do so in this mandate? Why did you not support the Partnership Law, which also regulate these matters and regulated this decision? If you ask me, the fact that this law will appear as soon as possible in the Constitutional Court is that it is also controversial. But I'll talk about it some other time. If we move on. What has been done in this government, given that you have continued to see how this government does not really implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court? It's a law on inheritance. He was very clearly correcting the exact solution ordered by the Constitutional Court. Next, the Partnership Act I mentioned. The Act on Offences - this amendment implemented two Constitutional Court decisions, 2014 and 2013, which found that the first sentence of Article 93(1) of the Law on Offences, which excludes the right to repay the fine paid, is also in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Then the removal prison was abolished, which we all know was also the subject of a dispute in the Constitutional Court's decision. In the parliamentary procedure, we have a package of electoral legislation that is supposed to solve things. I'll see if you'll take part in this resolution of the errors in our electoral system, as determined by the Constitutional Court. Then there's the archival material law, which contains personal data, which is the protection of personal data, as far as patients are concerned. We'll see if you'll cooperate here if you don't go through any archives again, as we're used to on your side. In preparation, however, there is also a housing law that will implement the 2015 Constitutional Court decision by which the Constitutional Court found that the constitutional principle of equality concerning the subsidy of market rents is inconsistent. So much for that. But I do have one serious problem. You said by two this afternoon that it was 0.7% and you were talking about 0.8% of the two of them. I don't blame you. It's probably a lapsus, but you've been convicted, but I just don't understand why you insist so stubbornly – here I'll agree – that it just doesn't matter if the four judges think otherwise. I agree. The Constitutional Decision is a constitutional decision which is known to be valid if there are 5 or 6, or 7 or 8 or 9 votes in favour. This does not mean, however, that we must not publicly parliamentary over it, that we must not even criticize it or even express our doubts that we disagree with it. And I'll tell you why. We know when the constitution was adopted and we use it. Until the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014, we were convinced that we all understand this second paragraph very clearly and very clearly. After this decision, we find that someone who has the right to comment not only to comment, but even to decide when interpreting the Constitution itself – and these decisions also apply – finds that something is wrong with this second paragraph. I'm not happy with him personally, given this way of interpretation. Now, watch out! Does the National Assembly have the right to amend the Constitution if it finds that this is not what was meant all the time and even the system was built on this second indent and has been in force all the time and is still in practice? If the Constitutional Court thinks that way and the four Constitutional Judges even think that they do not understand it, it is so important that we are aware that a change of the Constitution is necessary. I am the co-signatory of the amendment of the Constitution myself, but when I signed it, I made it clear, in such a form as it is proposed, certainly not, in the amended I will support it immediately, I have no dilemma about it. This does not mean that we will not adopt a law that will also implement the decision of the Constitutional Court. What's your lead? Too late. Is that right? With regard to everything else, if I have understood my predecessor correctly, I should really conclude this debate, because he has already congratulated her and wants her to move forward and, more importantly, should she take the utmost interest in the adoption of the law in a spirit. I've got a problem from here on out. In what spirit? As Joseph Horvath said, unfortunately, he is not here today, who has quite a habit of saying – at least in the magnetogram of deleted ones – the following sentence said: "You know, you have to understand, at that time such a decision was made because the spirit of time was so." A ghost of time. Hello? What are we talking about? What spirit of time? We're talking about the facts of what we really want. These are the essential elements of decision-making. That is why I hope that we will not adopt a law that is in the spirit of something, but, above all, in the spirit of what we want and most of us are convinced that we must have. If it's so public, then we should stop it. But on the other hand, some do not separate what is called private, and today we want to develop a discussion and debate on privacy and the public sector. I don't care about this discussion because I've told you a hundred times that I don't have a problem with privacy. Far from doubting that they would not be able to implement a specific programme. But does the state have a duty to pay for this? And here I have serious concerns. Why? Why, for God's sake, do we have to pay? Today I agree with you that we have very few schools in the private field, and that is the argument with which to operate. What are you afraid of? You know what? I'll tell you what I'm afraid of not speaking for the others, and then just respond to me. I am afraid that this raises many other questions, and therefore I am sure that the Minister cannot and could not come in such a short time with a comprehensive solution. As soon as this is cleared up, the field opens up whether or not we have a voucher system. Will anyone really be able to walk and choose any school? By this logic, my dears, we no longer need a public school system. Then let's keep it all private and we'll have a voucher system and people will make their own decisions. One school will be "preferred", the second one, the third one. The second is the question of where, with all the capital invested by the State – or taxpayers, which we now have in our heart today, when we express ourselves – into all the complete infrastructure. I'm sorry, I'm predicting today that if this logic that you're selling down below is going to apply, it means that all this infrastructure will eventually become private. Why? Because there will be no one else in the public sector who will do this because they think they will be few. In private schools there are higher wages, of course more work, several hours, but also several violations of rights. This is what needs to be cleaned up. Not everywhere, not at all, but still. Personally, I am convinced that we must build on a public network, on public recognised programmes – on only recognized ones, I apologize, here I have a problem – but above all on public programmes, and thus, of course, also raise the quality of the minister. Not only to pick up, but also to keep checking and monitoring. That's why I can end up with the next one. Minister, your mission is clear on what you need to prepare as soon as possible. But it will not be easy, for when we come with the law, today you have received an introduction or a twist into what awaits us, what a breakdown of this law, because there will be only one concept — how to somehow prepare the ground for the once wide opening of the door to what never was a value in the Slovenians. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u92	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u93	Thank you. Jani, you know I have to replicate a little, even though I have a lot of respect for your views, but we often disagree. I didn't tell all of you to lie, but I told the people who said it was 5:4 for them. Then they spoke of one decision that was different from this decision, and I told them to tell the truth about the 2001 decision, what is this decision in 2014 and where the differences are, not to deceive or lie. I have to say that I believe that you haven't lied about erased and same-sex people, but I don't know that much history because I didn't deal with these areas, even though I was in the National Assembly at the time. I'd rather ask my colleague Eva Irgle or my colleague Brannet Grimes whether he holds it or not, but you'll probably have a chance to discuss it. Even as to whether it was a serious purpose or not, I hope that we are politicians for their serious purpose. This could also be said for the proposal of the United Left, which you first referred to as being populist, but now it is suddenly a serious intention. Sometimes we have weekly problems with what's serious and what's demagogic. About 0.7 or 0.8%, I'm sorry, I got exactly the last data, which says 0.8%, I don't know if it's round. In the meantime, no school has been established, including the one that is supposed to be on display since October - something on "L" is said to her, I read earlier, I apologize - still does not change this fact. We're not talking about decomposition, but if it's 0.7 or it's 0.9, that's at least my opinion. That's why I get very nervous when someone tells me 1 through 99 is some sort of decomposition. This is really a stretch of this elasticity in mathematics. My colleague Jani spoke of 5-4 and that he could comment. Of course, but not in the sense of saying that the Constitutional Court's decision is wrong and we will not respect it. He didn't say that to Jani, Jani made a nice comment, and it was solid. However, if some predecessors say that this decision is wrong, the result is not fair and similar, then I doubt some parliamentary democracy that is supposed to go to Slovenia. Such thinking somehow leads me to a point, or do we even need a Constitutional Court if we can overtake it with a constitutional law, or some middle way, or do we need a Constitutional Court if its decisions are not agreed upon. I have already asked this question whether we need the National Assembly if our decisions are not unanimous or whether our decisions are appropriate or not, that is, decisions of the majority that vote on matters. Even by being in the spirit of something, I agree. But before that, the lawyer said they were finesse, and we know that when we debate laws, we get laws from the government, they're reviewed by the law and law services of ministries, they're reviewed by the Government's Law and Law Service, they're reviewed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. These are the finesse that they end up making. Not because of our vote for or against, but when people meet in a particular life with a certain dictatorship of a certain law, people who don't understand first have a problem, for example, officials who don't understand again, but have to consider whether there will be a penalty if someone fails to comply with a law. My colleague Jani said he had concerns about why pay for it privately. Once again, Jani, because I know you're always in the hall and you're already a bit fluid, but we're talking about financing primary schools and funding public programmes, because we have this Article 2nd paragraph 57 in the Constitution, that primary schools are free. This is the only place we have this debate. With regard to this construction of private capacity and so on. Individuals build their own infrastructure, material, maintenance and everything else, so this logic makes it cheaper for the country. If we had all the private schools and we said that the ministry would not give any more euros to build or just maintain the premises of primary schools, I think that the minister would probably be the first to be satisfied with such a decision or with such a law, because she would say, "Here I am getting rid of not only Members, not only Mayors, not only Mayors, but probably some parents who probably send more or less friendly letters to the Ministry, if they have a school in their community, in their place that is a hundred years old, and urgently need a new, new, new, new, new, new, new, new, new." Perhaps the minister or at least the one at the directorate will take his head and say, "Here's another one in a pile that wants 10,000 euros from us, and we're talking about millions of dollars more." It is therefore better for the country privately in this case. With regard to the voucher system, I have already seen on a few networks of comments today that everyone should go to worse public schools. It's a disaster for someone to say that and someone to write. Let us say that we have good public schools and want or let them enrich them with private ones. Here we ask for assistance from the State only at that point, which is in accordance with the Constitution, that primary schools are compulsory and in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which said that it should not be 85 per cent funding, but 100 per cent. Here I go again to that 2001 decision. Now, I'm curious about something, Madam Secretary-General. My friend Jani said there were higher wages. I'm going to read from a rich education where it says, "By law, you can only set up a primary or secondary school, which can only be a non-profit. The salaries of teachers in private schools by law cannot be higher than the salaries of their colleagues in public schools, as they follow the rules applicable to public servants." I hope that's true. Jani, no, you weren't lying. You probably got the wrong information. I hope the Minister will say that this pay scaler is here as well. Jani, I agree that it is necessary to build a public network, absolutely, but also to allow a private primary school. Of course, on the condition that the Ministry or Government have the opportunity to say stop to schools that would boldly disturb our political or ideological space, which must be protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Like I said before, you're like what my colleague Matić said earlier, probably none of us in this room want.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u94	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Tomaž would be replicated only in a part where, of course, we don’t understand each other or he didn’t understand me very well when he tried to teach me again, or he deliberately used this opportunity to talk about what we’re talking about today. Let me get this straight. I talked about what the Constitutional Court decided — I will now be very clear — years ago and what it decides today. Tomaž, I know you keep teaching Members that this is a different question. Yes, at first sight. But not really. For those who know what the questions are in the background, this is what I am saying — again, I am speaking from the part that I mentioned in my debate — that we are actually trying to open up to private education for this decision at the wide door, which means that we have to make a conceptual decision in this country whether we will allow it or not. They're all supposed to be the same before marriage. It is impossible to give an exclusive right to a minister who will, of course, currently decide what is right and what is wrong with him. That's why this concept won't hold up, and that's why we, Tomaž, can't understand each other in this part. After all, it is not the intention of us to understand each other, especially the purpose of Slovenians and Slovenes to understand what we are talking about. I'm sure if the cameras were down, after three hours, I would have ended this interpolation because we'd run out or not even want to. That's it. Everything else has already been told by the Minister, and she will probably have to repeat it a few times, even for those who monitor the transfer in the afternoon and evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u96	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, President. The Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have come across many times how to separate two concepts, respect, respect, and so forth. I do not defend the thesis that the judgment of the courts must be respected, but I defend and stand firm on the thesis that they must be respected. However, there is a huge difference between respect for the judgment and compliance with the judgment. Just for comparison. Last year, the Constitutional Court said and gave approximately a year of time to the Ministry of Education to correct what it had imposed on them regarding the financing of private schools. This year, three ministers at the Ministry of Education and this correction were replaced, and we did not get this bill on the table, and we received it from the Slovenian Democratic Party when we tabled the proposal of the ZOFVI into the parliamentary procedure. I would also somehow understand that it would take about one year for the Ministry to prepare appropriate legislative corrections if the Ministry were to come to the National Assembly this year with other laws that would reform in other areas of education to bring new ones that would eliminate other injustices. However, in the last year, we have not received a single law from the Ministry of Education, with the exception of the ZVIS, which will be discussed next week at the meeting. It is said that the Ministry of Education has done nothing or has done nothing in the past year since the Government of Mir Cerar has been in power. The fact that you produced only ZVIS, not a new law, but just a novelty and some corrections, is not a reform for me. All that was going on about this law was that we argued whether Slovenian would stay in university or not. But we don't have the same vats everywhere. Imagine that on 20 June 2014, when the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party had to report to the Prison of the Age, Mr Janez Janša said that he would not go there, because this judgment is not credible for him, that is not relevant, that I will not go to jail for the sentence, or that I will go maybe in one year, when some things are still settled when we find another fact and so on. What would happen? Would we normally see that this matter is being violated, that it does not go to prison? This is currently being done in Slovenia for 10 months, all from January onwards, when this should be settled. What would the President of the National Assembly then say, what would the President of the Government say, what would all those who swore to ethics say, morale, and were filled with mouths of respect for the rule of law? Ask them what happens to them who don't pay the electricity bill, who don't pay the utility bill. If you don't pay the electricity bill, they'll shut you down. They just shut you down. They don't leave 11 months if you don't pay or leave you for a year or less. They just shut you down. The Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not paid an account for 11 months if I speak in parables and is still connected to electricity. No problem, just because she is Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Again, we have first-class and second-class citizens, as he in the past called fallen and failed candidate for UN chief, Dr Danilo Türk. But that's the way it is. New ethics and morals are the distinction between first-class, all-inclusive and second-class, which is cut off from electricity if only a month, two are delayed by paying the bills. We also keep listening, especially by those sitting here opposite me, that the result of the vote in the Constitutional Court was 5-4. Let me know how you interpret the vote on the interpretation of Minister Anja Kopač Dark when it was 43 to 38. So what's the logic in this case? So the secretary stayed. That's not a problem. And most of them hit her in the vote, but the minister remains because it is so written down that there must be 46 votes against her. But this is where the secretary stayed. But you are a problem to most of the Constitutional Court. Your Member, former judge, Dr. Jasna Murgelj wrote on Facebook that when we change constitutional judges, everything will be different, but everything will be better because your real constitutional judges will come. Do we have 0.8 or do we have 0.7 or do we have 1%? For those of you who do not know how to calculate this – you share 4 private schools with 452 elementary schools in Slovenia and get 0.8%. There's no big science required here. To say that this 0.8% poses a threat to the remaining 99.2% is about as if the United States of America said they were being militarily threatened by Ghana. If we look at military and firepower, Ghana is 100th and the United States is number one. Approximately this is what you want to sell to me here, the one who says that public primary education is threatened by 0.8% of private primary schools. With this, you want to tell me that the United States of America is being militarily threatened by Ghana, an African country that has more paramilitaries than a serious army. Although it is true that we are in 111th place by firepower, we are even worse than Ghana, but about this another time. You're saying we want to show public education in bad light. The only party that showed bad public education today is Desus. Look what they wrote on Twitter. "Do we really want our children to share in primary school with those with elite private education and those with poor public education?" The Desus Group wrote this on Twitter. This acknowledges or proves to us that we are sharing our citizens with those with elite private and those with poor public education. That's what you're saying. That's what you're saying. That's what you're saying. That's what you're saying. That's what's publically bad, and that's private, elite, great, better. We wouldn't even be able to say that. We wouldn't even be able to say that. Mr. Prikl, you are nodding at me, look what you wrote on Twitter, your parliamentary group. This is the position of your Group of Members. That's what it said on Twitter. Four private primary schools – Waldorfska, Alojzi Šustjar, Montessori and Waldorf School of Education. By not amending the law in time or at least by confirming the law put into the parliamentary procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party, you wrong the parents of these children. As my colleague, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, said earlier, they are paying 60 euros a month for not doing what they should have done. This is where we come up with a contradiction. While it is necessary to pay for a programme which should be co-financed by the State, conditions are being created that such education can be afforded more. This is said to be because you do not follow the Constitutional Court's decision, which requires that even private primary schools be financed 100%, 60 euros per month should be paid by those who want to go to school here. That's €720 a year. This creates conditions or creates them for what you fight against when you say that private schools are for the rich and public schools for everyone else. That's not true. That's not true. If the programme were financed 100%, it would not be necessary to pay this €720 a year and then anyone, including those whose parents have more income than those whose parents have little less income, can come. You are the one who, from January on, does not arrange for our youngest citizens and citizens not to be divided into rich and poor or those with elite private education and those with poorer public education, as colleagues from Desus would say. It is you who do exactly what you tell us that we are for private education and that through this private education then we prevent the education of those who cannot afford it. Of course, a lot of people cannot afford this if they have to pay 720 euros a year because you haven't fixed the law since January or at least confirmed ours. But that happens all the time. I often hear that we are here to protect minorities, that this coalition is here to protect minorities. Ladies and gentlemen, here you have a minority, four primary schools and children, but you are very different in protecting minorities. You are very different in protecting minorities, or these minorities are also first - class and second - class. When it comes to the issue of the same-sex, which is a minority, we should do everything we can when it comes to the issue of these children, but it can wait, even at the hands of the Constitutional Court. When it comes to the rights of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, we will immediately change the Constitution, recognize them as minorities and what I know what else. But when it comes to those who pay 720 euros a year to train their children, we will not do anything. It's been 11 months since this thing was supposed to be settled, and I'm sure there'll be a few more. With regard to the law drawn up by the Ministry, which is in coordination or under consideration, I do not know. The easiest thing to say is that we're preparing things. It's the same thing with a dual school system, it's the same everywhere else, not just in your ministry. I will not go to other areas where there is a serious problem in the area covered by the Minister. One problem is the sports infrastructure we have called for, but today we have just said that we will focus only on disrespect for the rule of law and disrespect for the judgments of Slovenian courts. But this is a practice in this House. Some have serious problems with the Constitutional Court, some have even voted against the invitation to a referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. We may not agree with the Constitutional Court, but we may not respect the judgment, but it must be respected. It's not just the Constitutional Court, it's the other courts. With such signals, you really divide citizens and citizens into first and second-class ones. But where does a policy that divides citizens into first and second-class, you saw in December 2012 and a month ago when you voted in the UN? In the same way and with such failures, politicians who divide citizens into first and second-class politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u98	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u99	Thank you, President. I would just like to explain which laws have been adopted since 13 May when this mandate came. The ZOFVI has changed twice, including at the initiative of the Committee, and we have also reacted quickly in particular in the provisions relating to violence, records and other important parts, which also concern material and human resources conditions for solving the implementation of the school programme, I am talking about primary school work. The Law on the Implementation of International Programmes has also been adopted, and this is what we have been waiting for from independence. We were also waiting for the adoption of the Slovenian Qualifications Framework Act, which Europe has been alerting us to for a long time. What's in the procedure? First of all, the novel ZVIS, as you yourself have already mentioned, in inter-departmental coordination is the Law on apprenticeship, and has also passed into inter-departmental coordination of the Sport Act, and is also part of the inter-departmental coordination of the ZOFVI on today's topic. What else is in preparation? In preparation are the Act on Primary Schooling, Adult Education, the Law on Kindergartens, which you will see on E-Democracy by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u100	Replica, Mr. Jean-Mahnich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u101	Thank you, President. In case the secretary didn't understand. Firstly, greater involvement of children; secondly, raising the quality of the educational process and the achievements of pupils; thirdly, professional development of teaching workers; fourthly, communication in the mother tongue; fifthly, social and citizen competence; sixthly, response of education to changes in society and labour market needs; seventhly, strengthening lifelong learning. Do you know what that is? These are the points of the coalition contract, these are the points of the coalition contract of the Government of Mira Cerar for the mandate 2014-2018. That's what I'm talking about, Madam Minister, not some correctional corrections that come through the articles just to do something. About these things. Not to mention the recognition of the experience of informal education, not to mention the dual school system, which is a pilot project and so on. I've been talking about these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u102	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u103	Thank you, President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think the Minister was talking about these points that you listed, Mr Mahnic. However, you mentioned that the Ministry has done absolutely nothing in the last year, but what the Minister listed and I will also count in my debate the fruits of the Ministry of Education's work. After listening to this debate on the Law on Financing for Education and Education, which is the essence of this interpretation, I can see that this Chamber is divided into an extremely private part of education and an extremely public part of education, and we, who are in the middle, are trying to find a central solution with the Minister in charge that is consistent with the Constitution. At this point, we could essentially complete this interpretation and then continue – not the interpretation, but the debate on it – when the Education and Education Financing Act is incorporated into the National Assembly, of course with this solution, as provided for in the Constitutional Court Decision. I think that would be quite enough. It may be another day, but I hope that, when the Education and Education Financing Act followed by the Constitutional Court decision is introduced into the National Assembly, there will be room for discussion on the subject. Otherwise, I am a more optimistic nature, and I want to see or see the more positive things that the Ministry of Education is trying to do with the Minister of Education, whose work today is under consideration in this National Assembly. I would therefore like to focus on some of the positive things that this ministry has done in this mandate and on the efforts that this ministry is making in some of the coordination, negotiation, some of the discussions and discussions that are taking place throughout the year. I would like to start with something more topical, a school diet. Despite the closed budget, the Ministry of Education has made a number of efforts to regulate this school diet and to extend the number of school lunches or lunches. The second thing I would like to mention is that the Ministry of Education has effectively addressed the provision of textbooks in primary school in the first two years, the renewed educational fund for the third educational period, the establishment of a systematic and sustainable system for the restoration of textbook funds by the end of the year, and in 2017 these teaching funds will be restored at all levels of education. The third issue is the introduction of a foreign language into primary school. This seems extremely important to me, because we are a small country seeking to learn a foreign language, so I think we should start in primary school. This measure has proved to be positive, with 68% of all pupils opted for this optional choice in primary school. The fourth thing is the Law on apprenticeship, which has already been mentioned today. This is a public debate. The Ministry has put it into public debate and this law will regulate the key areas or status of apprentices and the rights and obligations of employers, schools, chambers and employers' associations, and of course of all ministries. In short, the status of apprenticeship is being regulated. You've passed this law several times before. I hope that you will also participate fruitfully in this debate and that some consensus will finally be reached on this law, because I think that we could also collectively make a good law that will or would be aligned with both the coalition and the opposition. The fifth thing is the Higher Education Act, which also refers to constitutional changes. We discussed it last week. We had already had a "harvest" debate on this Higher Education Act, not to mention changes to this law, where funding of universities will be primarily arranged. Of course, there was a foreign language at the core of the dispute. I also had the opportunity to comment on this in coalition coordination and also at the meetings of the competent working bodies, however. It seems to me that this is the right solution, and here I am also encouraging the Minister to undertake as soon as possible a comprehensive revision of the Higher Education Act. However, this law is crucial and important for students to learn certain skills and move to the labour market in the future. On co-financing of a doctoral study, the Government has adopted a Regulation on co-financing of a doctoral study which adequately regulates and co-finances doctoral studies, so we have the whole diapozone or co-financing of education by the country to the last level of education, which I also think is extremely important and good. The second thing that is important and I wanted to point out in particular is that the Ministry of Education is conducting negotiations for the entry or accession of Slovenia to CERN, which would also have positive effects and consequences for research activities, for the entire education system and also for the entire economy. As regards the European funds for research and the integration of the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, I would like to point out that, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Slovenia has been able to obtain €55 million from European funds, i.e. the Ministry of Education will co-finance 9 projects worth up to €55 million. Let me also remember the plan for the development of broadband networks, which has in some ways been the last strategy we have not yet had or the most important strategy, including Digital Slovenia 2020, which has also been able to implement the Ministry of Education. I hope that we will also implement the infrastructure included in this strategy as soon as possible, but of course we need some additional resources to ensure this. There is likely to be some more talk about the Sports Act in the coming months or by the end of the year. After 15 years, if I'm not mistaken, this law will change, renew. Also in this law, the Ministry has invested quite a bit of time and energy and has prepared together with key stakeholders, I am talking about the Olympic Committee and other important sector sports associations. As far as investment is concerned, the Ministry of Education financed 10 key projects, worth 17.5 million euros. So I think that there are many of these positive things that the Ministry of Education has done under the tactics of this Minister, who is before us today, because of a constitutional decision that the Minister does not want to go to the door, or not that she does not want to, but is looking for a suitable solution for us not to make such important decisions. As I said at the outset, it seems crucial to me that there is ever a need to stop, to breathe, to change, to find the right solution. I think this minister is also doing so by not having this constitutional decision implemented. However, once again, I stress that this law, which is the subject of today's debate, is in interdepartmental coordination and will be in the National Assembly, I believe, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u104	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u105	Thank you. I have to respond to the predecessor, as this page is for the extremely private education system. No, no, no. We have a pretty good public network, especially primary schools. I will not touch the medium and tall and tall, for the first time, because I have a slightly different opinion, and for the second time this is not the topic of today's interpretation. No, we're just following the Constitutional Court ruling. I'm going to respond first to my colleague, Möderndorfer. I went over the entire Constitutional Court's decision once again. If anyone finds me a sentence in this Constitutional Court decision that favors privacy, let me know because I can't find it. The decision is only about what we have in the Constitution and what we should also have in marriage. And we don't have that. Once again, if that day is lost for anyone to apologize to the National Assembly, he can go home and remain on the payroll. Except in the morning, some – mainly due to traffic problems that will not be a problem – had a problem with access to Ljubljana, when we were probably all stuck in waiting lines in traffic for too long. However, those could lose their salary when, at the third call of the President to come check our presence and confirm the agenda, there was no. If anyone's got a lost day in their head, I don't think the president's holding anybody's pants here, so he should stay here. However, if the leader of the SMC Group holds you so briefly, this is the problem of the Modern Centre Party, not all others. Once again, for Slovenian citizens and citizens, nothing more and nothing less will be paid if it is interpolation or if it is not. I understand, however, the anger of certain members of the coalition that whenever the opposition announces that it is a lost day for them, but something is parliamentary democracy, even though you look at it with excess power and with a higher coalition majority, you must respect it. My friend Kamal spoke about everything else, but not the interpretation. And let me say it again. In the interview, Parliament raises formal questions to the Government or, in this case, to an individual minister, who must answer questions and thus justify his policy. My friend Kamal talked about everything else that the secretary did. I don't know if it's my desire to read again what the minister didn't do. I'll start with the researchers. Not two months old article entitled How Half a Billion European Euros Passed by Slovenian Researchers. Unlawful cooperation in the preparation of stand-by allowances, receipt of these illegal supplements. But we've only gone to the Constitution, and we haven't touched the laws, and it's likely that someone will ask the Minister about the Government's interpretation. Non-implementation of certain other decisions. Procrastination or non-admission of the Sports Act. I say meccalic, one of the most famous Slovenian athletes within this omis, Member of Parliament, told me only that such a law would not be adopted because the funeral of Slovenian sport will take place. So much for this draft Sports Act. The Law on Higher Education and the Law on Research Activities, which are already in the normative plan for the end of 2014 and for sure in 2015. This weekend I received two electronic messages again, what is with this question of the unimaginable conclusion of the transition from the old to the new Bologna system in students, when some because of their or others' mistakes did not complete this study, and now they have fallen into this machinery where the tycoons in the field of higher education will well earn and at the same time financially discipline students. In the meantime, the problem of school bazaars, where at least the last official response of the Ministry of Finance is that things are no better this December than they were last year. The Ministry of Finance isn't all the fault of the department secretary. The apprenticeship. Here we agree, we are on a three-fourth path to our draft law, which we have proposed for the first time. As I said in that law, it is the same in this law that the doors of the SDS Group are always open, and they are not so hidden in these labyrinths of the National Assembly that the Minister – even with the help of SMC Members, if necessary – would not find them. The area of sports infrastructure. We proposed an amendment last year. We proposed it this year. We called an urgent meeting. Something is improving in this area, at least in the light of the last draft of the rebalancing and budget for the next two years, so I hope we will scratch some more euro. But interestingly, once the opposition pushes, there's only a million of them. But when we talk about a constitutional decision, all of a sudden it is a global problem that should not be at all. For once again, it is sad that we are talking about the issue of this decision, which is about public and private, because we should talk about having a decision of the Constitutional Court, even if it were in any other field, and not talking about good and bad schools. So much for that part.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u106	Replica, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u107	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. Comrade Lisec, if you list what the secretary didn't do, I can tell you what the minister did. That's what I did. As for the interpretation itself, however, I concluded in two sentences at the beginning of my intervention or debate and, through my debate, also said that it is evident that the Minister has made this problem or the complication that has taken place, which is why we are sitting here today and why this interpretation is, obviously, she wants to solve it by putting the Education and Education Financing Act into public debate. As I said in my debate, there will be room to discuss the Law on the Financing of Education and Education in this Chamber or earlier on the Home Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u108	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u109	We're almost there, and we're gonna have the feeling that the minister is from the SDS quota. The apprenticeship is proposed, the minister continues. We're talking about sports infrastructure, the minister's listening a little. We're talking ZOFVI, he's listening again. But it's not finished yet. Once again, if the reason for the interpretation is that, in my opinion, an official in the Ministry has no knowledge of the Constitutional Court's decision or is unwilling to comply, this is a problem for the Minister. Once again – and I know that colleague Matjaž Han will talk about the opposite – more than this law will go in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, you will have bigger problems on that side, not on that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u110	Finally, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek and Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u111	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister! Tomaž became a fortune teller, and he knows exactly what I'm going to say, but he didn't make a big mistake. I listened to the proponent, Mr Tomaž Lisco, who explained widely why this interpretation and teaching us what the Constitution is. Then we went to the numbers, what's less, what's more. He said 40 is more than 39. I have to say, I didn't know that. That's interesting. As far as that's concerned, I found out something new today. I have to say that Tom and I are acquaintances, good friends, I can say, outside this hall, but that you are such an artist, that all these suggestions and initiatives and all these things, you have to be an artist. But when I heard Nado Brinovšek, I saw that this thing was ready and that the SDS didn't have much meat, as they would call it, and that it was basically about one sentence. In front of me, Mr. Shaker said that there are those who love privacy, and here we are, those who advocate publicly. But I have to say, he didn't make a mistake. The fact is that we are public advocates and will always defend these values. But the problem may sometimes be in the middle when they don't know where to go, and that's why we're in this state today. If we, the so-called left-centre coalition, had a clear position, we would have adopted this law long ago, which would say what it says now. Or we could change the constitution first, and then I would say to Tomaž that 60 is more than 30, and we'd have to deal with it in some way. So you can do anything if you have the will. Now, however, I would like to make another general assessment. We have recently fallen into some spiral of these interpretations filed by the biggest opposition party, but sometimes, if they compete, another small political party, from which there is almost no one in this Chamber today. All of us will get a little dizzy by these interpretations, but in the end, this question, however Tomaž says it costs nothing and so on, will be paid by people, because we have Members to do something else. I see, however, that neither is the great activity of those who invest in interpolation. If you are sitting in this room two at such an interpretation, and one of them is Tomaž, who has to come after everyone, because he is otherwise remembered in the headquarters, then we know that the matter is not serious. The next thing I'd like to say is that I can't get rid of the feeling that all the interpretations you're investing are not exactly related to some of the problems between people, but are purely ideological in nature. When we looked at the Minister of Health, it was the same – public, private, concessionaires, not concessionaires. Now we're interpreting the Minister of Education. It's the same. Not to mention that even the tragedy of children is being exploited, interpellation is being invested. But if there is nothing else to do with it, then a general interpretation of all of them will be submitted, so next week we will be discussing in this hall how bad this government is. With regard to education, I would say that there is a relatively turbulent two-year period behind this education and for this minister, which has been well upset by the decision of five constitutional judges who, in my opinion, have run away and also by previous judgments a confirmed relationship between the public and the private. Because of this obvious discrepancy, in our view, in the Group of Social Democrats, and also in the coalition, we decided to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution, which would preserve the constitutional concern of the State for public education, and private, ladies and gentlemen, we would leave it to the law. At the same time, we have made it very clear that we do not dispute – and you will never hear from me – the level of current private education funding achieved, that is 85%, and that we are confident that this framework should remain as it is. However, our proposal only takes into account important substantive differences and I must say that it was in line with the previous Ministry's set-up. However, if this does not happen, we believe that in some way we will also have to redefine the constitutional decision on whether Slovenia is still a social state. That is why this majority should appear in the National Assembly in order to be able to adopt an amendment to Article 57 of the Constitution and then the law. I know that education is a field of interests that his politics is hard to resist, and I agree with that. In doing so, I would also like to touch on the amendments to the ZOFVI Act, which, also because of this pressure of interpretation, the Ministry had to invest in cross-cutting coordination. Of course, that is not enough for some. It will probably say how this constitutional decision will be adopted in some way, but I would like to say right now that it seems to us that we have only seen a framework, particularly a controversial proposal whereby the Ministry or the Government should give its consent when appointing directors. The policy agreement to appoint directors takes us to a previous system and can go to local self-government, to various ministers who can come in dispute, and so on. I don't want politics to go back to primary school. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Proponents of full budget funding for private education like to say how to ensure that children in private schools have the same opportunities as their children in public. I ask you whether they have the same conditions or not because of private resources, they have significantly better conditions than children in public sectors or in public schools. When you apologize for how little money has to be given in order to adopt this law, let me remind you that it would be significantly better to let the ministry deal with how good public networks of primary schools will not abolish branch schools, such as branches in Osilnica, Cerknem, Šmar, Završa and Javor. But when that happens, you are the first to get upset, why some branch schools quit, and perhaps only 30 thousand or 40 thousand euros of money. Anyway, I'm gonna be a little ideological. Today we talk about it, tomorrow we will talk about what kind of religious person in schools, and we will have this theme all the time for some ideological bickering in the area where they don't belong. We were social democrats and will always be advocates of the public. I think we have a great network of public schools and keep it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u112	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u113	Thank you. First, I'm confused. The last sentence was how we have an excellent network, but earlier it was said how bad public schools are. Matjaž, you're the same [[…]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u114	Quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u115	That's what was said on your part. Then we can look at the magnetogram, no problem. Yes, 40 is more than 39, but in the coalition, many of you have a problem when the Constitutional Court tells you that 5 is more than 4 and that their decision is valid. I don't have a problem with that. 5 is more than 4, 40 is more than 39. I don't always respect them, but I respect them, the laws and the Constitution. That's the way it is. I'll start with branch schools and private schools if we close branches and we have private schools on the other side. The Ministry is the one that has all the levers here. Once again, I would ask the Minister to tell you where and how private primary schools can be established to see that there are no fun, that there is no – How does it say? – grave decomposition of primary education and so on. Once again, we are public too, but we are for enriching with private primary schools because we have the Constitution and on this basis the Constitutional Court has decided what and how. Comrade Matjaž, following a constitutional decision is not an ideology. I hope that we will agree on this once that we have the Constitutional Court and their decisions are not ideology, but that the decisions of the nine judges of the Constitutional Court are either 5 to 4 or 9 to 0. Or vice versa, when they do not accept and when he tells all nine judges that a particular case or a certain law does not need to be changed because of their decision. If some are so social, at least as I hear from Desus and SD, then we should put the amendments into the budget to make it possible for everyone. We know that's not gonna work. But we're only talking about private primary schools. It was said how the state financed it. The State shall finance exclusively publicly applicable programmes. Once again, I find it really difficult to hear about how rich and poor they are and how those of socio-economically poor families are worse off in success. Even less so, when some people talk about how rich private schools are, but what is above standard is not paid by the state, they pay the founder and parents of these children. I understand that a lot of people have some kind of family in terms of all the same, but all the equal in poverty. I really don't understand what the problem is for this one percent of the children in primary schools to give what is theirs. Not because it belongs to them because of the SDS, but because it belongs to them because of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. I really don't know what the problem is. Yes, colleague Matjaž, all around one sentence is bitching – failure to comply with the Constitutional Court decision. Pika. He is the director of the Minister of Education, where it is becoming increasingly evident today that he has a greater coalition problem than in the opposition by enforcing this constitutional decision. Apparently, according to our proposals for laws and after our interpretation, they moved on November 2nd, so I have now received information and put the bill into inter-departmental treatment. In short, we will not say that we succeeded in interpolation, because the result will be to our detriment, because we will not get any more votes than the ones you will defend the Minister, but we have only moved one piece if the change of law will indeed go in the direction that the Constitutional Court has determined.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u116	Replica, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u117	Very briefly. Tomaž didn't understand me. We don't trouble the Constitutional Court. Yes, 5 is more than 4, but we have the right as a parliamentary party to try to change the constitution, because they have just said yes to the constitution. It's about social. I know, Tomaž, that you probably don't know what the values of the social state or the socialists or the social Democrats are. I'm sure it's not money-sharing. It's definitely not money-melting. I imagine social as a fair and solidarityal distribution of the money you just have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u118	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Irena Kotnik and Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u119	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about interpolation in education and education. Of course, I can honestly say that this area is extremely important in the Republic of Slovenia. Throughout the day, we also listened to whether it made sense to spend that day in that hall or not. I think we will soon find out whether it would make sense in the coming week for two years and three months of the government of Mr Cerar or not. But I think when we talk about interpolation, let me repeat that when we talk about education, this is a very important segment. But we're probably facing one problem, especially with the Minister and the President of the Government. In my opinion, the Honourable Minister is, of course, a solution, an exit solution, because the third Minister is in the 23 months of rule. I know that two ministers or the Prime Minister failed. The first one had problems with one segment, the second one he took with a rush from the National Assembly had problems in the second segment. For you, too, Madam Secretary, after a while, it became clear that you had problems with supplements. But I don't want to talk about it now and waste too much time with it. What is your biggest problem, Madam Secretary? This is also confirmed by the directors of Slovenian schools. Even when I listened to you for the first two months, I was almost certain that the Prime Minister of the Government had struck with your expertise. Everything you said here in the National Assembly or on committees, you also spoke to the directors of Slovenian schools. But when we all expected action together, there were no more actions in the National Assembly as directors of Slovenian schools. Of course, it's probably not all your fault. It seems to me that someone doesn't have a solid spine, they don't help him with anything strong. This is, of course, true for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially if this is demonstrated today or throughout the entire mandate – because it has also been clear that we are too narrow, and I think it is right that we are narrow – that this interpretation, which has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party – I must also say that we have signed it together, that no one has raped us, as someone in this National Assembly has also said, was a joint decision – to respect the Constitutional Court. Today we have also heard a lot about what the decision of the Constitutional Court means a few months ago. Five votes and four against. I recall one Supreme Court decision when it came to a Member at the beginning of the term of office. How principled and consistent this was to be taken into account had to be taken into account. I say, and I think that you also agree that everyone in this national assembly agrees that this decision, which we have been talking about all day, which we have been talking about for several months now, is binding. That's a fact. If it is not taken into account, as you do not take into account, I will not claim that all this has grown on your cabbage, this could be the position of the Government, the Prime Minister of the Government, that there is a violation of the rule of law. But it is a fact that we are talking about an important law, a law on education and education. Today, too, many numbers have been told, how many schools in public, how many schools in private. The fact is that we have all found together that we have 4 schools in private, which is 0.8% in the Republic of Slovenia. I also deeply agree that these children in primary schools or as a result their parents are entitled to not have to pay for these children. Dear Minister, let me touch another law we've been waiting for, this is the Sports Act we've been waiting for for a while. But I'm afraid there's gonna be a marriage on the table that won't be for the good of sport. When we talk about sport, sports infrastructure and athletes, we are all too often witnessing that medals around the neck are given by those – but now I don't think of you, again, I don't think of you – who are taking the infrastructure in the field of sport, and above all take the athletes for their development and their conditions as regards training. Dear Minister, I will therefore vote in favour of this interpretation with all responsibility, as I have contributed to the signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u120	Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u121	Dear President, Honourable Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague, colleague! Today's debate is not the first, and I believe that it is not the last time that Members and Members of this National Assembly are discussing what kind of education and, above all, what basic education we want in our country. I am sorry that we have not talked about good schools today, about bad schools, about quality schools, about how private schools enrich Slovenia's space in relation to the tradition and development of individual education systems. The picture is not always as black-and-white as some want to show it, so I cannot agree with the statement made by the initiators of the constitutional opinion that comparison in European countries shows that private education is very poor compared to European education. Private education in Slovenia is well developed, but I would like to point out that further insight is needed. Looking forward to all the social changes we see in Slovenia and in Europe, we need to be aware of this and clearly define the conditions for the establishment of private schools in advance. Today's interpolation is aimed at reading the inequality before the law, which is supposed to be created by the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. The applicants thus point out that parents who have enrolled their children in private schools are also discriminated against because the country financed only 85% and not 100%. In doing so, I would point out that the Constitutional Court could only decide how to implement the judgment, as it has done in many cases before. Why it did not do so is an autonomous assessment of the Constitutional Court, but the question remains open. I believe that the parents who enrolled their children in private schools did not enter them because of the Constitutional Court's decision, but because of their own judgment, because of their world view, their ethical, their religious beliefs with their values and their concepts. Therefore, the decision to enroll children in a private school was their own and they were informed, while at the same time they were allowed to enroll in a public school. We have tried several times to explain why only a change in the amount of funding from 85% to 100% will not in itself eliminate inequalities before the law when we consider the proposal of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education introduced into the parliamentary procedure by the SDS Group. Whether or not you wish to do so, the 2014 Constitutional Decision indirectly raised several other questions relating to the functioning of private schools. This should address issues relating to the public validity of programmes and the evaluation of educational programmes. It is and must be responsible for quality education by providing adequate staffing conditions, by means of a network of public education providers and private school programmes that have become public. Most importantly, the novel ZOVFI proposed by the Minister follows the Constitutional Court's statement and decision. Private education is regulated by law in the Member States of the European Union. In the majority, the right to establish private schools is also explicitly enshrined in the Constitution, which guarantees the right to choose and the right to freedom of education. This is also what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires of us, as well as international documents. However, these records are also different in the constitutions of individual countries, so let us place on a flat-rate basis such constitutional arrangements that are closer to us at a certain point. For example, the Netherlands has equal funding for public and private schools in its Constitution. On the other hand, Italy already has a reservation at the constitutional level concerning the equivalent financing of private schools. Finally, other European countries have certain free education in their constitutions, but private school funding is generally limited, so it is important that we be careful when we try to cross-reference our constitution with the constitutions of other countries. Swedish education, for example, shows all the signs of inner secret privatisation or marketing. The objectives of education in Sweden were to ensure that schools are well enough to implement, produce and achieve education and, as a result, the role of director has changed. The principal is no longer a teacher's leader, but he's just a manager. Business, profit, selling products to parents and children are at the forefront. On behalf of quality assurance, different control techniques have been introduced, such as standards, evaluation, audits, performance criteria and indicators. Thus, the virtual free school market has become increasingly important for the Swedish business sector. Teachers from autonomous experts have also become service-oriented workers, leading to the grading of their competences. Sweden does not apply for teaching qualifications in private schools, and according to a survey 8 out of 10 Swedes gave a negative opinion against earning in education. In doing so, I do not claim that the Constitutional Court decision has given this a green light, but it is also necessary to be aware of such foreign practices as should not be followed. It is important that we strive as much as possible to allow general education for all the population and to allow for the highest possible level of education for the population while maintaining the levels already achieved. The Minister and the Ministry, with the amendment of the ZOFVI, follow the issues I have raised, and follow the Constitutional Court's decision, so I will not support the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u122	Mr Mitja Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u123	Thank you very much, President, for your word. What a rich day is behind us, we have heard a great deal of new news, in particular a few innovative ways from how we explain the decision of the Constitutional Court to what the consequences of this decision are. Somehow, I cannot avoid the basic thought expressed in the presentation of views, which we have pointed out several times, this is a matter of public and private concern. I think that this is not the issue at all, because it is very clear that the Constitutional Court has decided that the legislator has done the right thing and that the Ministry of Education is doing the right thing in allowing private education in our area. However, the question arises as to who or who should take such an initiative and how such an education can be carried out is also to be paid. It is more than clear that in the case of parents who have enrolled their children in private schools, in particular those without a licence – which are the subject of today's debate, if we are to really start discussing this – we should pay this from public funds. But there are quite a few opinions that say that this is not the case. In particular, those who have opted for a public school network — whether it is public institutions or private schools that have obtained concessions and have thus become part of the public school network — are two other types of schools that carry out this activity, either without concession or are not public programmes and are purely private schools. From there we ask the question whether we recognize or not an education. The question is not just about primary school; the question is about all the time education, including on the basis of free choice, where we wanted to prevent, above all, what today's interpolation proponent makes clear to us as the largest coalition party, which we have never said, nor have we thought or expressed in our actions. For us, of course, there is a private presence in public and for us privately has its legitimate domestic right in our society. It is, however, stuck to the question of whether this should be financed from public funds. The whole range of cases that I might have listed at the present time will be avoided, but where we ask ourselves what we will pay from public funds, especially now that the performance indicators are positive, when some who have participated in less favourable times or have failed to act effectively or have failed to act properly and have previously deepened the crisis rather than help us get out of it, do not take into account the fact that we are still deep below the indicators that have been in the period since 2008. That is why we are still facing limited public funding and these public funds, as specified, must be dealt with economically, economically, appropriately, prudently and could still be listed. In limited means, the legislator decided as he had decided. And you, on the proposer's side, will help and dig up the memory of why a diction came into the marriage in 1996. Whether this was an agreement between the coalition and the opposition, whether it was something that could have been accepted as a social consensus, that even financing of private schools that were not included — not through concessions or because they were established by the State or the municipalities — had stopped at 85% in the public school system or network. Of course, I cannot avoid what follows as an observation to the Minister that she did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision and did not implement it within the one-year period set by the Constitutional Court. The proposer initially threatened to react to the debate of anyone who would discuss certain issues. Like a fellow moon, which is unfortunately no longer between us now, to be able to answer this in the face, saying that we are not brave enough to make any decisions, which I must strongly deny, even though it has been a few hours since I have actually responded to such inappropriate and unacceptable manipulations. In the Modern Centre Party, we have decided to enter politics and act courageously all the time to make certain changes to cut across the practices of purchases and similar matters that have in the past also resulted in 85% of private school funding without concessions that are not included in the public school network. We can almost imagine. Those who have an EMHO like me, you know what I'm talking about, those who are slightly younger, and this went relatively past you, and you don't know what kind of arrangements we had at the beginning of our independent country. The 15% that tortured the motioners before the Constitutional Court are close to the 15% that the Slovenian Catholic Church is no longer prepared to finance. Now, of course, the question arises, who should we turn to, and as is our custom, and who, if not our country. Let the state have, for that is why we have the resources, and let it ensure something that someone in the past has committed to finance and is no longer willing to do. Eighty-five percent is the deal. Agreement adopted at the level of the legislator. I find no reason in the constitutional order, except among the reasons stated by the Constitutional Court in its decision, on the basis of which you decided to amend an unconstitutional provision of 85% of the funding due to the failure to implement the undertaking within a one-year period. Let's take a closer look at why. "Education is free. " – Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, first paragraph. "The state creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education." So much for freedom. The Liberals have no problem in paragraphs 1 and 3. The substance of the problem remained in the second paragraph, which says: "Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds. " Under the applicable law, 85%. Why an agreement has been reached by 85% and not any other percentage, as it is said, you will know the applicants yourself. You will also know this by those who have either been or have been monitoring the developments in the National Assembly, why such an agreement has been reached and a compromise has been reached. Because we have no choice in politics but to compromise. Why 85%? The other thing that gets in your eyes is this leap, if it's A B and it's B C, then it's A C. It's not always like that. This is what the English call it – although Dr. Gorenak says only Slovenian is spoken in Slovenia, I will take risks for all those who also understand English – "jump to conclusions". When we jump over, when we skip from thought that the consequences are something we imagined, especially when we would like to see them. From where did the Constitutional Court take this leap that he also used free education, if we know and many times also refer, honourable proponents, to the father of the Constitution, that it is explicit, which we all realize that we do not have a free education with us. Even if it is compulsory and even if it is financed by public funds, as all parents know very well, free education, so there is no school in which there is no cost. Therefore, it is a shame to say that, if it is free, then the State must provide and finance, because the Constitution thus states that it is financed from a public fund of 100 %, regardless of what comes to mind. No problem in the case of public institutions set up by the State or by the municipality and implementing a publicly applied programme under control, as directed, according to the authorities for which we have previously had, for one area or another, it is clear that we are recruiting and that we want to replace all supervisors. Of course, those who, on behalf of the public, participate in this process and who must follow the process, respect and act as I initially said that we manage the public finances economically, economically, as good hosts and, of course, respecting the limits we have. Similarly, the concessionaires, where the concessionaire enters into a concession contract and settles both types of issues – those from the private and legal sphere, so to speak, and those that he has to enter into a concession contract as an authority, than those that have to manage wisely, must deal economically with funds and that must achieve the best possible outcome with the means at our disposal. The better the result, which is sure in what we are dealing with today and what is evident to the ministers, is that primary education should be such that all individuals in this society have the basic knowledge that, of course, they will either continue education or be able to participate fully in society. If we only go to the question of public programmes now. Public programmes adopted by the State through its competent authorities. Is this also about those who imagine the programme they would like to implement and offer it in terms of what we also have in the Constitutional Court decision? So as a complement, as a matter of privatisation, as a matter of enriching our school space. I've never and never claimed to be leaning on one side or the other to the detriment of the other. It is very clear that co-existence between public and private must necessarily lead to the final effect that they are both better. Private because it is in competition with public and public, because it is facing private competition. We have never restricted these options, and you will never find that we have advocated any way of limiting a private initiative in this area. Private schools exist and private schools, of course, implement their programmes. As I would like to ask in what other area, I will also ask in this area what leads a private person who establishes a private primary school with the same programme as a public institution. Who's in charge? Whether it is a private person implementing a programme on the basis of a concession or a pure private person. Logically, it is a different programme or the implementation of this programme that we could also discuss. Finally, in this public programme, it is only essential whether we recognise it or not. Of course, it is a matter of whether there is the same programme in public institutions as there is a programme in private schools that have either concessions or concessions, and it is based on a clean contract between the Ministry, which is actually in a goodwill situation, to what extent we can afford to finance the implementation of the education programme in private school from public funds. Surely only this basic idea can be managed by the Ministry to enrich the space to raise the quality of both and that a clean privateer is interested in offering the best possible programme to obtain as much resources as possible, because it is easy to identify this ministry as a quality that enriches the space and, on the other hand, also helps the same ministry in another sense because it is faced with competition by a private sector, where parents have the right to choose by law to include children in a network of public schools or private schools that have concessions or are even without concessions. This freedom of choice is, of course, good for all and as liberals, the distinguished representative of the proposer, it would be rightly ridiculous for us to read, which you can afford to read flatly that this would not be in line with our policy. Freedom of choice, however, is the basis of our policy. Therefore, you must not judge by yourself how we think and how we act, but we must offer clearly the basis and the commitment that you have originally given such a vehemently warning that we care little about and that we do not respect our programme. Of course, the rule of law is the basis of our programme and we respect it in this case. You could also say a word about respect and respect or performance on this basis, as has been said, but the story of respect for the court, respected by colleague Mahnic, was created by your client. Since then, we have been using it in our space of separation on respect and disrespect for the decisions of the judicial branch of power, so that I will not only say it to the Constitutional Court. So when we think about these things — if we leave only content, which is certainly important, but is not essential for today — today we have interpolation back on the table. As I am at every interpolation, let me repeat once again that I hope that you will ask a clear question on a beautiful day, but not just consume a series of readings when you are putting in an interpolation. Because it's easy to answer the obvious. But if we ask a clear question, the one that bothers me, and now I will not say it for the political-portunion reasons that I hope and believe that today, if not, the Minister will answer us all, then we will be able to talk about what is essential. Not wasting everything around, to what you have now enjoyed on your side, Mr Podkoršek, things that have nothing to do with neither the Minister of Education nor today's interpolation, some general perception just for political reasons. Let's get real, let's cut back on our interpretations and deal with some fundamental issue that even in this interpretation, although the basis is very clear, you haven't asked and is the only question that is here. This question is when will we come to the end of the non-compliance established by the Constitutional Court. Let me repeat this again, because for the first time in this subject, it's not easy to do this. We delete the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Financing of Education and Education and this unconstitutionality is abolished. That's easy to do. The Constitutional Court does not speak of a percentage in any place. These are only the reasons cited by the initiator for the Constitutional Court’s assessment. Nobody talks, and nobody in this room in particular, until the secretary tells us that, doesn't know what a hundred percent is. What do we have to finance to cover what is your basic thesis and the move you want to achieve in this interpretation and which you have already tried twice, and I have answered you twice? What's a hundred percent? One hundred percent of what should be financed by the State? Parents have a choice. Parents knew that they had enrolled their children in schools where there was tuition. It is not written anywhere, nor does it follow from the Constitutional Court’s decision that such fees as are paid today at these schools, which are now private and without concessions, should this amount be paid by the Ministry or the Republic of Slovenia from budgetary resources. These parents will still be able to have their tuition. Even if there is something that we think of today as the 15% that we are about to pay, they will still be able to face the fact that they will have to pay tuition at these schools because the law allows them to do so. Because he doesn't impose any special restrictions on tuition. This is a private school that offers and implements the programme and, on the other hand, parents who want to register and want their children to receive exactly the same primary education in a private school that does not have a concession. You have more than enough reasons in the Constitutional Court's decision. I'll avoid the risk of you reading me five to four, so I'm not talking about five to four. I am simply talking about the predominant arguments that the Constitutional Court has cited as the basis for its decision, which I can comment on and respect. We are trying — if anyone, I am trying — to come to a solution to this question. I do not contest that the Constitutional Court has ruled as it has decided. This does not deprive me of the possibility of commenting that in this same decision of the Constitutional Court there are a number of shortcomings, a few leaps of thought, premature conclusions and, on the other hand, sufficient arguments to be made in the preparation and adoption of a new law that will remedy the found unconstitutionality as soon as possible. You are well aware that more than half a year ago, I took my own public stand for this and that I hope and expect that by 1 September 2016, the law will be passed. The law is under consideration, it is ready, and I hope that we will come to a new law as soon as possible, with common powers, in which we will remove all the dilemmas we have today. But once again, as it is said, unwarrantedly to the minister, the basic question is quite different and we will have to discuss it seriously. Of course, you, Minister, are fortunate enough to get the best possible solution to this issue as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič was not well understood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u125	Thank you. I am pleased when a doctor of law and a professor at the Faculty of Law admits that he can comment on judgements and the work of the courts and comment on his opinions, because I remember what serious battles they had in the 2008-2011 mandate when the Slovenian Democratic Party opened up the problems of justice, if you can't let God forbid anyone to comment. Here's progress. This is the only place I wasn't understood about respect and disrespect. It wasn't about that, Mr. Horvat. I said we can respect or we can disrespect. I do not respect Slovenian justice, but it must be respected. This is the difference between respect and respect. We can respect the judgment, and we must respect it, but we may not respect it, and we must also respect it. Respect in every way. I wasn't talking about respect and disrespect. I was talking about respect and disrespect.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u126	/ off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u127	Thank you. I say that I am always interested in hearing mainly lawyers, not because we had one such word war with Mrs Kotnik Popot before, but because I have two lawyers in my immediate family, they are very interesting debates. But if I ask the two lawyers in the immediate family what is the difference between respect and respect, they will say that the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected and taken into account. Here we have another decision of the Constitutional Court. "The first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86 of the ZOFVI is, in the part relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes, inconsistent with the Constitution." And this has to be resolved within one year. Did you do that? Have you considered it? I appreciate if you've made a personal effort to make this work, but it's not working out. I'm surprised by the lawyer's words, and I apologize when you said - of course you can comment - that they were too hasty and they were too quick to conclude. But even the National Assembly sometimes adopts stupid laws, and they are. It says what's in the saying. Even when we adopt laws, we do not get – with the exception of rare laws with comments – an explanation to Article 1, to 2. A member. It's not in the Official Journal, and the Official Gazette is that merodal newspaper that says what and how it's right. In short, it's interesting that the Constitutional Judges ruled too quickly. I hope that whenever the SDS Group doubts the decisions of the Constitutional Judge – let's leave the voice ratio behind – that your debate will not be exactly the opposite, how it should not be commented on and everything else. You asked me what to pay for. What's in the Constitution is clear. The primary school is compulsory, followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, so we know exactly what the state should pay for, and these are publicly valid programmes in primary schools. No other schools, only primary schools. What are public programs? They have hands, they have canvasses and scissors at the Ministry. Like I said before, if a private school wants to introduce a special subject, parents should pay for it. If he wants to have any extra help, his parents should pay for it. It's like a super standard for us. Either we go to our standard below the cafeteria or we go to an elite restaurant where a meal is probably 25 euros, we get paid for lunch as much as it is. The higher we have to pay for it ourselves. The decision of the Constitutional Court to respect the parents of these students is the same. So what's the payoff? Public programmes shall be paid. This, however, is so logical and so often recorded in a decision of the Constitutional Court that we should not really be asking questions. You were talking about what you should be asking yourself. We should ask ourselves whether the Ministry has complied with the Constitutional Court decision within one year. We all know what the answer is. It's not because you had a deadline of nine. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth I appreciate that there are still certain other questions that are open, but you had 12 months of time, and then this year, after we introduced the law, you put something on E-democracy, which has not touched this topic at all. Now that you have an interpellation on your agenda, on November 2nd, you quickly gave some kind of law — something that would have to last for a week — which you put in interdepartmental coordination. What's going on in this area is solely because of the SDS, because we're pushing you because of the Constitutional Court's decision, not because of ourselves. Dear Vice President, there is no need to knock on the microphone, not too loud, not too long and probably not offensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u128	Thank you very much. You've been too long to report a replica. The replica is three minutes. [[advertising from the hall]] You said a replica. That's why you're the proposer, but I've waited a little longer, and that's true. Mr. Podkorishek was not well either. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u129	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. I applied to the replica because Dr. Horvat mentioned my name. Dear Dr. Horvath, let me say that when you go to the elections, it can be a joke, but when the elections happen, and when you step into the coalition and take over, the work begins. You have to be aware of this work with all your responsibility. I have talked today about two things: the Sunday of this minister and this government and the failure to respect the constitutional decision. I think that citizens and citizens expect all of us who have been elected to this National Assembly to adopt such laws as will be for the benefit of Slovenian citizens and citizens. That's what they expect from us. Whoever doesn't understand it, if the coalition doesn't do it, the opposition either interpellates or seeks faults or warns against wrongdoing. Today we are talking about a lack of respect for the constitutional decision, and I am also talking about the Sunday of this minister and this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare the mags. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! The red thread of today's interpretation is certainly a decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm not going to go into this because I'm not a lawyer, but in front of me, colleague Mitja, he's kind of described things in a broad way. But as far as I know the secretary, that's what she's doing. But it's not that easy if someone thinks they'll be safe in one year. There's a lot of things that need to be matured, and even ideological things are in between, but I'm not going to tie it to these things. Thank God we are now talking less about these postwar killings than we used to, in fact, every interpretation of this speech. Here something has started to change, and I must say that with what started here this year, when the law last year proposed New Slovenia and this government actually listened to it, things have started to change in this area. I think that's very good. That's less talk. I might start by trying to light things up a little differently, that things aren't as bad as they've been saying lately. In recent times, we have had quite three interpretations, from the Minister of Infrastructure, Health, now education, of course, followed by the whole government. Many times I listen to experts when they discuss politics, whether domestic or foreign. Last week I heard from a recognised expert that Slovenia does not actually have bad infrastructure, does not have bad health, and education is very good. I may be able to stop at the infrastructure in particular. Many who listen to me now in Koroška will wonder if I am a bit crazy, since we do not have the right road in Koroška. It is true that this cross is not yet complete, but when the third development axis somehow completes this road connection in Slovenia, I think these roads will be very good and that things will somehow achieve that purpose and the basis for further work in our country. I feel the same way about the economy. The minister promised this, even at the interpretation itself he mentioned it, and the Government, which was in Koroška, promised it. Of course, I trust both the minister and the government. That's not what you do, I follow the events, and it will be. Health care. Of course they're ahead of this Minister of Reform. I trust in it that these reforms will also take place, so that even here, when we talk about some waiting species, things will work out. And there's something else. It's a school. We have good schools, from high school to high school and so on, as you can see in graduates who finish and who work abroad. I must say, they are highly appreciated outside. Why don't they get a job at home to go abroad, of course, is another story. This government is also not to blame for the fact that things have changed so much that there has been a crisis, which has been going on for a long time. I might briefly outline the history of ministers in the field of education, because I was in school for 24 years, of which I was four directors. I must say, the first minister who worked very well, professionally and did a lot, certainly Dr. Gaber. It was also mentioned today. I'm not going to say that in his second term, when he was a minister again, he worked at such a pace. Of course, he was more involved in politics at the time. But then I'll move on. One in ten, eleven ministers have been replaced at this time. I certainly have to mention to Dr. Beast that they won't say by the SDS that we're just criticizing them. He was a very good minister, he was able to talk to him and save himself a lot, but I certainly cannot say that for another SDS minister from their government, Dr Turk, but I would not discuss it in more detail. It was said by SDS, a colleague of Krivec, that differentiation in primary school was as if this was the fault of this minister. I know her. I know that when students come from elementary schools to high school, in fact, if I make it very simple, they sort of group into a group of little better ones that they prepare for demanding high schools and high schools, and they leave a little worse behind and they're more for vocational schools. Surely something will have to be done in this area, but this has been dragging for a long time, and this is hardly the matter of this minister. Speaking of private and public, the Minister has never spoken or has ever been in her statements against private education, but is always or always says that private schools are complementary to public schools. Today, it has been found that interpellation is indeed an inventory of the work of a minister or a minister. I can tell you that a lot has been done in the last two years. I certainly cannot agree with my colleague Jean Mahnič when he said that this minister had done nothing. Looking at the Ministry of Education and Sport, three key strategic goals have also been successfully pursued in the past year. Firstly, to accelerate and expand the participation of education and science with the economy. I think that the current Minister is one of the few who connects and talks so clearly in his performances and talks that he tells us what needs to be done to connect with the economy. This is seen everywhere, even after funding has somehow been known to listen to science and later research and development, because in science it has increased by as much as 5 percent, so for this year and next year the index is 105.6 or, if we look at the value, it represents 155.4 million. I know that the Minister has been attacked many times – I think five times – since the Law on apprenticeship by the SDS has been introduced twice. But there was nothing wrong with it. In fact, I have always debated, engaged in this area, but the fact is that this ministry wants to resolve this field of apprenticeship systematically. This is why a pilot model is somehow being prepared, where, in fact, 200 students from one generation from all over Slovenia will be fully involved, where the best things will then be discovered. The Minister is aware that the dual system or apprenticeship that was abolished in 2006 – I will not say that this was in the SDS government, because it was abolished because it was not possible to work at the time because the funding was unspecified. It is very easy to drive a system as long as the European money is running out and the European money must be financed by the economy, which has proved to be, but of course the system has failed. It sounds very good that we have to follow models from Austria, Germany, Switzerland. Of course we will. But we have to find some kind of agreement here with the economy, with the trade-and-trade chamber. In this area, things are being prepared and I think that such a systematic apprenticeship law will nevertheless solve these problems, because the key basis of the economy is certainly apprenticeship, because for apprentices or students going through apprenticeship, apprenticeship is a way of practical learning or training and the first contact of these students with the real world. I agree with that, and I certainly support that. That's not the area you're working on. Many times it has been reported that the minister does not listen to this, but the amendment of the law is in preparation and will soon be on the committee. Also in the field of sport, there is a law on sports in preparation, but something was financed here too. Two top sports facilities opened – the Nordic centre of Planica and the Gymnastics center of Ljubljana. The Ministry of Education and Sport co-financed both projects from its own resources and also from European funds. This year, for the first time, a two-year public tender for co-financing of youth labour worth €2.4 million was also launched with the Office of Youth Affairs for co-financing youth labour programmes in 2016-2017 implemented by organisations in the youth sector. There was a lot of work done in primary schools, too. During the school year 2016/2017, students will be studying or already learning a foreign language in Slovenia, as they completed the project of gradually introducing a foreign language in the second class. This started already in 2015/2016, when more than 86% of primary school students chose foreign language as an optional choice. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič appointed a working group to regulate the situation of another foreign language in the primary school, which prepared the starting points for public debate. At all levels, all segments, areas of education are therefore being invested and worked. Certain things, as I mentioned at the outset, which are linked to ideology, must be matured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, let Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Saša Tabaković prepare. Here you go, Mrs. Bojana.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After a good eight-hour discussion, all those who sit in this Chamber for most of the time could say that we could conclude this debate after three hours. For if we listen to the content, almost all Members talk very little about the various things or we could contaminate them in good three hours. My debate won't be any different either. Today's interpretation is based on the responsibility of the Minister because she has not yet implemented a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014, which provided that additional public funding should be allocated to private education. The decision of the Constitutional Court is unusual, however, since it bypassed its previous judgments by a decision and overlooked the many questions it raises after the equalisation of private and public. This decision was taken by a decision of five judges. Now I could tell you why I think so. I think you should look back a few years. In 2001, the Constitutional Court stated that the legislator’s decision to finance the state in its entirety is only public schools in which all parents can enter their children in the field of its assessment and therefore is not contrary to the Constitution. The decision of the Constitutional Court in 2001 was unanimous. In the Belgian Linguistic case, the European Court of Human Rights also considered that the State was not obliged to establish or finance private schools, but, of course, it must not prevent or prevent their establishment and operation, nor can it be challenged. Neither do international declarations and conventions impose financial support on countries for private primary education, but it is true that they do not prohibit it. From this point of view, it is also possible to understand the views and the fact that, as a rule, private education is given a lower share of public funds than private education. Slovenia is among the most generous in this regard, as regards public financial support for private education. It is already true that in Slovenia private schools that implement publicly valid primary education programmes, basic music education, secondary and vocational education and high schools account for 85% of the state budget. Private schools also have the opportunity to participate in training competitions and teaching aids intended for public schools. Funding is a very complex issue. Possible implementation of 100 per cent funding interferes with the fragile principle of the world-renowned lazily public school in Slovenia. It is about equalising funding that clears the line between what is public, state and what is private. The Minister of Education and Sport took over a very wide area during her term of office. In my debate on appointment, my support was linked to clearly identifying and demarcating public and private in this mandate. Of course I expect her to fix it. I want to touch on just one more thing about the system of education or primary education. The first and most serious more difficult level of education in a child's life is the primary school, which children with six years of age enter. Many feel that children are too young or that they are the most beautiful children of all time and that they are too early. This claim can be confirmed, but we do have a nine-year-old who needs to be overturned and the learning process adapted to the needs. All too often, we also face the impression that primary schoolchildren are too burdened with all the tasks and requirements imposed by teachers and the learning process. Although this burden is not new, it is on the rise and we have been faced with it since the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgl has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are interviewing you today for disregarding the Constitutional Court's decision and for violating the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia! I hold the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in my hands. This is the highest legal act to be respected, especially if you are still part of the three branches of the Authority, and therefore the Constitutional Court's decision must also be taken into account. Dear Minister, perhaps it would not be too much if you, too, had repeatedly taken up the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as any other minister of yours, such as the Minister of Justice, who also has the reputation that he likes to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in addition to the law. Today, when we talk about violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, another question can well be raised, which is related to the fact that it might not be bad for the ministers to swear not only to say that they will respect the constitutional order and work according to their conscience, but to actually swear physically in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that I will not say in the Bible or in the Scriptures, because they would probably take me away from the hall. But it is similar in the United States, where they actually swear to the Constitution and the Bible. That's because it gives a much greater weight to what you then do in a position like the minister's. I am convinced that if such an action, if not just you, were to speak of the entire ministerial team – in fact, a physical oath on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, would also give a physical weight, which would then, in particular, be in the minds of our doctors, who we have very much in this reference to Parliament, even in the field of law, even constitutional law, a greater awareness that the Constitution must be respected and, as Minister, enforced by the decisions of the Constitutional Court. But, Madam Minister, in this government, I must be honest here, you are not the only one who violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. You are not the only one who violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia during this term. What you have done is often the conduct of your ministerial colleagues and our fellow Members sitting in this national assembly. In this mandate, we have a very unique and first-class structure of doctors of law coming in particular from the Modern Centre Party, which should already provide an excellent overview of the obligations and commitments assumed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court. But look at the fragment, and here it breaks. We have most of the Doctors of Science in this National Assembly, most of these Doctors of Law, including Constitutional Lawyers, but in this mandate we have the most violations of both legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and thus human rights violations. If you can, Your Honor, tell me what you think of this. Are you feeling well in a government like this? Are you feeling all right as a minister in a government like this? I will not go into what was negotiated with you at the beginning, that we had great problems by finally reaching the Minister of Education in this mandate, but it would be good to answer the question of how you look at the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. What does this book mean to you personally? I can say that we are all called here to especially protect and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, especially because we are still a very young democracy, because we must work intensively to preserve democratic postulates. It is therefore necessary to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and their legal protection. For one of these reasons was the reason for the establishment of our new, young country, which, of course, is also dealing with some cramps due to young democracy, but if we had previously the Writing Constitution, if we had the Majni Declaration, and in 1991 the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted, then we must be aware that all of these are the foundations on which our new country was founded and where human rights and fundamental freedoms must be respected. But I'm gonna go a little wider. In this mandate, given that I am talking about respect for the rule of law, respect for those fundamental fundamental human rights, which is also the application of decisions of the Constitutional Court, regardless of what the result is or how many of the nine Constitutional Judges vote in favour or against, if the result is ultimately such that the decision is, in this case, co-financed and subsidised by private schools. Then you, Minister, are obliged to do so. And you've been waiting two years to take this matter to its end. This concerns me personally, given that I have previously heard from colleagues from the Modern Centre Party, that this is not such a problem in fact and that you are aware that this needs to be addressed. Then why are you deliberately stalling? Yes, not only because there are partners in the coalition from SD who, of course, are opposed to all the weights. I hope, however, you have so many spines that you know that this is your decision to comply with, because that is what the Constitutional Court has said. I hope you have so many spines if there is no other minister who will be second-guessed for violating human rights. I hope at least you have so many spines. So in this National Assembly, we have an incredible diapage of lawyers, doctors of law, who are always proving that this constitution is just some kind of arbitrary, flexible text that you can do whatever you want with it, or interpret it by any means. You're interpreting everything, that's obvious. For six months, you've been working with doctors in the coalition to take away Janez Janša's mandate. The Constitutional Court then told you that you acted unlawfully, unconstitutionally, but you continue to do so. And no one has justified this unconstitutionality, for this grave, grave violation of human rights. A grave, grave violation of human constitutional rights. You took the man's mandate. If the memory does not deceive me, the first of the same, the pressure between the pares of this national assembly said that if the Constitutional Court said that the mandate had been revoked in a non-constitutional manner, it would withdraw from its position. Even today, it is still in this position, and in view of the debate by the coalition Members today, you too will remain in this position, Madam Secretary-General. Why is that? I am increasingly finding that this coalition, and obviously also the Government, which, although created on some humus of ethics and morality, really cares about the rule of law and thus the just state, is very concerned about power and the maintenance of the function. If that were not the case, today some ministers would no longer sit in the government of Dr. Mir Cerar, who is by the way a constitutional lawyer. Your Government still has a minister who has violated several laws, several regulations, violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as the Constitutional Court has said, but is still in its position. It's the minister, how interesting, for justice. He is still in his position because he is protected by the President of the Government, who is a true doctor, even a doctor of constitutional law. Pervert! But that's the situation in this coalition and in this government. How can a citizen trust in the rule of law in such a multi-level set? How? How can the institutions of the rule of law be trusted, but if the highest representatives of this country, who are also doctors of law, act peacefully in contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, they whistle at the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but at the same time when they make mistakes on purpose, even though they are doctors of law themselves and know this very well, as was the case with the withdrawal of Janez Janša's mandate, they do not answer. They don't answer and stay in their positions. How, then, can a citizen trust in such a country that he will be assisted by this country, that he can believe that if he is wronged, that he will be tried in court and that the court will act in accordance with truth and law, not on the basis of political preferences? Unfortunately, this irresponsibility from the judicial system also moves to the executive branch of power and to the Government led by Dr. Miro Cerar. Unfortunately, it seems that some individuals who are law doctors and I believe that they can be excellent in their field after they come and take political office begin to think very flexibly about the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the problem. But something else is important, Madam Secretary-General. By disregarding the decision of the Constitutional Court and delaying the enforcement of this decision of the Constitutional Court, you also detract from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But it is not surprising to me personally, given that there is nothing to say about the fact that in some Slovenian schools, which should be concerned about what the independence of Slovenia represents, that students should learn about the achievements and values of democracy, which includes respect for and the exercise of human rights, they prefer to call on Yugoslavia and Tito's pioneers, to act contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But from you, Madam Minister, I have not heard any serious warnings about what you will do with those who violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. I have asked a number of questions on this subject. Last but not least, such an event took place at Beečevje Primary School in Ljubljana, where the parents who attended the primary school were concerned – this celebration was dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the school, where they expected, of course, to hear about the history of the school, its achievements, growth, creativity and so on – to find out that we are obviously living in some abnormal, ideologically perverted environment. For at the celebration the disciples "played the scenes as it was once and today, and you guessed, the emphasis was on once. They staged the admission of children to the pioneer organization by giving titans, red routines, and a festive pioneer oath. It continued with the scene from the class under Tito's painting, which began with Za narodina with Tito onward, and the school lesson about our homeland of SFRJ, its birthday, egg, marshal and so on. The present at school was shown in a scene where students argue with a teacher and threaten to grieve her parents." Then he adds: "The truth of the love must be said that in the end the singing choir did sing some songs." I then asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because of this letter, which I received from a concerned and dismayed parent, a number of questions sent. Now I ask you, Minister, do you find the behavior of the principal of the elementary school, who allowed this ideological abuse of children to be professionally and ethically acceptable? I'd like a public answer from one of you. I also wonder whether you will act against the responsible person who, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, magnifies the totalitarian system which has grossly violated human rights. I also want to know what the parents of these children can do in such a case of ideological abuse and what their rights are. I also wonder if you agree with such indoctrination of our children. This seems to me important things that will let you know what your way of thinking as a minister of education is, whether it's actually just about, I don't know, not a quick enough reaction to the disrespect of the Constitution of Slovenia or whether it's some mode of operation of this government. We can see all of this through these questions. Madam Minister, I will support your interpellation. I know it will not be voted on, but I therefore expect you to resolve this situation with regard to non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate on interpolation has shown that certain policies are highly opportunistic, ideologically defined to the issue of the educational system in our country. As was already clear from the previous debate, on the one hand, we are troubled by the fact that the school ceremony is wearing the totalitarian regimes of our past history, and on the other hand this same parliamentary group does not have a problem when, say, the newly established school or the opening of a new school or kindergarten comes to the Catholic priest and dedicates the school. So I don't buy this moralization myself. It has also proved ideologically that some Members are also defining themselves until a decision of the Constitutional Court to order the equalisation of private school funding with public schools. The fact is that this is a matter that the decision addresses, in fact, a broader social issue, which simply requires us to identify what kind of education we really want and where the basis of the access to education and the obligation of the State to make it available is, of course, a reality. In order to be able to better understand the prevailing situation, which, I agree, is to a certain extent poor, we must of course look at what has actually been happening in the past in the field of the history of school legislation. Almost two decades ago, we witnessed a major school reform under Minister Slavko Gabr and his professional colleagues, which, through a white book, introduced conceptual solutions to the system of education and education based on the principle of elective subjects, the expanded subject, the combination of external and internal differentiation, simply softened the difference between public and private education or never highlighted it in a way that these two planes would also be easily demarcated according to the type of role they have. They had this chance, they could have done it, but they didn't. Probably because of some political rifts that took place in our country in 1996. It was simply then that this reform also made moves, whose short-sighted fruits, of course, we also enjoy today. Since then, legislation has not changed significantly in a way that has been broader in its response to this complex problem that we are dealing with today at the time of interpretation. Instead of having some reasonable insight to deal substantively with the difference between public and private, today some MEPs have once again confused themselves with ideological Flossules, which I think is certainly incorrect, so I would like to point this topic a little differently in my debate. If we want to focus on the importance of education or education and education, we need to ask ourselves on the basis of what tasks are actually performed by public schools and which are private and what is also the primary responsibility of the State in the form of funding. When we talk about public school, we are simply talking about a public network of schools that provides two extremely important educational principles for our society. The first is the development of science and the justification of its objective facts, and the second is the unification of the general ethical value system of our society. The latter seems particularly important to the quality socialisation and integration of growing individuals into our community. What does that mean? This means that regardless of the personal circumstances of an individual enrolled in a public school, what his social status is, what his religious belief is, the public school of all these diversity is simply in some way coherently uniform to the extent that with some common values we can live without some major, cultural, conflicts in our society. Thus, the defence of the objective treatment of the world through science in public education also attempts to manifest itself in the way of equal treatment of various philosophies and beliefs, views of the world, which the public network of schools then through some learning process of course also places in some common value system of our society. If, of course, private schools can also recognise this quality of science development and the rationale for the objective facts offered by science development, then, in my personal opinion or belief, the fundamental question remains to what extent private education, created by an interest group, can, in fact, fulfil some standard principle of common life. As a rule, the interest group is always framed by a specific social, cultural, value dogma. Doubts as the essence of the liberalisation of the spirit and of some civilizational progress are not only human rights, but it is a fundamental foundation that actually makes man human. This means that every person has the right to ask and learn anything, without certain institutions, and in particular educational institutions, to find a certain outcome unspeakable, which means that a young learner’s mind, instead of a wide-ranging, untabulated response, is given a narrower view of the world solely because of some partial beliefs of the same institution or interest group. That is why, in my opinion, the question on the ground is how many institutionalised stakeholders are really needed in order for a single, common value system to spread out to this extent that instead of living together in each other's gardens of value and what this actually entails in the examination of fundamental civilisation standards, which ultimately also concerns our constitution, which some would very much like to swear in concrete terms, because it would also produce more concrete results. However, I do not wonder what this dictatorship really means for the rights already acquired, which are also guaranteed by the Constitution. I think that this question, or the quality address of this issue, is, in my personal opinion, an essential distinction between what is the sociological role of public schools and where the private school space actually appears within it. Therefore, the question on the ground is how the State regulates this distinction also by law, how it regulates it, so that we can talk not only about the interests of the individual and his rights, but also about public interest as the interests of the common good in the light of quality coexistence. The system of full equalisation of funding for public and private primary schools, without consideration, certainly also paves the way for a voucher system, where the State would allocate certain funds to the individual for his education, i.e. a voucher, which would then decide on what these funds would be spent on, which, of course, means the privatisation of basic education by the system of ranking schools. The various programmes would then, of course, require a variety of resources, which means very generally that school enrolment would depend heavily on the social status of parents, and of course my legitimate fear of segregation would also arise on the basis of their specific circumstances. This is also something that is in fact human rights, and such segregation is also prohibited by the Constitution when we are actually saying so much about it today. We must not forget that, in my opinion, even now private schools accept some unreachable criteria when they enter, of course, except as parents, that you must agree with their educational principle and the world view of the school. This fact is simply not negligible. Public schools do not do this differentiation in this sense. In the final stage, the Constitutional Court found this to be the case, which imposed the equalisation of funding exclusively for the compulsory primary school programme, which is the same as the public programme, which, of course, does not hold to an extended programme and additional school content, i.e. those who actually benefit from the offer of a school space and who are in fact dedicated to the role of private schools. This means that, of course, a constitutional decision requires that children attending a public-application programme also be granted equal treatment by the State and will also be granted equal treatment by the State, because, in fact, they are already doing so today, which does not mean, of course, that the parents of these children will not pay certain contributions if the children visit certain content or perhaps because of the need for a certain maintenance of the infrastructure and so on, because the private school will still have to provide a certain percentage of its own resources to cover these costs. What does that mean? This means that parents will simply continue to have to pay their choice, which is perfectly normal and right, despite the Constitutional Court's decision. By speaking of equality with the law, of course, I can fully agree, but it is necessary to say which part of this equality also relates to funding and in which part it exists and will continue to exist. In fact, the law, which, after a public hearing is concluded today in cross-cutting coordination, addresses the issue of public and private schools in an integrated manner, even in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, as it distinguishes funding, the importance of funding, also introduces safeguards that are much more restrictive in terms of when a private school can actually be opened and which quality criteria must be met so that a school can also work in a way that evaluates its work on a regular basis. This means that the Ministry has in fact put the Constitutional Court's decision, as it predicted, into a broader context of understanding the educational policy and thus, in a certain part, also eliminated those problems which have been the subject of a profession all along – those 20 years since we last actually amended this part of the legislation – simply left to politics. The law, which bypasses the Constitutional Court's decision, is, in my opinion, correct and good, so I hope that we will get it to the National Assembly in a short time. However, I would now like to make a brief comment on the amendment of the Constitution, because today this issue has also been raised by some Members, or the process of constitutional change that is taking place in the National Assembly. In principle, we support the amendment of the Constitution as well as the modern centre Party, but it will certainly be necessary to harmonise the consensus on how to write this sentence into the Constitution in such a way that it also makes sense in the light of the above-mentioned voucher system. It is therefore necessary to define the obligation to finance the public school network and, of course, to make a distinction between public and private at the constitutional level. I understand the thought which was also open today, which is probably not only the thought of some Members, but also of some legal experts, that it is probably not a hygienic change of constitution on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, but we must be aware that the National Assembly is, of course, a political body, which is not only a legislator, but also a legislator, and is, like a political body, committed to amending the Constitution, because the simple understanding of constitutional requirements changes over time and these changes of course also require appropriate answers. The decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue as an interpreter of the Constitution has, in my opinion, only helped me to understand the Constitution as an ethical foundation, but certainly not as a concrete wall that cannot be touched by the National Assembly. Because if that were the case, then, of course, the National Assembly would not have a mandate to change, but if it were a constitutional majority in the National Assembly, that would be 60 Members or more. It is essential that the change of the Constitution, if any, understands and encourages private education as a means of enriching the school space or educational process and not as a consequence a common model of privatised state education. As long as this solution is, in fact, very similar to that of the ministry – that is to say, a solution to this 20 years long-standing mystery on this subject – I never think the proposer will have my own but also the voice of the entire SMC Group for Interpellation. In the SMC Group, we wish ministers much success, and at the end of the term we believe that it will be very clear that the result of its work will certainly not be negligible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u139	Thank you, Chairman. As some of the issues have been raised, let me also summarize a few of our answers to this, but of course also a series of challenges that all of us face in this House. As far as today's debate is concerned, in the light of the Constitution and the constitutional principles, let me stress in particular the respect for Article 2 of the ZOFVI, which is in fact based on constitutional principles and which speak of fundamental values that we must respect not only in primary education, but in education in its entirety, let's say ensuring the optimal development of an individual, regardless of gender, culture, social origin, religion, racial and ethnic origin, nationality, physical, mental constitution or disability, promoting an individual's awareness of individual integrity, developing awareness of nationality, national identity, behaviour about Slovenia's history and culture. Education institutions therefore develop awareness of national ownership and national identity by marking holidays. In short, all of these principles, which are written in several indents, of course, apply what the principles of the Constitution tell us all. Why am I starting this introduction right now? Because some places have been exposed, how and in what way will we maintain respect for the Constitution and the application of its principles. We are also committed to this from the point of view of today's debate on public and private, as well as from the point of view, which, I would like to stress, should bring us all together again in the search for the best quality that we can offer to an individual child through the educational system. That is why we have opened a number of projects at the Ministry and have also initiated the development of the normative foundations that I have already mentioned, both in the field of the Basic School Act, the Law on Organisation and Financing of the Educational Education System, the Law on Adult Education, the Law on Sport, the new starting points of the system laws on higher education and the Systemic Law on Science and Research, the laws already adopted in the field of the international programmes of the ZOFVI in the field of the type of progress that is required, however, for a good material and human development base and so on. Why am I stressing the normative part in particular? This responds to our strategic starting points that we have set ourselves not only in the ministry but also in the government. The government has focused a number of priorities that we have already discussed today. We have three priorities at the Ministry. Connecting education, science and research to the economy, development and quality assurance, excellence, talent and opening up of school space also in a way that encourages all of this not only through integrated resources, but also through development projects that we draw from European funds. Open learning environments, empowering a teacher, professionalizing a teacher, precisely because of the new current social conditions and the difficulties brought by the new generations and, of course, the whole society. Then opening up learning space and linking science in a way like already mentioned projects of smart specialisation, such as strengthening young researchers, such as strengthening infrastructure, including sports, such as strengthening and developing technological transfer and also transferring social skills, I am talking about the balance of social and technological innovations. All of this includes our ongoing projects. They also cover early employment, cover researchers with a new career path, include, as has already been done successfully, the integration between the economy and education units in the way that young people deal with concrete projects and with concrete solutions to real problems, and thus make it much easier to evaluate their transition to the labour market. Why am I stressing all this? Because it has been heard that nothing has been done in the spirit of everything that is bound by both a normative plan and, of course, constitutional principles during this last good year and a half. I think it is with these projects, the careful use of integrated resources, and in particular by planning to pursue strategic objectives, that we have applied exactly what you have pointed out in the last round of the debate. What do we all want with this? Not only do we apply what is promised to us, but we also carefully and carefully discuss and make changes. School space is a place that needs to be modified in a calm manner, to be upgraded evolutionaryly, not changed overnight. I therefore understand a number of Directors, Directors, Directors, Directors, who in the light of the type of changes recently made and which need to be implemented, including legislative commitments, that they are further burdened by being able to organise and carry out quality education at their school. In the light of this, in today's debate, we wish to stress that there is a need for a calm, thoughtful and transparent response to all the challenges and, above all, all the commitments that have been made, and therefore a sound response to the inter-departmental coordination on today's topic. I expect that there will continue to be a debate in this area on the type of elements that we have opened, but for which we are committed in the light of social change and, above all, the thought that has also been given on your part, what is public, what is private. Finally, it is important, regardless of which school the children are in, to follow commitments already at the beginning as a basis of constitutional principles, but at the same time Article 2 of the ZOFVI implements or requires implementation in the way I presented it at the starting point. If this is not fulfilled, we have inspection services, which, most directly and indirectly, check the implementation of all the commitments we make in law and, indirectly, often direct application in accordance with constitutional principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mrs Anita Koles. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! I am aware that it is difficult after more than eight, nine hours of debate related to this interpolation to say something shocking new or shockingly interesting, so I am not pretending to succeed. At the same time, I cannot lose the feeling that the opposition is somehow becoming a hunter on the number of interpellations put forward by individual ministers and ministers of this government. But nothing wrong, this is the legitimate right of the opposition and also the time spent in these discussions, I do not understand as lost, but I see or try to see maximum constructiveness. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič is, in my opinion, a very good minister, given my understanding and the monitoring of her work. Throughout all this debate of those who advocate interpretation, it is somehow possible to understand that the red thread of your readings is, of course, that the truth is loving in the period from the issue of the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014 to today, what some of you or all of us expect has not been done in this area. It was not done, which does not mean that the Minister, the Ministry, the Coalition, if you want, does not respect or comply with this decision. Of course we do, of course we respect this decision in one way or another, although we do not necessarily agree with it. I think something has been done in this area. It has been done that it is in the procedure so-called ZOFVI or the Education Financing Act. I am sure – but I do not want to be contradictory in my implementation, it is not the only decision that is not implemented, but it is not an excuse – that it would not be right to rush solutions to take reckless steps, reckless moves and then do more harm than good. Let me remind you that it is indisputable — as far as I am concerned, as far as Desus and the bulk of the work or the entire coalition is concerned — that we advocate publicly. We are public advocates in the field of health care, we are public advocates in the field of education, which is the subject of today's interpretation. If this is an ideological definition, it's an ideological definition, and of course I'm not running away from it. We will endeavour to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states, inter alia, that education is free and primary education is, as we know, compulsory from public funds. In doing so, it is necessary to complement the issue that private schools can co-finance, but to a limited extent and in a manner that is determined by the law, which I am sure we will adopt. On this occasion, I must say that it was a very unfair debate by my colleague, Jana Mahnič, who somehow put into our mouth what was not said in any way, and even less so that Desus was the one who wanted to somehow divide children on one side into elite private education and, on the other hand, poorer public education. Of course, in my advocacy of public education, which, by the way, is excellent right now, which is incontrovertible, we do not want to see a privatisation of the school or educational system come to the point where what is actually public or what is left of the public is worth all the pity, bad, uncompetitive, while only the children of rich parents can decide on elite education. Let's take a look around, we can look the other side of the Atlantic, and we'll see where these things can, of course, lead to. Here, in this place, I say once again that our public education, public education is excellent in terms of expertise, that geographically well-covered – I will then touch on this – and organisationally, human resources and I could list it perfectly optimally. Of course, we must never be satisfied; we must never reach that point in order to avoid existing, even such a good system, to upgrade, to supplement, to improve. I think we all have to go this way. Above all, we must strive to do so, this is my position to remain our education, our education neutral, both in terms of ideological beliefs, world-viewed, religious and philosophical views. I will not repeat here what colleague Marjanka Kotnik said when comparing those two decisions of the Constitutional Court, one from not so long ago 2001 and one from late 2014. The one in 2001 says that "the legislator's decision to fund the state in its entirety is only public schools where all parents can enter their children in the field of its assessment and therefore it is not inconsistent with the Constitution." Then comes the decision of the Constitutional Court 13 years later, which is enough for someone, for a few people who say that certain matters need to be changed, because they are not in accordance with the Constitution, one of the constitutional judges also says: "To what extent the state will finance primary education is its sovereign right." A summary of everything that's been said. Of course, we will do our utmost, not to avoid a decision by the Constitutional Court, to supplement the Constitution and, as a result, to adopt legislation in order to have a positive impact on schoolchildren in particular. That the child whose fears have the means to educate him should not be educated, and those who do not have it, unfortunately, will remain deprived of that education. The answer is itself offered here. The solution is in public education, public education, all accessible education. Here, of course, a little criticism must be, but it is not a criticism directly against you, Minister, but perhaps on all those monetary "actions", let us be able to discover and pour pure wine in the entire educational system, from kindergarten to college, that is to say the university where they take more resources or resources each year, to materialize all that is written in the laws and which are full of our mouths, both politicians and all other professional and lay public. I'm very worried about what I said a little bit earlier that the relatively good geographical coverage of primary schools is. Relatively, though, since we have recently witnessed the abolition, I do not even know all the branch schools that are being shut down, even though it takes extremely little resources to keep them alive. I think it's time to make an effort this way so these schools don't stop. If ATMs can be placed somewhere on the periphery, there must also be a place for some department of primary school. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure, of course, that children have adequate teaching aids, that the ceiling will not be torn to the head of the students, that it does not fall away, and that what we have witnessed recently is that children in school will not be hungry or that the social situation of their parents will not result in segregation of the youngest in primary schools. There's no tolerance here. This is simply to be ensured in all that is, of course, part of the implementation of compulsory and extended public education programmes in our country. Not to be misunderstood, of course, I am not against the establishment of private schools in principle, it is my personal opinion that I do not see any need to establish these schools, but I cannot accept the privatisation of the existing school education system. But this one could be on the long run, not easy, but it would be harmful if we let it. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. The minister enjoys my undisputed support for her work. Minister, you will enjoy it until you are a public defender or advocate of public, public and public education again. I don't see any reason for this thing to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u143	Thank you. Allow me, a few coalition members went a little beyond the Constitutional Court's decision. Mrs Muršič, the decision is unusual, but this is the decision of the Constitutional Court. Dear Member, you may also be asked how unusual decisions are, but people need to take them into account. For you it would be that people have to respect the laws, and we, Members, do not have to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. If this is the dictatorship you are going to in the SD Group, then it is likely that the Minister will leave the coalition rather than the coalition minister. The previous judgments were discussed again, and also now colleague Prikl referred to the 2001 judgment. Will I have to say again at nine o'clock in the evening, what is the 2001 Constitutional Court's judgment, and what is the 2014 judgment? We are talking about the 2014 decision. No one has a problem with the 2001 decision, when the Constitutional Court said that primary schools, secondary schools, higher and higher education do not deserve the full funding of public programmes and everything else. Pika. Nobody gives a shit about that. Only you point out that there is not yet any new composition, which is not yet a completely radically left and has not yet been quite accepted, and that there was obviously a problem because there were five to four. Then quite a few of the candidates said that we have a fragile principle of lay school, what is the problem with this school's neutrality. For someone, pioneers and red stars are neutrality, but not for many. But to those who have problems with these pioneers and the red stars, you mock us, even though we have in that field the decisions of the Constitutional Court that say what and how our symbols are. And you whistle at it, even in the National Assembly, you're happy to act and dress up into different five-scroll stars. Tabakovic asked earlier what should be paid for in this private school. Once again, the decision says: "The law is unconstitutional in the work relating to the publicly applicable primary school education programmes." This has to be equalized. Why am I talking about this? Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to reading this ZOFVI, which will obviously finally change again, we also have a Regulation on the criteria for the creation of a public network of primary schools and everything else. There is no fun at the expense of this funding of the publicly applicable primary school programmes, the whole network will suffer. Why not? The second sentence of the order says: "The public network of primary schools consists of public primary schools and private schools with concessions." And today you are trying to deny this, despite the law, despite the regulation, despite the Constitutional Court's decision. Of course, then you excuse yourself that there is no money. It's money. Only priorities have to be right. But if the money is for everything else, I think it's right that money is also for decisions of the Constitutional Court, for which you all today emphasize how they should be respected and respected. As I have already said, although we see that today we will not succeed in interpolation, you can give us at least one commendation that with these amendments of the law we have tabled and today's interpolation of the SDS opposition is driving you forward when we keep this document constantly, that you are 11 months behind in the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. If it were not for us, I am sure that there would not be a novelty of this law, but we would have gone even further in this direction, which you have written down to amend the Constitution, that the unconstitutionality which five judges of the Constitutional Court have found in their decision must be abolished. This would be if, in the SDS and in the Slovenian public, we did not ask ourselves how we do not respect the constitutional order of the ministries headed by the Prime Minister and Members and Members of Parliament. If that were not the case, at least some of the minimal support of the machinery, which just cannot miss a ten-hour debate, would not be the case. But it's still happening slowly. 9. 1. was the deadline, you give a draft by April, then by September you freeze everything, quietly, nowhere to be found, and then in early September the Government's interpretation comes and suddenly we have the law written and inter-resort coordination. And I'm wondering if there's gonna be a marriage in the next three months, what your answers will be. Why am I saying this? In both of the proposals of the law that you rejected, all of you have given a vehement emphasis to the government's opinion. All Members of Parliament. That we have a Constitutional Commission in the National Assembly that debates this issue. And now all of a sudden, the Constitutional Commission isn't like that in the first place. You said earlier that we would wait for the Constitutional Commission's decision in the National Assembly, and now it is all of a sudden a priority to enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. Why? Why wasn't the Constitutional Court's decision in the foreground 20 months ago? Because you thought we'd all be quiet. Because you do, even those who are in the public eye, who just freeze to death when you hear the word in private, problems. Today, as a cat around hot porridge, some Members have debated that you are private, but I hope that Members of the SMC are aware that you are members of the European Liberal Group and have a lot of problems with such a minimalist decision by the Constitutional Court. You're making excuses. To date, it has been how the Constitutional Commission is and how it has to be resolved systematically, but I am sure that in the coming months, at least in the part of the coalition, there will be another problem that you will have to resolve, all in order not to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court or to follow as little as possible the decision of the Constitutional Court. Even more catastrophic is the fact that, obviously, in this coalition, when something does not fit them, by the Constitutional Court, we make a circuit and adopt a constitutional law or change the constitution. I ask you, from now on, will you change your constitution every time something doesn't fit you, which often happens? I ask you whether, in your opinion, we still need the Constitutional Court or whether we need it only in the case of a ruling coalition, or whether we need it to decide everything else, which is their task, namely to determine the legality of the laws as well as other initiatives by the public concerned, which turn to the Constitutional Court with various questions. In short, we saw a call today. All of a sudden, there's this new bill that's going to save everything now. After we've been after you in the SDS Group for 20 months, while you're pouring manure on us, then you're going to give a draft law and say it's the rule of law. Why haven't you solved this in three months? Don't tell me you can't and I don't need to know what systemic solutions. You can do anything. The priorities must be, and you wanted to put these priorities together with the Constitutional Court's decision to put them under the rug.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh and Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u145	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! I will begin my debate as I began my position this morning. Unfortunately, we live in a country where the government, which does not respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, does not respect the decisions of the courts where the ministries do not respect the legislation and where those who point out the problems are essentially punished, not those which they create. Given the way the debate is going on, we are not talking about public or private health today. I used to get a call from a colleague who said, "Hope, what? Are you talking today and deciding whether it will now be public or will it be private health?" I said, "No, no. Listen a little." She said, "I'm listening, but I can't understand it from the debate because that's all that's said." Indeed, the coalition, because you have no other argument to defend a minister who has not brought a decision by the Constitutional Court into law, cannot do anything other than that. I mean, after all, there's no way a man can blame you. In fact, we are discussing today that the Minister should take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court adopted by the Constitutional Court in December 2014, published in the Official Journal 2015 and entered into force in January 2016. This Decision states that there is a need to eliminate the inconsistencies with regard to public programmes that have so far been financed at 75% for private schools by pre-financing of 100% as publicly applicable programmes in public schools. And a dot. We are today discussing this decision of the Constitutional Court, which has not been transposed into law as it should be. The fact that this did not happen has already been pointed out by the previous President of the Constitutional Court, who in his presentation of the report on the work of the Constitutional Court for 2015 warned that policy, be careful, in the last two years, as he said, postpones the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it does not agree with them. He also pointed out that this is very problematic from the point of view of the rule of law, especially if non-implementation is conditional on political or ideological conditions. During the Constitutional Court's decisions, however, he specifically mentioned the still pending decision on the financing of private primary schools. This is not my claim as Nada Brinovšek, but this is what the former President of the Constitutional Court said when presenting his report on the work of the Constitutional Court. It also pointed out that this decision was still not implemented – I think it was 1 June 2016 – that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, when the expert at the time of the amendment of the Organization and Financing Act, warned that this period, when this decision was to be transposed into law, had expired on 9 January 2016, which is true. "That is why the National Assembly must implement this decision as soon as possible, as otherwise it violates the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and must be implemented in due time by the National Assembly." This is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and not the opinion of the proposer or myself. In view of the fact that we have listened primarily to the debate in public and private, we have also heard about post-war killings, the third development axis and so on – as I have said before, I do not blame you for not being able to defend the Minister because she has not done her job – in this debate I will focus on the answers of the Minister, which she sent to us on our interpretation. I won't say anything else. What have we ministers been reading in this interpolation? We have given her the responsibility for non-action and delay in drafting a new law on this decision of the Constitutional Court, we have given her responsibility for violating the Constitution of Slovenia, we have granted her the suspension of the duty of acting as competent ministers and the creation of inequalities before the law. Everything is related to this Decision. The Minister – I hope that you have all read her answer – writes: "I completely reject the perceptions resulting from this interpretation as unfounded at all points." Tell me if you understand this differently, because I understand it by denying the Constitutional Court's decision because it is unfounded. We are absolutely nothing more than what is evident to her or determined by a decision of the Constitutional Court. If this is unfounded, God protect us from such a government. Let's move on. The Minister further states: "The Constitutional Court has not taken its decision unanimously, but by 5 votes to 4." I mean, it's just funny that we're still going to talk about this a lot today. I think that even first-class kids would understand that if a decision was made with 5 votes and 4 against, the decision was made. We don't have anything to talk about here anymore, either we do something or we don't. Next, the Minister writes: "The decision of the Constitutional Court has also triggered, inter alia, an initiative to amend the Constitution." That's not true! The initiative to amend the Constitution was launched by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han. That's not a big deal. But not the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you what the former President of the Constitutional Court said about the constitutional change. He said: "In the event that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia amends the Constitution and the financing of private primary schools would have been otherwise regulated by the Constitutional Judges," he said, "remembered that the National Assembly would have bypassed the decision of the Constitutional Court and that the question of whether such omission would have been admissible or not." I think that such a statement should be considered a little bit. The Minister further states that the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly had met, but had not taken any final decisions because it had been interrupted due to a considerable gap between Members and the profession themselves. She'll probably continue her work, that's my guess. I am surprised or grateful to the Minister for saying that a number of interested stakeholders, such as trade unions and so on, have responded to the decision of the Constitutional Court by means of professional discussions. Minister, I must commend you here because this is probably the only ministry that takes into account the opinions of other stakeholders or professions, while on the other hand we see the Minister of Health, who writes in strict secrecy all the legislation he does, does not take the profession into account and so on. In its opinion, the Minister also stated or stressed that the new legislative proposal is based on new social situations after a comprehensive resolution of the private schools issue. I had already asked in my position, and I thought I would get an answer from the minister, who these are new social situations. I don't think you think it's just some coalition or that SMC is some new social situation. I don't know. You'll tell. I hope so. Minister, now you also say that after the adoption of the new legislation, more private kindergartens have been established, three primary schools and three secondary schools. I think that my colleague has already said twice, and I also said in my position that we have 98.4% of public schools, 0.9% of schools co-financed by private schools, and only 0.7% of students who attend independent private schools. If we are then afraid that one school will be set up more, but I think the latest data that the four private schools of Boyd have been set up are also some calculated costs of EUR 300,000 in order to cost this country more, I think the state or the ministry is aware that, on the other hand, if a school is private, then the state does not have to invest for equipment and so on, so the state gets one, two, three back. [[…]] You also say that when parents enrolled their children in school this year, they were informed of the legislation in force and that they were also aware of the funding conditions. That's not true, Minister. They were not aware of the funding conditions. Parents believed that the State or the Minister would prepare an amendment to the law in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court stating that, from January 2016 onwards, parents would not co-finance the 15 per cent or around EUR 60 per month, or that this would no longer be their contribution. If you find that negligible, it's one nice electrical bill or a utility for a month. This misdirection, Minister, is completely superfluous. I am also surprised by this statement of yours, where you say that you believe that private schools operating in the Republic of Slovenia and having gained public validity have proved with their result that the educational work is carried out in a qualitative manner. Nice and good. But why, then, in the following sentence, do you say, that clearer regulation of these issues is necessary for the creation of new schools? If they're doing all right, if there's competition, why? I hope that it will not become a habit for you, as in the Ministry of Health, where analysis is done for analysis, but we know on what basis and how those analyses are done. This is about your answers to our interpretation. I cannot go through with this, I think that colleague Tomaž did not mention some of the discussions of fellow Members who seemed to me, I will not say funny, but rather sad for this institution here. Comrade Wilfan somehow dedicated the first part of his discussion to us and told us that we are going here in the National Assembly by reminding us of this mistake or the work of the minister, some show or kindergarten. Dear fellows, if there is any such opinion among you, I don't know if we deserve to sit here or not. He further said that this interpretation is not about implementing the decision into legislation, but that today we will somehow argue whether private or public health, yes or no. I think my colleague Wilfan understood this interpretation completely wrong. If I go to my colleague, it's a shame there's no one in the hall right now. This said that the country was obliged to ensure the quality of public education, so the Social Democrats of interpolation would not support it. If that's an excuse, then I don't know. He also says that the Social Democrats do not support interpellation as some kind of extension for the decommissioning of public education. I don't know, we don't have any extension for decommissioning public education with this interpretation. I think I'm gonna tell a lot of people by their homework, by their fantasies, or by their imaginations. I must say, at the beginning of my colleague Kustec's position, I thought that, thank God, at least someone understood what we wanted with this interpretation. I agree when he says that a fundamental commitment is a responsibility to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Great! But in the next part, she jumped on the subject privately and publicly, what to do and how to finance herself. She saw that with our interpellations – she's the fourth in a row – we're going with some prestige. I don't know, dear fellows, the opposition is to point out the mistakes made by the coalition. I don't see any prestige in these proposals for interpretation. She seemed the luckiest to me, and at the end of her life, she was a colleague of Violet's. This is the only one I've listed right now sitting here. You said the Constitutional Court decision was wrong. If we have such a relationship to the Constitutional Court, if we have such a relationship to the decisions of the courts, it is true, as I said at the outset, that God protects us from such a country where a government that does not comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the decisions of the courts, the legislation and so on. I believe I've already said that in the beginning that today you find it difficult to defend the minister's work. And I'm not going to say a bad thing because there's only something going on in the field of education, but that she didn't comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and what the Constitutional Court did to her. After all, I don't blame you for talking about public and private, my colleague was talking about post-war killings, about the third development axis, about pilot projects, about health reform. It's just something to say that time somehow fills up. One more time, fellas. Today we are discussing why the Constitutional Court's decision has not yet been consolidated into law or why it has not prepared a new Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Once again, the ministers are held responsible for non-action and delaying this decision of the Constitutional Court. We see her creating inequalities before the law and abandoning her due conduct in the exercise of a political function. I hope you guys understand our interpretation. Here we do not go public and private, but we simply point out that the decision of the Constitutional Court should somehow be passed on to the law by January of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Allow me to read the other panellists: Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Franz Jurša, Mr Jože Tanko and Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer. Here you go, Mrs. Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Something has to be said that time is running out or something. This was Mrs Brinovšek's debate and her debate really proves this. I must say that I am very proud of my colleagues and colleagues who have discussed this subject today. I think they spoke very strongly about today's topic and, of course, about our Minister, who is preparing to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. I myself would like to say a word in this debate. In a public medium, it was said that the question of what kind of education we want cannot be decided by five judges, even constitutional ones. I have to say, I agree with that very much. The Constitutional Court found, in its position in the decision, that the concept of the school system was inappropriate when, in its judgment, it took the view that the State was obliged to fully finance primary education, whether by public law or by private entities. I don't think you need to be overly aware of the proposals, because if everything were as simple and uniform as you now imagine, then of course there would not be as much opposition or at least, let's say, different views as to the Constitutional Court's decision. Of course, I won't tease you with that score 5-4. A colleague of Vesna, who is a very respected professor and one of those professors who really advocates the school system as it is in force, and knows him very well, said that the Constitution of our education is the White Paper on Education and Education and no one has changed this school constitution so far. As the President of the Constitutional Court himself welcomes the fact that we are critical of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, I hope that I can comment on the decision in some part myself. When I look at the argument concerning the international benchmark, which, I don't know, might mean that times are changing, but with it European school systems, we see that the Constitutional Court here, of course, had a fairly difficult job. The distinction between public and private power is inconsistent, which is understandable of course, and therefore this argument does not contain simplified comparisons. It is very easy to operate with data on extremely low percentages of private schools in Slovenia compared to the European average or even with selected European countries, without taking into account a number of important factors. However, even if we take into account the data on the extent to which the European state co-finances private schools, we can quickly find that Slovenia has even exceeded the European average of private school funding with 85% of the funding. When we make these comparisons, we need to be well aware of private education arrangements in the countries of the European Union. This is about as if, on the basis of an international comparison, Members would deny our children the right to school meals and lunches, since no system in primary education in Europe knows this. This would then be the main argument on the basis of which school meals in Slovenian primary schools would be decided and abolished, which is, of course, total stupidity. Another important fact that puts the judges of the Constitutional Court in a somewhat delicate position is their understanding of this international comparison in the light of the commitment and freeness of primary education in relation to public funding. This comparative analysis, which is in fact not available in the argument of the Constitutional Decision and, of course, is well known by the professional public, follows the importance of the principle of the sovereignty of a country's decision, or to what extent it will finance private schools. Then we could also say some of the arguments put forward by the applicants for amendments to the Amendment to the Law on Financing for Education and Education, for example, about ensuring the right to free primary education, and then adding a 20th point of the Constitutional Court's sentence to ensure, through the full state funding of the programmes in force, the right to visit a public school programme free of charge, regardless of who is implementing it, we have already found that this argument relates to a right that is not, so there is no. Our school is not free, as parents are still paying for both textbooks and other activities, which are part of a public programme in primary schools. The minister was also told that there was inequality before the law. The current proposals by MEPs and SDS Members would not in any way reduce inequality, since Article 85 Amendment does not prohibit, for example, the charging of tuition. Therefore, simply amending this Article, as has been seen by the proposers, even in terms of reducing inequalities, does not constitute any added value. However, it is also in these procedures, which have led the applicant to an interpretation, to find a good side. At least I always find it, and I think that we are all together, by finding that the constitutional decision has sparked many important debates, good professional studies, a series of excellent articles whose red thread is an opportunity for appropriate reflection and political discussion on the financing of the network of public primary schools and the need to maintain accessible education for all. That is why our Minister of Affairs also engaged in an open debate and consensus with school stakeholders, if I summarize or paraphrase Mr Žigo Turk, who once had a desire to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and this has by no means succeeded, and now, of course, this wish is very well realized by our Minister. Since I don't have much time, I'll just say this. I think that the most important proposed amendment to the regulation so far in the law is the uniform provision of the objectives of the education and education system, at least so we are aware of the changes that are coming. In our country we have once accepted them, we have accepted them through social consensus, and they do not change for students of public schools, nor for students who want to attend a school where education takes place either according to the Catholic ethos, the values of any other religion or possibly the Waldorf way of teaching. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Kolesh. Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Jože Tanko have the floor. I'm sorry, Dr. Trček is still ahead of you, and for Dr. Trčko, Mr. Jurša. I'm sorry, Dr. Duck. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. We'd save 20 minutes, but thanks anyway. I must say, I am pleased to hear this debate, even though I am very bored. Why? Actually, because it's not that much of an interpretation here, but it's an interpretation. I've heard many times today, partly in the office, partly through the stream in the car, partly here, the word neutral. There is no neutral school and there is no neutral constitutional court. That's a fact. What are we talking about here now? Whether we are talking about these seven or eight points or, on the other hand, nine points, whether we are talking about a decision by the Constitutional Court or not. With regard to the first, I can cynically say that before the arrival of the government of Mira Cerar SDS in the decade before that, from 2004 to 2014, more than half the time in power could have been 7 or 8% of private schools, but you did not coexist. But if we are talking about the Constitutional Court, I will only say that I deeply agree with what one former Constitutional Judge states, which is also a German practice, that the number of constitutional judges and judges is a judge and not a villain. I would immediately support such a proposal. Since school is not neutral, today it is essentially an ideological debate, which is nothing wrong, which is nothing wrong. We come from different ideological poles, we represent different views of education and we live in the 21st century. That the school in the heart is ideological, you can see from the fact that when a coalition is formed, usually the so-called winning party takes the school resort. This is not only in Slovenia, it is also another common practice. What we're talking about is that it's kind of easy to mix two things up. This point of view on failures and on the judgment of the Constitutional Court is within the rhetoric of SDS, which is prepared for interpretation, very convenient and very well taken in 10, 14, 20 hours, as the time is. It's that boring predictability. On the other hand, there is a boring predictability of everyone else within an ideological position, sometimes even the United Left, if I am self-critical of myself and also of mine. Of course, the school’s field and education are not neutral. Yesterday, my daughter and I were looking at some study papers. Soon it will be 8 years old and we currently have this boom called the quasi-business in primary schools. Then there was one question, if he understands idioms and then the sentence goes on. I would like to talk about such matters here, but most Members and Members probably don't have as many children in a school system as I do, I don't know if anyone was born in a branch school as I am, but maybe they don't even realize it and of course I'll be speaking subjectively here. In the face of boredom, I think this interpolation, but I would not like to salt my mind, as it was somehow fatherly to Mr Tanko to us at our first interpolation, which is not what every team is doing its own, is very predictable here and something crazy will obviously not be. [[…]] But I find this interpolation, in fact, irresponsible. Why? It is my personal opinion that the Minister should step down on the matter of preparedness allowances and so on. We've been there for a generation, and we've probably become young researchers together somewhere, but let's just say I was bad, and you were good inside this system. Then it's probably not a coincidence which party I'm in, or I'm not in a coalition party, and where you kind of landed. But I don't mean it bad now, it's just an integral part of the 21st century. Even the elimination of the school gender has a variety of problems and challenges. My personal opinion is when I seriously consider that this ministry is even too large to have a single ministry from day care until the end of high school, and then one ministry, which would be a little more involved in higher education. In today's debate, it's public private, and then it's like there's some other two, if you want, non-budgetary and budgetary. The motioner said we had some crazy private issues. Dear colleague Lisec, we're both with the FDV, by the way. Nobel Coetzee says solitude is a blessing. I've appreciated this kind of privacy very much, I've had it very little since I've been in Parliament, and I won't let it be taken away. I also have problems, all kinds of private practices in entrepreneurship and so on, but the ideological position of the United Left is very clear. We are for public education, which should be budgetaryly financed and also to a greater extent free of charge to all children than it is now. Every single one of us, who's a parent, even the one in the pay grade J, knows that school isn't free, it's not free, it's expensive. I would also like to talk about textbooks after all, about the quality of these textbooks, about the cost of these textbooks. I'd like to talk to you about the savings you started on both the left and the right, and you've done it and you've done it. I would like to talk about the fact that I am increasingly getting the feeling that in this society and in this House we are acting as if people under 40 do not exist. Very frankly. We seriously do not deal with policies under the age of 40. There is a young SDS member who could talk about the career system, the composition and age of the Slovenian Army, he could talk about the renovation and upgrading of the system of young researchers, he could talk about how some of my best former students are now launching an attempt on housing cooperatives. The very clear ideological position of the United Left is also secularism. In this light, that the President of the Republic of Slovenia is going somewhere and making promises to someone, there is more than just news for the yellow press, if I put it that way. I would also like to talk about the high school system, which is somehow oriented like this – I admit, I have a rather severe dyslexic son – which stigmatizes everyone who is not high school. And if you remember, maybe you forgot, we had some scholarships for deficit jobs that were made as athletic discipline. Who's gonna get it first? This happened again, and that minister is still in her position. You could spend hours talking about the situation in higher education, with the minister and our former careers, partially frozen or whatever. Here and there we see a lady in an important position, you've been a provost, but yet she's paternalistic and gerontocratic. It's also a topic that we should actually start. If this is an interpellation, we should talk about the rectors. Are the rectors the gods? What are they in Slovenia? Of the three rectors we have two rectors who are very easily violating the Slovenian legal order, even with regard to the Constitution, we could find them very quickly, and then you listen to someone from your team in the media – and I will not name them – who somehow says very easily that this is the autonomy of the university. I think we should have a serious discussion sometime about what the autonomy of the university is. But because, of course, we come into politics from the university and go back to the university, even on the right side, not just somewhere else, somehow we won't start with this. In this quasi-user or entrepreneurial discourse, it was necessary to adapt our education to the conditions we are living in. As a rich OECD country, we should finally also talk about, I will use an old vocabulary, Madam Minister, the passive financing of basic science. Because without this serious science, there is no serious research. Even for all those who are digging on some, because you are bored when I say it, without the serious basic science that someone once financed, you would not actually have this option. [[Incomprehensible]] I'd like to talk about some crazy idea that I hear from the curves to re-accreditate study programs for five years. I was head of the department for two years, and I didn't want to be anymore, because then I got on my back one re-accreditation that went to stand by. Madam Secretary, this is madness. I also wrote a question to the government that I said was crazy. We're not going to be talking about an excuse for how science is moving so fast. If we have re-creditations for five years, that means we're literally almost nonstop in re-creditation. This means that for one third of the time, people will only be engaged in recreditation, instead of doing what is basic work, that is, research, education, and that they will somehow pass on to young generations. I have said many times that our universities are already becoming halfway to the homes of pensioners, but I would not like to be offensive to the third generation of life. That's not funny. People who have about a regulated existence, if they were a little more good than me, are 45 years old and older. We could talk about how many where I now live are too expensive to come from Koroška or Prekmurje to Maribor for study, let alone Ljubljana. These are some of the subjects we're talking about. We need to talk. The Ideological Position of the United Left in both education and elsewhere is inclusiveness, inclusiveness, but at the level of secularity. At the level of some confessional, let's talk about another day, if you want, about church taxes, let people count it, let them finance it, and within certain frameworks, if it doesn't interfere with social intolerance or the rule of law, I don't have any problems with it, but it's not payable from the budget lines. I would like to talk about these policies minus 40, and I will just start using this word, including the empowerment of young researchers and researchers, assistants and assistants. I've said many times before, "Children, until you two get along with each other, and once you're at my university, you don't say you've had enough, but by then this gerontological system won't explode." Empowerment also at the level of autonomy of the finances of these young people, and again we have some complications with the new co-financing scheme of doctoral studies. In short, there's a whole topic, and I haven't even touched the sport that I personally think would fit in more with the Ministry of Culture, if I'm honest, and I haven't touched a whole lot of things right now. These are some topics that need to be discussed where it would be necessary to listen, except for those who are in positions of power in education, which has always been and will be intertwined with politics in order to ideologically subdue all of this together. But that's not what we get. Now, in a circle we're spinning a story that's essentially beyond whether or not to follow the Constitutional Court, I'd almost hope to say it's a bit banal. I've got a whole series here. If you were in a party with as many Members as SDS or SMC, you could talk about a whole range of matters for two and a half hours. V We should probably also consider our higher education programmes. My parents are going to crucify me at the institutions where I teach. Either there are too many of them, whether they're duplicative or not, and so on. There is probably also a need to talk about some quasi-privatisation of Slovenian public higher education, both within these, as they are sometimes called, not the universities of Janšev as some of the institutions established by the so-called right governments and are private and mainly in the budget, which differ only because they have slightly less control over them. And we could talk about habilitating procedures, about some fictitious international publishing in England, about the fictitious enrollment of students, but of course not in a way that these young people would not be able to afford education. Because what this society has or doesn't have or will have is a mind. Within this ideological obstacle, we should also discuss whether education will be more educational or more educational. Of course, it will never be neutral. I have made it very clear many times that I study very actively in education systems for a hobby. I greatly appreciate some Scandinavian systems, especially the Finnish system, but also to some extent the Australian and New Zealand systems, because they are one of the better systems that have somehow taken these stories more seriously, not in a quasi-equity enterprise where we have a project, a poster, a third and a fourth, which we like to do with us, and we have also been distigmatic in some way. We should also be able to protect children from some parents who somehow fall heavily into this evaluation scheme. I'd like to talk about why we even need an evaluation in primary schools. I really want to talk about this. Personally, I don't think we'd need him. And maybe most people don't agree with that. I would like to talk about school activities, which are some of the principles that are too expensive. I would also like to discuss the scope of these activities. I would like to introduce a law that no one should train more than that by age. You've got one of them with your head, but we've got professional athletes working on it. When I talked about 18 years of age, religion is the closest thing to Baha’, since minors are not burdened with religious indoctrination. In short, a whole series of things, some things that need to be renegotiated here, are also discussed with parents and, after all, with those that we usually forget, with children. I remember doing some renovation of the FDV portal, and of course they didn't want me here because I'm a hell of a lawyer, so I went there and I said, "What about the students? Have you forgotten them?" These are some subjects that I, not just me, would like to talk about and actually resolve, but I'm afraid that I'm talking to myself more, someone is nodding to me, someone is kind of nodding to me. Of course, the area of education will always be one strong area of ideological warfare, both in civil society and in Parliament, where we will of course disagree and we will somehow measure ourselves. Of course, there are also proposals within today's session far from being politically stupid. What Mrs Brinovšek said just before me is, of course, also a defensive position, if we are not so much against public education again. Certainly more than too many of those we should have started, but unfortunately we haven't, and I'm afraid we won't. I can sit down now and again write 30 questions to the government that our people in the house will hold back, and some poor guy will get this job at the Ministry and then they'll unlock me. But that's not my purpose. I'm not saying what I'd like to say here, but what I think I have to say, because, after all, this country has trained me out of the budget. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u150	Thank you, Dr. Runk. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, followed by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u151	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. All of them have a lovely greeting, especially to the Minister of Interior! Soimenjak Franc Trček, if you want to talk about all this, then you and SDS should extend this interpolation or decide and write a new one. But I would still recommend that we don't do this, because in this country we probably have more important things to do than interpolation itself. I will also start by saying that I have had very positive experiences or very good contacts with ministers since 2006 in the field of education and so on, not to mention. I must say that more or less all those in this important function have actually been willing to discuss in some way the issues I have come up with. I don't come from school. Several of these last debates and debaters come from this area and look at the matter in a very different way. I look at it from the outside and as much as I follow in the National Assembly. For starters – I would not like to be sedated, but I will say that I will not forget because I am already in years – I would immediately say that I will not support the interpretation of the Minister and that I assess that the Minister is doing her job well, according to her abilities, powers and efforts. However, I must say that the interpellation candidates have chosen a poor central reason for interpolation. I will continue, in my brief discussion, to tell you why. I appreciate that public education is a key pillar of our development and that it is necessary to make sure that public education, as we know it now, remains that way or that we will continue to upgrade it in the future. I think it is well organised that the organisation of schools in the field is geographically well arranged, so that most students have the opportunity to attend public school or public school. However, I must also say that I personally assess that private education is now quite well regulated and that I do not see any specific problems in this area. I must also say that I am assessing that someone who has entered public education has also promised some co-financing share, but now he has found and received this opportunity or opportunity to transfer this obligation to the country. And to anyone other than the country? But the country is all of us together and we will all have to make a difference from our own pocket. Of course, constitutional decisions must be respected. All the time, it is evident to ministers and even coalitions that they did not respect it or that the coalition as a whole did not respect it. At this point, I must immediately say that you, my fellow Members, have not respected the constitutional decision and have not implemented it throughout the entire mandate. That is why I argued that you chose a bad central topic of today's interpretation, because on the other hand we could also tell you and tell you this, as individuals have said about this matter. I'm gonna stop at this point alone, and I'm not gonna say that again. Maybe a young colleague smiled and said to himself that we were there. That's true, but we didn't have the power to change these things. It really wasn't possible with our four or five Members. I have to warn you all. [[…]] Vice President, keep them quiet, please, so I can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u152	Please be quiet in the hall. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that on 18 February last year, we put forward a proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with a draft constitutional law, and we were also co-signers of this act. It must be said that the issue of the amendment itself to the Education and Education Financing Act tabled by the Minister is how we will define ourselves in our Group of Members in this regard. It is very difficult to say this in advance, but we will hold a debate, coordinate coalitionly and then decide which direction we will or will not support. To conclude my brief discussion, I would say the following. Colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, interpellations line up all the time. I'm telling you, this must be for the benefit of the coalition, which is what makes the coalition stronger. Therefore, I suggest that you carefully consider in the future when you will apply for interpolation and why you will apply for interpolation. In this case, I must say that you have missed the goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. We've got one last debater. Mr. Jože Tankko, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe first a sentence or two to those who run today's session. It would be very good to read the agenda item, look at the Rules of Procedure and limit the discussions of those who do not talk about the agenda item. Neither the coalition MPs nor the minister who responded to the interpretation findings today spoke of the agenda. The honourable Vice-President, and also those who held the meeting before you, heard of everything else from the coalition benches in the debates, except for the interpretation and response to the interpolation. From the two hours announced for discussion, the Minister spent 15 minutes. If her discussion or her responses to the obvious or to the obvious, since it is essentially a single note that we addressed by interpolation, we clean up all the ballast, she answered virtually nothing. Nothing. In some ways, I am disappointed that ministers, who also perform teaching functions, are not able to respond to a topic originating in their field. Sorry, Minister, that's right. How would you evaluate, say, your student if you could afford that at the exam? Can you tell me how you would evaluate it? Would you give him 10, give him credit, let him go? What you have performed today with the assistance of the coalition Members is not worth your time in this capacity. In fact, we are also disappointed because all of you who have discussed interpolation — just the ones you are — have overlooked certain obvious facts. We asked you in the interpretation why you did not comply with the obligations set out in the Constitutional Court decision within the time limit. We did not ask you in the program, about higher education, about sports, about all the other ballast you talked about, but only about why the Constitutional Court decision was not respected. There was no answer. At the time this decision was issued, the Government put into legislative procedure two novelties of the Education and Education Financing Act, one last year and one this year, and both were adopted. However, neither of these two novels touched the content of the Constitutional Court decision. Not even with the wand. I must say that such an understanding of the division of power and the respect of the rule of law is actually criminal. That anyone in this country is allowed and advocates a failure to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, because it is not intended to be the appropriate majority or a small majority, is scandalous. If you have any objection to this decision of the Constitutional Court, you would challenge it in higher cases, in the European Court of Justice, if you do not like this decision of the Constitutional Court. And no one triggered it. I must also say that it seems to me that the Minister is defending herself with what she said is that she rejects the perceptions of interpretation because they are unfounded, even scandalous. It's scandalous. We – I will read – in the first paragraph, we have asked the Minister for an answer why she has not acted and has stalled in the preparation of the amendment to the Education and Education Financing Act, which would implement the Constitutional Court decision by the deadline of 9 January of this year. The minister says that our statement is unfounded. Now, I ask the Minister, have you said that you have not implemented these decisions by the deadline set by the Constitutional Court until 9 January of this year? Is this observation from our interpolation unfounded and you reject it, or is it still unrealized, and is the case, according to the household, justified? I want an answer. Because what you have read from the Minister's reply is also a scandal, because you obviously don't know the dates, you don't know who we are or what you don't know. You don't even know the contents. I'm asking you next. Is the Minister responsible for the violation of the Constitution and non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision because she has not done so, or is she not? The minister says she rejects it and that it's unfounded. Is that really groundless? We continue to see her bereaved. The minister wrote that she was rejecting it, and that was groundless. The duty of the Prime Minister, i.e. the Minister, is to respect the rule of law and do all he has to do to ensure that constitutional, judicial and legal standards are respected. She didn't do it. But he says that our interpelation is unfounded and that the obvious rejects it. How is that possible? Do we live in a parallel world that applies to some other dates? Do you have a Chinese calendar or any other calendar, or do you have one that we all have? We report to the Minister that the non-implementation of the decision created an inequality before the law, as prescribed in the decision of the Constitutional Court. It therefore decided that the same situation should be ensured for public education programme providers, irrespective of how they are implemented — either in public or in private education. This is a clear statement of the Constitutional Decision, and the Minister says that this statement is completely rejected and that it is unfounded. I don't understand. Then we gave her a suspension of her duty to perform a political function which results in a loss of confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and the social state. Is this finding following the Constitutional Court decision groundless and must be rejected or is the case pending? I also ask coalition Members, did you sit here for ten hours today just to talk about everything else, just this weak response of the Minister to the apparent failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision? I understand that the Minister does not speak or that he cannot respond specifically to the debates of the interpellationers, because what we wrote in the interpretation stands from the first to the last letter, from the first to the last conclusion, from the first to the last. That the matter is even more delicate, this decision, which was issued on the basis of a civil society initiative, has already been issued within the mandate of this Government to a fellow Member. This is not a remnant of past periods, but this decision has already been taken within the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar, that is to say your coalitions. It is true that, at the time, the lady was not a minister, because the other two were her predecessors, who, because of certain matters, had left office quickly, but were the heirs to this constitutional decision by Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič and the coalition in which you are. If you had any other dilemmas or had any other concerns about the enforcement of any decisions, then those who had been would have interpreted the ministers of that time. We're talking about a point that's right on time. It is called the non-fulfilment of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has a number, date and sentence, and then further explanation. We are not talking about sports halls, not about sports results, Nakvis results, international comparisons and so on, but only about this item on the agenda. It's exclusive. That things are also serious and, in fact, controversial, the problem is also that you are so vehemently supporting the Minister of Education in this interpretation, despite the fact that neither of you can confirm that the Constitutional Court decision has been implemented by the deadline. Even today, when we consider this interpretation, the decision is not implemented. How will it be realized, respected minister and coalition colleagues? I assume that roughly as in the Forest Act, when you removed the securities or carriers and replaced them with an even more complicated bookkeeping charter. It is likely that this procedure will run in a similar way. Complication to unconsciousness, conversion to words, misbehaviour, without doing anything in such a way that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are implemented and that human rights are no longer violated. The Constitutional Court, in its statement, relied solely on that article of the Constitution, which is within human rights, is referred to in the second paragraph of Article 57. It did not deal with any other article, but with the second paragraph of Article 57. Respectable ones who have the power and political wisdom to confirm or defend the Minister in his position, even though no one among you can guarantee that the decision has been fixed within a period of time, but not yet today, then we need to know which direction the rule of law is going. We need to know. That means if you're in a coalition, anything is allowed, you can do anything, everything is fine, but if you're in the opposition, even if you're right, you're wrong. I think it's kind of a pretty serious problem. I'm gonna ask you one more time. I'll ask you all the way to school, considering you're also a teacher, that you're a teacher, that you're a professor. If you were to give me one time to prepare an assignment, a seminar, a colloquium, or something else, and give me a date to do it, and I would come to you in nine months or 10 months without a warrant, what would you say in the coalition? Did I deserve a positive assessment or not? Do you want to pass or not? Minister, would you do an admission exam like that with you, or, I don't know, what are you teaching? If I came after nine months without a warrant to come to you and pick up a frequency or an appointment, what would we do? Which door would you like to show? It's a simple question. This is a school case. Here we have exactly the school case of how the Minister defends herself and the coalition defends her in a case where the homework is not done, and you promised her an excellent assessment. Understand who can. It's a hit-and-run. There's no other. A reward for unworked work. That the problem is even worse in its own way is that we have rejected the two proposals of our laws that we have tabled on this subject. The Ministry or Government has given an opinion to those two of our laws that they are not comprehensive, they are not systemic, and they are the only two who have been rejected in this National Assembly with a large volume of those who read the texts written by the Government, and you have defended this unconstitutional state. You did it on the basis of the opinion of the Minister, the Government. You have selected an unconstitutional state in this area. Then send an army of tax officials to those boners who didn't issue any invoices before November 1st. That's it. For some inspections and 500 euros fines, if he doesn't issue a "dick" because he counted 2 euros when he issued one measure of boner. However, this does not give effect to the Constitutional Court's decision, we remain in an unconstitutional state, we continue to violate human rights, and the button is pressed for someone to remain in that position to receive a salary, and this is a top-notch salary, and to keep this unconstitutional state going. I think that once this year, there was a big night in the bishop's offices, too, the President of the Government, because he went on to brag about it quickly, after we have introduced the law, and now we will only press and make the solution in the government coalition to eliminate this unconstitutional situation and ensure equal funding for the implementation of approved public programmes. The president of the government there, in his own words, threw at the "fito" of those dedicated persons he was talking to. He lied to them. From that moment forward, from that photo term to the filing of the interpolation, nothing happened in the coalition from the bishop's offices to the filing of the interpolation after the year. The draft you're talking about was probably written when the Prime Minister of the government went to the bishop's offices because he came to tell us how this would work out. Nothing's happened since then. It didn't move that much until this interpolation happened. That the problems of compliance with legal standards in this country have increased exponentially with this coalition is more than obvious. If the President of the Government, who, by the way, has been a legal adviser to the National Constitutional Council for many years, in this way, is seeking solutions to legal or constitutional loopholes, then something is very wrong with his work and also with the work of this government. It is unacceptable that someone who has collected more than tens of thousands of Euros from the National Assembly and elsewhere is thus debarred from the Constitutional Court, which, by the way, is the supreme court in that country, as regards the assessment of the conformity of acts with the Constitution. Is this allowed to be done this way? Since there is no Prime Minister of the Government, I suggest you answer the Minister. This is allowed to infring on acts, infring on decisions and to maintain a situation which is not appropriate and which preserves funding difficulties. I must say that in some of the discussions that I have heard in this national assembly, some were also said from the professors' mouths, I can only be appalled. Just horrified. If professors or lawyers advocate and defend the case of the Minister in a manner that has been heard, we cannot expect any improvement in any area in this mandate, as this logic of breach of legal standards is being followed everywhere by this logic of violation of constitutional standards. Those with the greatest burdens are the most valued ministers and the coalition of these people is also the most intensive defender. The most intense defense. Respectable. Instead of solving problems, the coalition is working very hard to keep them open, to keep the problem going, creating new institutions that are supposed to deal with the protection of human rights, the protection of equality. I would like to know if this point, i.e. failure to respect this decision, will be devoted to the guardian of the principle of equality. Is it intended only to safeguard equality in other areas? Many of you have spoken here about having a public education funded by public funds. I would like to remind you that there are very few public funds in this country, one way or another. Indirectly or directly, we pay this to all citizens from private resources, through taxes, through contributions, such and other, you will hang all the deficits on citizens, the entire public debt will be paid by citizens and so on. What the state creates on its own is the financing of public health, public education and much more. I would be much more cautious in these claims and in these arguments, because citizens who contribute to them before their wages and even from their salaries are made and so on. All this is paid from these sources. Therefore, those who are currently in power should have, in particular, a concern about how to defend, how to ensure an adequate solution to the problems and also to the matters related to the decisions of the institutions of the rule of law. I am also surprised that, for example, the Ombudsman did not report to me, given that Article 57, paragraph 2, relating to human rights, is problematic in the decision of the Constitutional Court. There was no response in this case. It is aware of the fact that the decision has not been implemented and has not responded. Do we have a Ombudsman in this country to protect citizens from the work or the work of institutions? The government is an institution. If the Ombudsman overlooks such obvious things related to this decision, then the Ombudsman does not function, does not perform his task. He owes and would be obliged to warn the Government that things have not been done in this area and that they are still being violated. The whole concern of this poor coalition, which you say is being strengthened by interpolation, is actually directed only at that tower in Pisa, as Mr Han once said the Constitutional Court needs to settle a little bit, to change its inclination, and Mrs Murgel has threatened to do so. SMC message. It's obviously the only weapon left to change things the way you want. But these deformities, which you are probably counting on and which are supposed to happen with the new constitution of the Constitutional Court, cannot bring this country absolutely anything good. If things do not stand, if things are not healthy, if they are not logical, if they are not constitutionally consistent, then, dear colleagues, there is nothing to change in this area, except for deepening errors and causing additional problems to those who do not deserve it. Therefore, there are no reservations about not supporting the proposed interpolation. I will vote in favour of resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. We come to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, as well as a representative of the Interpellation Applicant, will also be given the floor. We begin with Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Majo Makovec Brenčič. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u157	Honorable Chairman, respectable assembly! I have never denied that I am well aware of the Constitutional Court's decision and that I am aware that it must be implemented. In doing so, I stressed that, with quality public and all inclusive education, it represents an additional selection, content richness, diversity of school space. I believe that we followed both the Constitutional Court's decision and the international documents and the actual social situation through a proposal for amendments to the law that was submitted to inter-sectoral coordination. The solutions enshrined in the law are professionally difficult, and they also require professional discussion and, in particular, social consensus. To that end, today's debate has also shown. At the Ministry, we carry on procedures with transparency and prudence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tanko. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary! In your response to our interpretation, you wrote that you reject all of our allegations because they are unfounded. We wrote five points in our interpolation, I went chronologically through earlier – I was not the first, but they went over before me by other colleagues – and I demanded an answer that you reject from our interpolation and why it is unfounded. I told you before that you're a teacher, you're a professor, the point is the point is very clear, and I expect that kind of answer. Is the deadline respected or not respected? Are human rights violations still or are they not still violations? And so on. With the two sentences that you have now read in the end, you cannot do so with the thing that we have prepared seriously. Neither you nor your coalition supporters in the National Assembly managed to reject any point of interpolation. Not one. With such flat-rate grades as you said here, we can't be satisfied. The Slovenian public must be told whether it is made or not, whether it is made within a period of time or not, and so on. In short, Madam Minister, you have written a sentence that you reject as completely unfounded. There is no reason to respond to our interpellation, because there is no reason for these arguments to be answered in writing. We demand that you say them orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u160	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u161	Thank you, President, for your word. I am also a little shocked by the short answer, because I was just expecting, not just after today's debate, specific answers, including quite such, half-absolute ones, because I wanted you to tell Members of the coalition, who have a lot of problems with what the public network in Slovenia is in the field of primary schools, but you did not. And I will tell about all those Members who today have so many problems and are hunting for these finesse, as has been said, what is a public network of primary schools. I'm reading the regulation so there's no mistake. "The public network of primary schools consists of public primary schools and private schools with concessions." Then we have the initiative of the proposers to amend the Constitution, which is not nearly the same as that of the 2001 Constitutional Court, which generally talked about the financing of private education, both vertically and horizontally. The Constitutional Court ruled: "The first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 2, of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is in the work relating to publicly applicable primary education programmes, in breach of the Constitution." This should be settled within one year, as recorded by the Constitutional Court. Today, of course, in addition to that classic repertoire, the discreditation of the proposer, the SDS Group, we have also heard a great deal of the views and discredits of the Constitutional Court. Again, we have repeated that story that 5 to 4 for a number of Members of the Coalition is not acceptable, we have heard that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are wrong, we have heard that the Constitutional Court is making decisions rashly and so on. I don't think we're the worst people today who are always discredited, that's the SDS Group of Members, but they're the worst two. As the first constitutional judges who are likely to wonder how deep and how far this tower will fall to the left in Pisa, it is obvious that this coalition respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court only when it suits them when they do not fit in, but they want to make a circuit. This is what this coalition has come to power, especially the ruling party, with an endless repetition of words such as the law, the rule of law, the rule of law, respect for the Constitution and laws and so on. What do we see after two good years? The Minister, in two sentences, easily rejects the perceptions from the interpretation, but slightly slips with his shoulders, and the Prime Minister goes after we do our part in the delegation's homework, which should be done by the ministry and the coalition, the institution or private primary school, and says he's unhappy, and nothing is done again. My personal opinion is that the Minister's fate is uncertain, not in this vote and in this interpretation, when we know what will be the approximate vote that those who do not respect the Constitutional Court's decision will vote in favour of a minister who has failed to take into account and adopt the relevant legislation within the prescribed time limit, but who will have more problems. With every step it takes in this promised amendment to the ZOFVI to implement the Constitutional Court decision, it will have a problem, not with opposition, but with coalition. For those who continue to deal with the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution in this area will still have this text before you. The text in which it states that it is desirable to eliminate the unconstitutionality identified by the five judges of the Constitutional Court in its decision. I think that perhaps today, at least on our part, the SDS Group, we have taken a step forward in that we have finally heard that there is some draft law. But that's not enough. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court which entered into force on 9 January 2015. On 9 January 2016, the so-called 'deadline' was to be implemented. Once we proposed a law in the Polish SDS Group, of course, you made a vehement laugh and said that you were preparing systemic solutions that, as the government replied, would be on the table in time. And he was here in January 2016, not to him. However, in the parliamentary group, we again introduced a law that would follow the dictates of the Constitutional Court, and again there was nothing. However, we received a slap in the face with the beginning of the Constitutional Commission, we received a visit from the Prime Minister of the Government, who was dedicated to the Pirates and to the satisfaction of private primary schools, how matters will be settled, and we received at the E-democracy a draft law prepared by the Government, which was also prepared in this third attempt – because they had already prepared their own law twice before, which had not even touched the Constitutional Court's decision, see it, schmenta, and did not deal with the Constitutional Court's decision. Nothing happened between April and September. Apparently, they had some very long parliamentary and government holidays. Then, in the SDS Group, we decided to put in an interpellation to report certain matters to the Minister. Now we hear that as some kind of counterweight is being prepared by some government law that is supposed to see the light of the world on November 2nd and go into inter-resort coordination in terms of "just about". But today, not by the Minister or representatives of the coalition, there was no answer or you refuse to be responsible for the failure to act and delay this novel, whether you are responsible for the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the failure to respect the Constitutional Court, whether you are responsible for acting and abandoning the duty of minister and whether you are responsible for creating inequality before the law. We didn't get an answer, but we all know what the fact is. You are responsible because the decision of the Constitutional Court is clear. But what the Government and the Constitutional Court have said most of all is an overwritten article by the former President of the Constitutional Court that the policy postpones the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them and, in particular, the policy postpones in the last two years simply by implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court because it disagrees with them. It's that legal coalition that's been promising a lot for two years, and now we see what's going on in our country. Today we did not want to discuss certain other topics in the field of education, science and sport, because we believe that there will be a time for the interpretation of the whole government. In some ways, however, we are grateful to the Members of the United Left, not because of their thinking, but because they are saying that we should put the interpolation into place when we learned about the illegal reception and illegal participation of the Minister in the preparation of the supplements for permanent readiness. But what is more than an intervention for failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision? If we respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no higher act that could violate it. I am afraid that every 14 days we will have an extraordinary session when we find illegality and illegality, if you force the SDS Group to make laws for any unfulfilled decision taken by the Constitutional Court during this term or for the established illegal operation of ministers or any State secretaries. If we give the clips just for those two years ago, you'll see how many interpretations we missed. At the time of her oath as secretary, the minister said she would respect the rule of law. The legal order is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Now we see what's going on and what's going on. Your Honor, today we have only wanted to tell you one thing in these ten hours that you do not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Violations of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia continue. But it is obvious that this coalition is deaf to decisions of the Constitutional Court, and even more so in this particular case it is disputed that this coalition will have many problems if it wants to do at least roughly what the Constitutional Court has decided, which is 100 per cent of the funding of the programmes in force in primary schools. We didn't want anything else, not to open up the subject in the field of secondary education, higher education, not the subject of financing equipment and space superstandards, but only what the Constitutional Court wanted or decided. However, in this legal country in 2016 the coalition, which refers to the rule of law and respect for law and has a husband who is a constitutional lawyer at the head of the government, does not want to do so. Therefore, respectable and respected, we all have one major problem together, which you do not want to solve because the initiator is the SDS Group of Members, both in legislative proposals and in proposals such as today's interpretation. Which is sad, and which is likely to make us even more afraid in the future, especially at the end of this term, that different courts, particularly constitutional ones, will decide how many failed unconstitutional laws this government has adopted. I wonder how many Members of the then coalition might say in the National Assembly, "Yes, I am guilty." Very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u162	Thank you to all the debaters. All those of you who wanted it, you've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the basis of Article 71(1). I can see that. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposed interpretation, Mr Tomaž Lisec and Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please also report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will be given the floor as the last, first by the Minister and then by the representative of the proposer. The application shall be made. We have nine debaters, as the first Mr. Jože Tanko. You have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, some things that we have not received an answer to must be repeated. Perhaps now there will be easier answers because there is also a President of the Government here, who can also respond to the Government's framework. In her reply, the minister wrote that she rejects our allegations in full and as unfounded. Now I ask again whether the Minister of Education Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič respects the Constitution. Does Minister of Education Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič respect the Constitutional Court's decisions? Is the Minister working to address human rights violations? These are just three questions that we have not received an answer to in previous discussions, and I hope that we will get an answer now. If the Minister respects all of this, which I asked, then I wonder why she has not proposed a change to the Education and Education Financing Act since 9 January, which would remedy the error of this law, and why the two laws that we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we have abolished or, in the domestic sense, annulled the Constitutional Court's decision, were opposed by the Government and then by the government coalition. I expect this time the answer will be just as it should be. In fact, I am also disappointed because there have been no serious answers to such questions that have so far arisen in the debate, either by the Minister or by other government officials or by coalition Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u164	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u165	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! Sometimes I like to say we need some weed to detect all the lies that come out. What is the theme today, ladies and gentlemen? The Constitutional Court has ruled that all children should have equal opportunities not only when it comes to public education but also when it comes to private education. It has imposed upon you, the ruling coalition, a state to make it legal. The Minister would be the first to do so, because it is in the development interest of Slovenia, that even those of the socially weak families would be given the best quality education, because it is in the interests of the children, and she did not knowingly do so. That's why we should go now. Everyone you've been defending, you know that damn well. You swear on public education. Ah, come on! Then why did Milan Kučan send his daughter to a private school abroad? Why did Dr. Luksic, president of SD, teach his children at a private school in the bishop's institutions? Why do left-wing trade unionists usually teach their children in private schools, ladies and gentlemen? In order to give them a comparative advantage, because they know that they receive the most quality education that you are denying to those of socially weak families, because by insisting on an unconstitutional position, you prevent them from being co-financed by the State's part that is necessary, which is 100 % co-financed by it, as the Constitutional Court has said. So you are doing this to the detriment of the poor, to the detriment of the children, to the detriment of the development of the Republic of Slovenia. Shame on you. This government is run by a constitutional lawyer. He should already be the first to ask the Minister to go because he knowingly, for a long time, he violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to the detriment of development, to the detriment of children, to the detriment of equal opportunities, which is a constitutional category, and does not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, how is your ethics, morals and responsibility? Remember, if someone steals a pâté, they have to go now. If someone steals some electronics, they can keep the job. If someone makes 40 grand, it's the best. But if someone makes a strategic project like arbitration, it's untouchable. A wonderful example of this, to the detriment of Slovenia and to the detriment of children, is here today. I just hope people see it and understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Tomaž, who led this interpretation today, has been teaching us all day how to talk about primary education and not the whole school system. Let's give your colleague some discipline. I don't care who goes somewhere, which private school? I don't think anyone cares. That's all that's interested in is a fellow Grimes, who's here breaking up and screaming about who's going anywhere. But we're interested in another question. What are we gonna pay for? This is the key and fundamental question. But given that we have applied for the additional time we have left, I have decided that I will only discuss it because of your leader, who, of course, was as he was in his well-known manner, in the end, given that you have appointed Tomaž in your parliamentary group to lead the interpellation, relatively moderate. But, fellow Jože, you know very well that if you're rude to people, then you get a relatively similar answer to what comes your way. That's what you've been through today. It is not surprising, therefore, how the debate is actually going on. My purpose, however, was to point out in particular one fact that has already been repeated in the National Assembly. The question of whether we are spending money or a vehement repetition, whether we have interpolation or not, is equally paid. That's right. But do we really have to spend time and energy on something where it's not actually seized, instead of doing what it's meant to do, and really spend quality time with some loot? This is, of course, a matter of judgment and a view of each individual also in this hall. I personally believe that this interpretation is infertile, it has no clear purpose. Since you keep repeating that the Minister will be able to carry out her work further, and that one of your fellow Members has already made a very clear thank you somewhere in the middle of the interpolation and wished the Minister to continue working, therefore, is a waste of time. Let me finish. The leader of the SDS Group is vehemently repeating the same question, which is what we should discuss. I'm sorry, but we're going to discuss what we're being challenged to do. If we remember when you were the subject of the debate yourself or when your ministers were intertwined, you spoke from potatoes to airplanes, everything you could do, and no one at that time invited you, because we all know that at the time of the interpolation, anything possible and impossible pain and trauma of individuals, especially those who kill you most. In the end, let me conclude with a single fact. Comrade Jože, in the National Assembly, we did not elect any guardian of equality, but we chose an advocate of the principle of equality. By the way, neither is an authority established, because it can't be, because there are certain procedures. But I suggest... considering you don't know the law well enough to write him a personal letter. I believe he'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u168	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u169	Madam President, I propose that you very seriously warn Mr Möderndorfer that in this House, when you are faced with arguments that you do not have an answer to, it is really not appropriate to resort to "what I care about". Like you said, "What do I care, who's in school somewhere in private schools?" You should, Mr Möderndorfer, because of this, i.e. equal opportunities for children, the Constitutional Decision, which is the fundamental basis for today's interpretation, is in fact a matter of substance. All those on the left with the highest leaders who teach their children in private schools at the time of the vehement public swearing on public education testify to the infinitely perpetuating and hypocrisy which is detrimental to constitutionality, which is detrimental to the developmental potential of the Republic of Slovenia and which is particularly detrimental to children, especially those from poorer families.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u170	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u171	Mr President, I have already warned you in the previous debate that it would be good if those who hold the meeting read the agenda and guided the debate. It's a very big difference if you write an interpolation where you open 8 content sets and then you actually talk about what Mr Möderndorfer is saying or you do an interpolation like this one that only has one item of agenda called the enforcement of a Constitutional Court decision. That's all it is. I think the questions raised to the Minister and also to the President of the Government, who has now fled, were correct. Does it respect the Constitution, respects the decisions of the Constitutional Court, respects the principle of the protection of human rights or does it not? For all these things are spoken of in the decision of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, there are no answers to very specific and simple questions. Mr. President, that's why you're here to do this and direct it. If you have not read and if you do not know the contents, it is difficult to conduct the meeting. Even such escapades as Mr Möderndorfer affords, because he can't do otherwise because he obviously has not read the Constitutional Court's rulings, you can only deal with others in this way, not your own. The problem in this country is because they do not work or implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, not the opposition, Jože Tanko or our Members. It would be good to discuss drones, the third development axis, and so on, when you have some fitness training in coalition parties ahead of a certain point of the agenda, so that you can also spend some time preparing for the meeting so that we do not discuss drones, the third development axis at this point of the agenda, which is called equal financing for all primary schools in Slovenia. Obviously, some people don't know, they don't know, they don't know, and then they do everything you need to do, even with your colleagues, and especially with your colleagues from the SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. [[adverts from benches]] Allow me, Mr. Möderndorfer, to at least answer. I cannot resist the temptation to make six more opinions, six more Members would like to discuss. Believe me, I don't want to stumble on small things. I believe every opinion has its own weight, but believe me, we have another mission here today. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, would you like to proceed? You too? Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u173	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is, President, to inform your colleagues who know the Rules of Procedure very well, that Members of the National Assembly can speak and, of course, take responsibility for everything we have said. But what some individuals want to say is something else. With regard to fitness training, I suggest you win them. You have enough money, at least after what I saw after the payout in the daily newspaper — that is, absolutely — and you could get used to some other manners. I am personally convinced that it is time for Members to take responsibility for this. To make it easier for you to sleep tonight, again. I don't care where any parents direct their children to any school. We can say that I don't care. I'm very interested in what we're paying for. Some of them will sleep badly, of course. That's their problem if that's why they have a problem. I don't have it. But I have a problem with payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u174	Dr. Duck, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u175	Dear colleagues, my procedural proposal is that procedural procedures should be merely procedural. Jani as an experienced politician now definitely deserved a reminder and someone else before him. If I have a word. Your proponents discussed the various five-legged stars. I see a lot of them out there. Apparently, the SDS is also against these stars if I continue to debate so little, but I will not abuse the procedural one. Please, let's finally stick to the Rules of Procedure once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Nor will I, nor will I, nor will I serve it, but I propose that we give the floor to Mr Jean Mahnič. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u177	Thank you, President. The coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia has a six-point star. The stars are really five-pointed on the flag of the EU, but these stars are from Mary's circle, that is, from Mary's crown, and they represent a Christian Europe, with which the Vice-President of the National Assembly also agreed when he once said on the Defence Committee that Europe would be Christian or Europe would no longer be. Let's get to the bottom of this. Of the two hours reported, the Minister of Education spoke for only 15 minutes. This tells us all about the interpolation, namely that the interpolation was not wide, that the minister did not have everything from A to Z, as the coalition MPs had said, but that she was marked by a certain thing, a certain clear statement, and that was that she did not follow and followed — not respected, but followed — the judgments of the Constitutional Court. The Minister of Education or the whole ministry, since it came only in April or May, had previously been two other ministers, was unable to draw up a law within 23 months following the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish the unconstitutional situation. I am curious about where a school is, especially if it is a public person who advocates something when performing in front of cameras and in practice does something different. They are officials, former public officials who are against the private, and their children are trained in elite private colleges. This public needs to know, because then these people are saying something, and then they're doing something in practice. Approximately EUR 300,000 per year would be necessary to comply with this decision. About 300,000 euros. Within 23 months, it was a problem to write down a law that would correct this unconstitutional situation, while in the Slovenian Democratic Party we proposed our own amendments. But if that were the case, there's a reason for it somewhere else. Here I have a list of countries according to the OECD study, or it's not a study, but it's more of an analysis, and the relationship between private and public education. On the tail of the countries are Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, Romania, Bulgaria and Russia, i.e. countries that have their roots in totalitarian systems that knew what education serves to serve primarily indoctrination and service of human resources education, youth education in the right direction. In a direction that citizens will do as a country or a ruling suit needs. We have written five main messages in this interpretation, namely that the Minister is responsible for failure to act and delay in the preparation of the amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, that she is responsible for the violation of the Constitution, for the conduct and abandonment of the duty to act as a competent minister, responsible for halting the inequality before the law and for the responsible conduct and abandonment of the Minister's duty to act, resulting in the loss of confidence in the institution of the rule of law and social state. Those legal states that were full of mouths at the time still running for Prime Minister Mir Cerar. Once again, just two cases of how we'd be disgusted if we got to them. Firstly, I have already said that on 20 June 2014, according to the judgment of the Court, the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party had to report three weeks before the campaign to the end of the prison sentence. Imagine if I said he'd take another six months, nine months, or a year, and maybe that's when he'd come. That's one thing the secretary is doing right now. What a disgrace it would be to hear the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government, and what I know, who else. The second is the difference between first-class and second-class citizens. Imagine a citizen who hasn't paid for electricity in 11 months. Such a citizen would be excluded. A minister like that should have been shut down a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u178	Mr. Love Žnidar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I will begin my own debate from a pedagogical point of view. We all know a very well - known river that we all gave to children: Be good, learn well, and you will do well in life. But times change. Today this river given by the Government to all citizens is slightly different. This is: Dear children, be good, learn well, because you are the future of Austria, Germany, Canada, Australia. That's the river of the present. A very good question was raised by colleague Möderndorfer, who said that what we are paying for in education is an essential issue. And I answer that we are paying for the future of Austria, Germany, Canada, Australia and so on in education. That's what we pay for. We pay well-educated staff for their future and pay for their future. Because now our secondary school students are looking at foreign countries where there is a deficit and where they will have the opportunity to work in these neighbouring countries. This is the orientation of our youth today. This is our system and the system provided by the government with a clear signal where all these things are going in the country. This is reality, this is not speaking in three days. Ask young people, listen to them, see their directions, summarize their thoughts, and you will come up with very good answers. I'd say sometimes being a minister wasn't that easy. It's a responsibility, it's an expertise, it's an ethicality, and it might even mention it, but it's pretty easy to be a minister these days. There's no responsibility, you can break the constitution, you can break the law, the caravan goes on. We know that river well. Nothing happens. A whole bunch of excuses and excuses, and I could tell you what's going to happen if the Minister doesn't respect these top state acts. Today it is quite simple to be a minister, but this is in the government of Mira Cerar, in the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u180	Thank you. Lord Sasa Tabakovic, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I have to respond simply to some of the suggestions made by the proposer, particularly those he had in his concluding statement. The applicant cited the definition of a network of public schools, where he said that they were public schools and private schools with concessions, and then referred this to a decision of the Constitutional Court. We need to be precise, this decision of the Constitutional Court of these schools is not tanning. The decision of the Constitutional Court is tantamount to those private schools which do not have concessions but implement a programme that has gained the application of the public programme. This means that these schools do not implement a public programme but implement a programme that has gained the scope of the public programme. What does that mean? This means that those children enrolled in this private primary school do not need to be given differential examinations in order to be granted primary education. That's very important. When the proposer speaks about the fact that nuances are somehow not important, how important they are, because nuances simply determine the essence of a context or a framework that we are talking about. We are talking about a decision by the Constitutional Court that speaks of financing. The decision refers to funding in a way that achieves a mandatory minimum of the programme which has obtained the application of the public programme in an equivalent way, which also affects the public programme. This is very important. Why is that important? This is important because, if we look at today's legislation, we see that these schools are now funded by 85% and that these schools were then issued, if I may say so, by the law, by their names or fees or whatever, so that these students could participate equally in the programme or that the programme was paid from these funds. The decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the need to finance the programmes which have obtained the application of the public programme equally as a public programme. Of course, this is absolutely necessary. Why? Because, on the basis of the new law, this private school will have to operate much more transparently because it has not so far. Because they got a bag of money, so some amount, and then they could finance the program or maintenance of the infrastructure and so on. It will now be quite clear that these schools will not be allowed to issue certain posts or tuitions for the implementation of the programme. It is true, however, that they will still be able to request contributions, which will concern the maintenance of the infrastructure itself and certain specific expanded content. This instruction from the SDS delegation, when they said that some parents are now embarrassed because at first they thought when they signed their children in September that this private school would be completely free of charge, they simply do not. Because parents did not enroll their children in this school because they thought it would be free, but because it was easy for them to get close to the value system that the school is implementing. It would be right here to be a little more precise and not be so misleading. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u182	Mr. Marjan Pojbich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Today, I listened to this debate all the time, either here or in the office. I have to say, some things have gone through everything that's normal. It is amazing that after so much time today, I have experienced the greatest amount of unleavened bread ever eaten. This is the river that has been proven in this national council today. We have the President of the Government, who is a constitutional lawyer. Today and many times in this national assembly, one who had the final word on the part of this coalition could read three or four sentences for the final word. Today, what I am saying in the introduction is that the Minister has spent one minute and sixteen seconds in closing. She also read what she said from that document. To each of us sitting in this House, then everything is perfectly clear. In this coalition, as you always see the Slovenian Democratic Party, you can only do what they allow you to do. Not even to be able to say it in four words or in four sentences without reading it. This is what makes me extremely concerned about the future of Slovenia, because it is unacceptable, unfair, extremely irresponsible. What I have experienced here today is that, in the final word, the Minister allows himself to read the two sentences written to her and that the President of the Government is a constitutional lawyer and the basic decision is being implemented. Madam Minister, since I also know the other part of this problem, it is not one to oppose the reality and to immediately propose a law to resolve this problem because my colleagues in the SMC have told me. It is therefore clear who is the one who is hindering and preventing her from doing so immediately because she is aware of the consequences if she fails to take the appropriate decision of this government when it comes to the resolution of this matter that we have discussed today. Today, one of the coalition partners of this coalition has performed a very vehemently – which I am very surprised to say – and among other things, he said that interpellations are often arranged, that the coalition will only become stronger and stronger and that we should not do so in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I couldn't understand. Is that possible? Are we living in the same world? Are we sitting in the same House? Do you think that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are investing in interpellations to unite coalitions, or do we invest them because we want to draw attention to irregularities, illegality and everything that is not going in the right direction in this coalition? I hope that the coalition's coalition parties and the government will understand this for once. How long will it take? It takes two and a half years to warn you, but nothing changes. I really wish one day it would be the right moment. This moment is coming and coming to you, and at that time very few of you will laugh in this coalition in the way that some Members of this Parliament are laughing today. Because you don't understand things because you're here for the month to come and you take the salary. You don't give a damn about our citizens and citizens, about those with 400, 300, and I don't know how many euros of pensions, about those who are getting more and more on the minimum wage, about those who are getting more and more at the Employment Institute, and about those who are getting more and more in Austria and other countries leaving this country. It's amazing how far we've come in this country and how far this "powerful coalition" has brought our country. It's sad. I hope this nonsense ends as soon as possible so that the Slovenians can come back to normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u184	Thank you. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. This was the fifth interpellation that we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate. I must say that ministers have been more or less successful or unsuccessful in defending these interpretations. I'll get to the words of my colleague Marjan. She spent 17 minutes of the two hours available to the minister today for her defence. 17 minutes! 17 minutes, Minister, you have spent, not for us, but for the parents of those children who attend private primary school and still pay €60 a month unjustifiably. Yeah, they're still paying. This will eventually show your attitude toward your work, to our work, to the work of the Constitutional Court and to your parents. Dear fellows, I'm asking you what your vats are. Your colleague Juliana Bizjak Mlakar had to resign because she did not respect the government's decision. However, Minister Maja Brenčič will not or, as I am aware, will not vote in favour of this interpretation because she does not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Does that seem normal to you? Do you think we live in a normal country? I don't think that's normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u186	Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u187	Two answers first. Mr Tabaković says we must not deceive, but he is twice seducing himself. Secondly, colleague Jani Möderndorfer says that we have important themes ahead of us to propose something, but whatever we propose, you reject everything. This is your relationship you're going through. We all wanted to tell you today what an interpolation is. And what is more than interpretation if someone violates the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and does not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court? In the Group of Members, we still believe that the Constitution is the highest act in our country. How should we expect all citizens and citizens to respect the laws and respect the Constitution, but if we have ministers here who do not respect the Constitution and nothing happens to them? Moreover, we have the Constitutional Court and their decisions are binding, but this government, which came into existence after the promise of heaven under the rule of law, is reviving itself to this Constitutional Court. Moreover, we have ministers who are responsible for the decision-making of the Ministry. Here we have a minister who does not respect the Constitutional Court's decision and who is the President of the Government, who is a constitutional lawyer and does not respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Since the President of the Government has failed to be responsible for ordering the Minister of Education, Science and Sport himself to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision without delay, it is the President of the Government who is most responsible that the Constitutional Court's decision has not yet been complied with and is the one who is in breach of the constitutional order and who, apparently, today, by calling on the MP of the coalition to ensure that we continue to have an unconstitutional situation. Previously it was said that some would sleep badly. Yeah, some of them are gonna sleep badly. First of all, the Constitutional Judges, because the discussions of the coalition Members have completely degraded them, how their decisions are wrong, how their decisions are too quick, how they do not have to be respected, especially when it is a narrow result. Parents and children will sleep poorly in these private primary schools, because they will see, I will tell them at home that this coalition and this government are putting horns on them. While they expect the Government to comply with its decisions by the Constitutional Court, because the Government will not do so, they will continue to be forced to pay what should be theirs, as should all others in the public network of primary schools. The Minister, who is between a cloth and anvil, will probably sleep poorly, because on the one hand there is a small part of the coalition that just wants to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and on the other hand we have those who have signed themselves under a request to amend the Constitution in this area. Your Honor, do you know who will sleep at least? The President of the Government, because he will still be unhappy because, as a lawyer and President of the Government, he is delaying the implementation of a constitutional decision. Good night!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-07-SDZ7-Izredna-36.ana.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding the debate on interpolation and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellation candidates propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, that is 46 votes and more. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 48. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 48.]] I find that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, was not elected. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I want a quiet and relaxed evening for all of us. Thank you very much, everyone.
