ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Erika Dekleva, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček from 2 p.m., Mrs. Iva Dimic between 4 p.m. and 21 p.m., Mrs. Jelka Godec, Mrs. Vojka Šergan until 4 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, Miha Kordiš, Mr. Franc Laj until 2 p.m., Dr. Franc Runc from 12 o'clock, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 16 o'clock, mag. Anže Logar, Mr Andrej Chus, Mr Joseph Horvat from 16 till 21:00, Luka Mesec from 21:00 and Mr Branko Zorman until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Guarantee, Survival and Disability to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good morning, everyone! Dear Members and Members. before you is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the accession of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarships to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In May 2015, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the financing arrangements and the functioning of public agencies and public funds. At the Ministry I run, we have carefully examined the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, including calls to verify the eligibility of individual agencies and public funds and to analyse the cost aspects of their operations. The proposed legislative changes aim at the substantive and organisational transformation of both public funds, which are the only ones under the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Due to related work processes, work is expected to be optimised; good business practices of one fund can be transferred to a joint body. In the work area of the new Fund, the implementation of all policies that fall within the working circle of our ministry will be new. According to our assessment, the merger of the two public funds means a way to make it easier to function and to achieve the objectives set more quickly, to achieve dynamic and balanced growth in skills and development, to increase safety and business stability, to strengthen reputation and to increase the efficiency of business. The merger into one public fund also reduces the operating costs of both funds and consequently reduces the public financial expenditure. I would like to point out that the draft law contains only the necessary legal changes to bring together the operation of the two Funds under the auspices of the Ministry and that the activities relating to pooling of funds will not affect in any way the exercise of rights or the rights of the recipients of the funds of the two Funds. In the process of drafting and considering the law, we have listened as a proposal to your warnings and to the proposals of the Legislative and Legal Service, the state councillors and representatives of both funds. On this basis, the legislative text with the amendments has been further improved, and with the extended period of application of the law to the beginning of 2017 we have also provided ourselves with sufficient time for the funds to be able to prepare themselves thoroughly and implement all the necessary procedures for co-operation and single operation. I am convinced that there is an opportunity before us for the growth of two public entities under the auspices of our Ministry, so I would like to conclude by asking you to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! At its 22nd meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. On the basis of a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly, the law was examined following a reduced procedure. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments to the law. In the introduction, the applicant was told that, following a proposal for a law, he would join the Public Guarantee Fund, the Maintenance Fund and the Disability Fund as well. The proposal does not change the scope of rights, which is essential to beneficiaries and follows the principles of sustainability of public finances, the economic use of public funds, efficiency, proportionality and, last but not least, transparency. In 2015, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the financing arrangements and the functioning of public agencies and public funds, where, inter alia, it proposed to the Government to examine the adequacy of the existence of individual public agencies and public institutions and to choose, in setting up new or existing existing ones, a form that would be most cost-effective and substantively justified. In order to reduce the number of public sector entities, the proposed law ensures rational organisation and at the same time rationalisation of work, simplification of procedures and processes in public administration. A positive impact on public resources is expected, as is synergies in substantively similar processes, and there is no reduction in the rights of beneficiaries. The debate that followed highlighted the principle of agreement between the Fund and the work on the economic use of public funds and the sustainability of public finances. The question of the real savings of the country and why the integration of the larger fund into the smaller fund was also raised. It also asked the debaters how the information system will be harmonised, what costs and what will be the situation with the employees. In response: the accessions will not affect the procedures and existing content of the rights related to the operation of the above-mentioned public funds, nor will they affect the staff, as from the date of the accession, the new fund will take over all public servants, assets, assets, equipment, rights, obligations, unfinished business and everything else. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted first on the amendments as a result of the comments or opinions made by the Legislative and Legal Service and finally voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of all that has been said and of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation, as already said, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, for which Mr Jani MÇderndorfer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u6	Hello! If you listened carefully to the Minister and the rapporteur, you could actually understand the purpose of the law itself, because you described it in very detail and detail. The point is that today we are actually correcting certain decisions from 15 to 20 years ago, which is normal and another proof that once you adopt the law, it does not remain that way and that it is eternal and saveable, but in fact, on the basis of certain experiences, findings and some work processes, and not least the decisions we make every day, it is also necessary to reorganise. That is why we can call this law a reorganisation law that brings together two funds today. The fact is that if you look only at the history of the law, we have seen that it has experienced at least five to six serious changes and has led us to talk today only about reorganisation, which is the meaning and purpose of what we are, in fact, all the parties in Parliament, continue to strive. It is also true that some are never satisfied with any reorganisation proposed. In particular, because they are afraid of losing jobs because jobs are being optimized and more importantly, they are usually the leading functions. Here was also the most debate; which director will have to go and which is not, but for the purpose and purpose of the fund itself, which becomes single, is completely irrelevant. The fact is that we have a law before us today that is good, quality and is also worthy of support, so we will support it in the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u8	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Another particular reason why we will not support this law is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which points out that the scope of the Fund has already been substantially upgraded several times, and therefore, in their view, it is necessary to consider whether the law in force is substantively and structurally designed for the purposes of the original regulatory area still provides an adequate and sufficiently comprehensive basis for the operation of the Fund. The legislative and legal service is of the opinion that instead of upgrading with only basic provisions on the new tasks of the Fund, it would be more appropriate to draw up a new legal text for this purpose. The drafter also refers to the decision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia which issued the audit report on the effectiveness of the financing arrangements and the functioning of public agencies and public funds, but this report does not indicate that these specific funds need to be pooled. In addition, the Court of Auditors’ report on these two funds does not de facto identify anything critical. In reviewing the law, we can identify major shortcomings because we believe that the appropriate analyses have not been carried out to support this merger. What about a careful review that would cover all the important business factors, for example, how it is with the operational connection plan, how it is with the software of the funds, why it is so hasty and so fast, as a short process is proposed and so on. The bill also discusses the rationalisation and reduction of the number of public sector entities, but, on the other hand, establishes new agencies by means of new laws. So this change, or the merger of two funds, is intended primarily for other purposes, and this is the suspension of the current director who works very well, but because he is not of the Red Coalition, it is necessary to replace him and appoint a new director from the Coalition quota. Since there were obviously no other options available, the government and the coalition chose the latter, which, according to our assessment, is an extremely receptive way to achieve the objectives of the political staffing of the current government, so we cannot support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Let me give immediate support to the Desus Group to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, or it is less difficult to change the law. The Desus Group advocates a rational and efficient system of functioning of public systems, which means that we are aware of the fact that it is possible to bring together different public institutions, but we are inclined only to such an association that does not detract from the purpose and mission of the institutions that unite them. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities considers this to be an example. We are inclined to combine the responsibilities and tasks of individual institutions in cases where unnecessary financial expenditure is eliminated for their operation, duplication of work, removal of unnecessary administrative obstacles and so on. When introducing the law, the Ministry refers to the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia entitled The effectiveness of the financing arrangements and the functioning of public agencies and public funds of 18 May last year. It proposed to the Government, inter alia, to examine the adequacy of the existence of individual public agencies and public funds and to select a form that would be cost-effective and most substantively justified in establishing new or existing entities. An up-to-date coalition agreement also seeks commitments following the reorganisation of public administrations. The Ministry believes that the bill we are talking about is what it is that is being implemented. By this law, I give the legal basis for the accession of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. It is important that the rights of recipients from any of the four areas in which the single fund will now operate do not change in any way. It is also important that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, under whose auspices this fund belongs, ensure that there will be no redundancies due to the pooling of funds. In addition to financial savings, the Desus Group expects an information and technological rationalisation of business. The latter, we believe in Desus, will have positive business effects, as the established good practices of each area can be passed on to other areas and can be improved or unified in individual operating systems. According to our assessment, some of the integration dilemmas that have emerged in this proposal of the law in view of the past experience of the merger of the guarantee and maintenance fund with the disability fund have already proved to be a positive synergy effect, in particular in recovery, irrespective of the very different content that the two funds previously dealt with. In view of the above, the Desus Group will support the proposal for a new law, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! On a proposal from the Government, the law before us provides for the merger of two funds or the accession of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This is how the government seeks to ensure rational organisation and the work of public administration and to simplify procedures and processes. A positive impact on public resources is foreseen, including through the exploitation of synergies in substantively similar work processes. According to the Association Government, it will not affect the procedures and existing content of the rights related to the operation of the said public funds, nor will it affect the staff, as the new Public Fellowship, Development, Disability and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will take over all public officials, assets, equipment, rights and obligations, unfinished matters, documentation and archival material of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarships. We have also adopted an amendment on the home working body, which has postponed the deadline for the implementation of the accession to the beginning of 2017, thus providing more time to prepare. A working group will also be set up, following government assurances, to ensure that the accession process is smooth and organised as far as possible, without unnecessary delays and complications. The amendment of the law is therefore more or less technical in nature. However, any expressed substantive problems that have been highlighted during the discussion will also be addressed through changes to the sectoral laws, as provided by the proposer. We hear calls from various institutions and stakeholders to rationalize the operation of many public funds and agencies in the Republic of Slovenia. One year ago, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia also drew attention to this fact when it issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the financing arrangements and the functioning of public agencies and public funds and the Government, inter alia, proposed to examine the adequacy of the existence of individual public agencies and public funds and to select a form that would be most cost-effective and substantively justified when establishing new or transforming existing entities. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia follows these calls and is therefore considered welcome in this regard and will be supported in our Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u13	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye! The purpose of this law is to rationalise the operation of related funds in the composition of the Ministry of Labour. The applicants promised that the rights of the inhabitants of the maintenance fund, the disability fund and the grant fund with the merger would not deteriorate. At the same time, the Government has also promised that no one, apart from the Director of the Fellowship Fund and the members of the Supervisory Board, will lose their jobs or income. Under these conditions, the United Left would be able to support the law without a problem. However, the legislative process has shown that these guarantees cannot be met. For the government says that a quarter of the annual savings are due to the abolition of one principal. However, it has been shown that the Director should still be replaced by a management worker to coordinate the work of the associated grant fund. Such coordination seems necessary. The Fund will, in a new way, acquire additional European funds and pay a new type of scholarships for the deficit professions. Last year, the first call ended with a fiasco, for which the Ministry of Labour was more responsible than the Fund itself. The fact is, savings from this account cannot be counted. The second hole in this plan is the assumption that the cost of operating the grant fund should be reduced by 5 %, in order to account for the reduction of support services such as staff, financial and accounting services and pear. This assumption somehow does not go hand in hand with the government's promise that no one will lose their jobs in this process except the Director and the members of the Supervisory Board. The staff, financial and accounting services are the internal services of the Fund, i.e. they are carried out by public servants. The main cost of operation is their salaries. It is therefore difficult to believe that they would achieve a 5 % reduction in the business costs of the entire fund without reducing the number of employees in these services. However, if the Fund currently has unduly high costs, it is necessary to ask why the Fund’s management and the Minister of Labour have so far allowed for irrational action. Because of the above-mentioned law, we will not support it. Connecting is a complex process that has high costs on its own, but it also interferes with the functioning of funds, which is already not exemplary in any way. They are critical of scholarships, for example, so I would like to remind you of the words of the Chairman of the Labour Committee, colleague of Pikla, who said: "In the organization, be careful, slowly, thoughtfully." These conditions were not met here. It seems to be rationalisation because of the rationalisation of ourselves, so we will, as we say, abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u15	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! In the New Slovenia Group, we are not inclined to join the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarship to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. There are two very different areas of work. A larger and more complex Fund for the Development of Personnel and Grants is expected to join a smaller, guarantee fund. It is unclear at what time, how and at what costs two entirely different information systems will be brought together. It's also a worrying way. It is a feeling that someone wants to achieve his or her political goals quickly. The novel’s text was poorly prepared and flawed. At first, the proposal did not foresee funding from the Cohesion Fund, which is an extremely important source of funding for the Fund for the development of staff and scholarships, as it funded the project Technical support with twelve jobs. Inconsistentity was also highlighted in the opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the Council of State. At the meeting of the parent committee, we were able to hear that due to the unfinished plan of accession, delays in the regular operation of the Fund for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships can be expected. The Ministry was called upon to act as soon as possible and to allocate the procedure to the working group of the two Funds. It was only after the opposition's amendments and all the warnings that the coalition slightly corrected the article's text in a direction that would allow at least a normal transition to a new form of action. Christian Democrats, as we have already mentioned, do not see any legitimate reasons for the planned accession. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities discusses the planned savings of €200,000 a year, which experts say is not realistic. Let us also draw attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on whether the law in force, which for the second time significantly expands the work area of the Guarantee Fund, provides a sufficiently comprehensive and appropriate basis for the operation of the Fund. To conclude: in Novi Slovenije we are in favour of reducing bureaucracy, administration, simplification in public administration and merging various bodies of the same or related field. However, we are not in favour of bringing together completely different areas, as proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons with this novel. For all of this, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! Dear Members, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we support the solutions brought by the novels of the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In the light of the reduction in the number of agencies and funds, we support the accession to the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund already has competences from various fields, since the Fund’s core operation, namely the payment of workers’ rights in the event of insolvency of the company, has been extended several times. First, the Fund has been given jurisdiction to decide on the rights of children in the event of non-payment of maintenance and since 20104 the Fund has been monitoring compliance with the quota for the prescribed number of persons with disabilities. Even though we support basic solutions, we have a few questions about the amendment of the law. So far, we have not received an answer to the question of what will be the final costs of the merger that will take place, for example, because of the relocation. It would also be good to have an answer to the question whether the information systems used by both funds in their work today are compatible and whether the linkage from this point of view will have a negative impact on the work of both funds. Since the number of employees should not be reduced, we are also interested in what will happen to employees mainly in services that will become common, such as human resources, accounting and the like. However, we sincerely hope that the accessions will be successful and that the new common fund will be able to begin its work quickly enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u19	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a bill to supplement the law on the inspection of the act by summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. The bill is being proposed at the 22nd session of the 4th session. 5. 2016 treated the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u20	In the SDS Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on Inspection of Work, which was tabled in the United Left parliamentary procedure, we did not object. We are convinced that the negative effects of hidden labour relations on the labour market and on the social and economic security of employees on the basis of such relations must be addressed as soon as possible. We are also convinced that it is not possible to wait for the systemic solution proposed by the Ministry, because it would probably be difficult to come up with such solutions before six months. All who know the functioning of the government and of the coalition know that this coalition and the government are mostly dealing with themselves, with their problems and scandals that do not appear to be over. Therefore, it is necessary to look for different ways to help those employed in one way or another. Notwithstanding the fact that the proposal may not be systematically completed, it would be possible to improve the legislative process further and thus adopt the objectives pursued by this proposal of the law and are already legal in case of black work. The unwillingness of the Government and the coalition to address cases of exploitation of workers under contracts or workers provided by the Agency without authorisation only indicates that the Government and the coalition are not interested in the problems of these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u21	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Once again, hello to all present. In the Desus Group, we agree with the intention of the proposer, because we see and note daily that the abuse of workers, despite the relatively or very intensive work of the Labour Inspectorate and the Financial Administration Inspectors, is still far too much. We recognize and realize that employers are very resourceful, and workers are already exposed to the literal game at the starting point as a weaker side: take or leave and consequently subject to exploitation and abuse. When it comes to the basic existence or even the survival of man and his family, many do not wonder whether they will take the job through such or other agencies, through espionage or something like that, but simply take the job because they have no choice but to do so. It is not just these two groups, but the apparent massive violation of labour rights in all types or forms of work. Violations of labour rights are being stepped up, even violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and therefore, according to the assessment of Members and Members of our Group, it is essential to take action in the legislative field and to implement the existing legislation in a consistent manner. In order to understand each other, it is not possible to throw all the job providers in the same basket, for we have many honest, correct employers who not only respect their legislation but also respect their workers and do not exploit them and do not see in them just the cost that needs to be reduced as quickly as possible, but pay them properly and reward them or otherwise reward them and ensure their satisfaction in the company as well. There are also employers who are aware that a satisfactory worker also means a satisfactory and successful life for businesses. In addition to taking action in the legislative area – it is essential to approach this as soon as possible, regardless of the fact that we have some mini reform with some positive effects from the past two years – there is also a need for a mental leap in our country, a thought shift mainly in our heads. These proposals have been misrepresented for years. Until once the minds of those who have more power than others are turned into minds, such and other abuses and violations in our country will unfortunately not be avoided. As regards the concrete proposed additions to the Labour Inspection Act, our legal and legal practitioners have also made their point, and have also given a negative opinion by the Government, which is not indifferent to this difficult and very complex issue. Noting that this law alone will not help to improve labour market problems, we have already said our own or rejected our proposal in our parliamentary group. And that. We have recently become more familiar with the issue of the so-called vanity of the work prepared by the department. The measures that have been taken in this document go in the right direction, according to our assessment, while negotiations and discussions between the social partners are still a matter for us Members to be the last in the decision-making chain to confirm or reject the matter. We will always and always have in our heads what is good for people is good for the country as well as for our group of Members, if you will. It is essential for us to reach a consensus between all those involved, i.e. employers and trade unions. Once this consensus has been reached, the phase victory has been achieved and we are on track to improve the existing situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u23	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! An appropriate relationship between safety and flexibility, which must be ensured to all labour market players, is essential in the drafting and adaptation of labour legislation. With a global view to ensuring flexibility for employers, it is so crucial that an adequate level of safety for employees is also ensured, and a broken relationship on the one hand or on the other creates negative effects on the development of the economy and society as a whole. In Slovenia, the last labour reform took effect in 2013 and the changes were aimed primarily at upgrading the system of safe flexibility by ensuring better protection of employees' rights, reducing labour costs, simplifying employment and forgiveness procedures and more effective monitoring and judicial protection. Two years after the adoption of the reform, we can see that the effects were mostly positive. Today, companies are more often employed than they are before the reform, and the increased employment in this category is most pronounced, and this is our greatest joy, among young people. One of the most up-to-date challenges in the labour market, however, is currently a growing gap between atypical forms of work and work under the regular employment contract. We have therefore prepared a document this year entitled Decent Work for All. We would like to encourage the debate on the causes and consequences of the use of these atypical forms of work and in social dialogue to create more appropriate solutions to the existing situation. Above all, through the concept of decent work, we want to put in place a framework for an effective regulation of the problem of exorcism and others; we need to stress that no less is the problem of abuse of people, employees who want to live with dignity from their honest work. It is essential, however, to ensure that both political parties and the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Field Affairs jointly implement solutions coordinated in social dialogue and on the principle of maximum balance of safety and flexibility, both from the employer's point of view and from the employee's point of view. The one-time, partial measures, which are above all not yet coordinated with the partners in social dialogue, are therefore contrary to what we are advocating by the Social Democrats. That is why we are more inclined than to inflation inspection measures to implement the concept of decent work consistently for all. For a sustainable and long-term solution is more urgent than actions that come and go. Finally, the most important balance between security and flexibility is the conflict between capital and work in its core. We believe that this conflict can be overcome. The tool for this can only be a responsible and inclusive social dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u25	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you again, Mr President. Good-bye! We have a double practice in the prevention of imaginary jobs in Slovenia; on the one hand, we have a tax inspection. If he has a pen job or a job on bad luck, he'll be inspected by a tax inspector. For if he finds out that someone is employed in black, he says no work. The prohibition shall apply until the employer hands over the contract of employment to the employer, submit it to all relevant social security and settle all outstanding obligations. For the tax inspector, only one form of black work is forced by espions. The consequences for the worker are practically the same: the worker is not without insurance, but mostly secured with a minimum basis; he does not have the right to a paid hospital, to a paid leave and to a regress; he does not have the right to cancellation periods and to retirement. This means that in the case of forced espions, in those who are employed through fictitious agencies, and in those who are working in black, we have practically the same situation: the worker is injured, the country is damaged. Therefore, I repeat that if such a worker is lucky, an inspection will be carried out by a tax inspector who will charge the employer with the payment of all the wrongs; therefore, he will apply for insurance, hire him and so on. However, if the worker is less fortunate, the company will have control of the work inspector, where the worker will land in a significantly worse position. The decision of the Labour Inspectorate, contrary to the decision of the Tax Inspectorate, allows the employer two options, and may cancel the employee without any dismissal or payment, but may conclude an employment contract with him. Since employers live on the exploitation of workers, of course, they do not usually dismiss the worker first. They force him to sign a new copyright contract if he doesn't land, they hire him through the agency. If he doesn't agree to it, they hire him for a short period of time and pay him off through the afternoon espionage. The worker is severely injured here, and the same is true of the state, which is left with no contributions paid. If the worker also refuses to do so, he is dismissed, which is a grave violation of the Labour Relations Act. Labour law is based on the assumption that the working relationship exists when there are elements of the working relationship. With our proposal, which is, unfortunately, the last time before us, the practice of labour inspection would be aligned with the practice of tax inspection. So if we find an employer who violates labour law, the labour inspector, like the tax inspector now does, should hand over the employment contract and pay all the contributions. What we propose is essentially the realization of the idea that the Ministry of Labour has written in a decent work document, I quote, "the inspectorate, when determining the elements of the working relationship, can also impose on the employer the obligation to submit contracts of employment". Our proposal is only more universal because it also includes agency workers from illegal agencies. The procedure is similar to that of espies, only if the user does not extradite the contract in this case, but must offer to conclude the contract under certain conditions and the worker decides whether to hire the user. If he refuses, he remains employed with the Agency, but of course he must no longer work with the user. The position of the United Left is that the Coalition and the Ministry of Labour made a serious mistake when they did not join the legislative process. The Ministry received the initiative of the press union at the same time as all parliamentary groups. Moreover, last year the Ministry has called on the Labour Inspector and the Ministry has been aware of its error since 2014 when the same team proposed it. When the coalition and the government did not support our proposal or even wanted to talk about it, the employers received a clear signal that illegal exploitation could continue. This will go to a great extent to the detriment of employees, as there is a large-scale investigation in the media houses, only 49 of them have been found in the media house, and the union estimates that there are still 600 such external workers in the entire industry. The fate of all of these is now at stake. The reason is that the coalition and the government refused to listen. It seems that the debt write-off story is repeated, then we proposed a proposal, Minister Anja Kopač did not support it, because she ensured that she would prepare her own, but it was a fiasco. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u27	Time!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u28	Right away. The Ministry accounted for 100,000 beneficiaries, only 3 000 500 were repaid. I'm afraid it'll be the same this time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u29	The New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u30	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The scope of detection and follow-up to undercover work relations, which the drafter wishes to regulate with this amendment of the law, is extremely attractive. We all remember the recent media stories of the exploitation of truck drivers and workers in woodworking. Christian Democrats are aware that these stories are only the top of an ice mountain. People — in many cases foreigners who have come to Slovenia to seek a better life — have been robbed of all human dignity by such exploitation. For us, that's unacceptable. These stories are one of the areas where the development of our country after independence has gone in the wrong direction. We wonder how this is possible when competent institutions have led and developed most of the years people from parties called social ones. These institutions with the Ministry of Labour, Labour Inspection and others have been completely cancelled. The system has thus increased and has become entangled that it is in practice ineffective and ineffective. Labour inspectors do not have the appropriate legal basis for effective measures that are insufficient and fraud is always one step ahead. Trade unions, on the other hand, do not perform their functions. Let us recall cases where workers and workers take matters into their own hands and show their distrust to the unionists. We hope to say that trade unions today do not do enough, much less, for workers. Christian Democrats are committed to incorporating European standards into our labour law and to ensuring working conditions, working time, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, regulating working conditions that go beyond these standards must take place in a dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or trade unions. Our vision of society is a strong and knowledge-based ecological social market economy that allows access to work for all citizens and citizens, a good payment and social rights. The novelty that we are dealing with is pointing in the right direction, but the proposed solution is both substantive and procedurally controversial, as the Legislative and Legal Service also warns. Members of New Slovenia will not object to the news.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u31	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we agree with the assessment of colleagues from the United Left who have prepared a novel on the Labour Inspection Act that measures should be taken to protect workers who have 'closed hidden working relationships'. According to our assessment, inspectors should be equipped with effective powers to ensure respect for legal provisions. While self-employment should continue to be promoted in cases where it is not an abuse of this institute, effective solutions should also be found in cases of abuse. It seems to us that one possible solution is also an obligation to enter into a regular working relationship, but it is necessary to take into account the aspects to which the Legislative and Legal Service refers. Colleagues Members from the United Left have also drawn up appropriate amendments and have been facilitators of coordination with the coalition in order to find the best solution together. Unfortunately, there was no good solution to the coalition this time, and the fate of the novel Labour Inspection Act has already been known. Nevertheless, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members at the principal level, we support and vote in favour of the solutions they have drawn up in the Group of the United Left, if they were not already rejected on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u33	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The Law on the Inspection of Work, which we are considering today, highlights the issue of covered working relationships and infringements in the field of ensuring the work of user workers when employers do not have the right permission or are not registered in the relevant register. This issue is also highlighted by the Labour Inspectorate, which states in the 2015 Annual Labour Report that the trend in civil law contracts is in practice increasing, but the assessment of whether there are elements of a working relationship in a particular case is not easy in practice. Employers are always looking for new and new ways to cover this up and circumvent the legal ban. The proposal on the issue under consideration proposes two legal solutions. First of all, it proposes that the decision issued by the Labour Inspector in the case of the performance of work under civil law contracts and the elements of the employment relationship shall act as a decision on the existence of a working relationship between the worker and the employer. Unless the employer proves otherwise, it is assumed that the working relationship exists from the day the worker started working with the employer and is concluded for an indefinite period of full-time work. The applicant also proposes that the decision issued by the labour inspector be taken by the user when it finds that the posted employer who does not have a permit for this activity has been adopted by the user as a constitutional decision establishing a working relationship between the user and the agency worker. In the SMC Group, we point out that labour inspectors do not determine the existence of a working relationship. The determination of the existence shall be within the jurisdiction of the working court. The inspector shall determine, for the purposes of criminal proceedings, only the elements of the working relationship if there is a suspicion that such elements exist in a contractual relationship. In cases where the user accepts a posted worker from an employer who does not have a permit for this activity, consideration should continue to be given to the possibility of a legitimate way of remedying irregularities in such a detected infringement. The primary remedial measure is therefore the employer’s entry into the relevant register or records for foreign employers. We also point out in the SMC Group that there is no way that we can treat an infringement of the legislation governing labour relations and the labour market individually. When we are talking about the illegal use of atypical forms of work, we must, in the first place, address solutions for more effective supervision, informing the interested and the general public, addressing the causes of the use of atypical forms of work, including the flexibility aspect as a aspect of labour costs. To this end, the Ministry of Parts of the document For Decent Work has also prepared a starting point for amending legislation, namely the Labour Relations Act, the Labour Market Regulation Act and the Labour Inspection Act, and has drawn up appropriate solutions to both problems raised by the applicant in the paper under consideration today. In the SMC Group, we stress that these solutions, which we have already highlighted on the Committee and as the Secretary of State has promised, are expected by autumn. As stated in the Group of the Parties to the modern centre of the bill, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with their first signed Magi are members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed Magi Act. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u36	Hello! Respected colleagues and colleagues, novelty or amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, prepared in Novi Slovenije, bring two key innovations that will significantly improve the business environment and provide more jobs. They bring double status to Slovenian citizens and, second, limit the reimbursement to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance due to the consequences of accidents at work. If I touch the double status myself first. Today you have many citizens who meet the conditions for retirement and could already receive a full old-age pension, but for various reasons they want to continue working. They want the activity they have been carrying out so far to be carried out in the future, or there are any other reasons why they want to open espies and do certain other services in peacetime. The current Slovenian legislation is such that pensioners must decide whether to give up part of their pension in order to be able to continue their activities. We think that this is the most stupid thing to do to limit citizens in this way, and therefore we allow this change to enable citizens to receive a full, 100 per cent old pension and at the same time open espies, to pay full contributions for full-time work. That this solution is correct, we are also encouraged by the last opinion of the Government in the White Paper on pensions, which clearly states that this is one of the solutions that must be implemented in the future. The fact that the non-implementation of dual status is harmful for citizens is also said by very specific data. As a result, only in January 2016 and February 2016, a thousand 942 espies were deleted from the basic register. Domestically, when espouses were available, whether they would continue their activity and receive only 20% of their pension or would close their activity or transfer it to another relative and receive a 100 % pension, more or less everyone decided on this second option. In some ways, the country has lost a thousand,942 individuals who have paid full contributions or at least part of their contributions to the pension and health allowance. With this dual status, we want to introduce a principle where it is understood that everyone employed is a dual benefit for the country; because it pays into certain state-owned cash registers and does not just collect from these state-owned cash registers. The second point that we are amending in this law is the limitation of reimbursements that the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance may require from employers due to the consequences of accidents at work. We've had this attempt this year. Unfortunately, he was a failure. In this attempt, we have further elaborated this law, drank it even more clearly, and wrote very clearly that when an employer causes an accident, an accident on purpose – I stress, on purpose – it must fully absorb the costs of all the pensions and treatments itself. However, if these accidents are due to unfortunate circumstances, we place a 20-fold limit on the minimum pension base for both legal and natural persons, which means nominally around €15 000. So, with the support of this law, we will take a major step forward towards improving the business environment and more jobs, so I invite you to support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u37	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Government of the Republic of Slovenia Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin doesn't support and believes he's not fit for further consideration. With regard to the proposal for amendments to the ZPIZ-2, we point out that similar amendments were proposed already in February, in relation to the compensation or retaliatory claims of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office against employers who, due to their negligence or even their pretense, suffer harm. The new proposal differs from the previous proposal only when the compensation is limited upwards, which will no longer be possible after a new amendment if the employer acts on purpose. In the opinion of the Government, the reasons for the Government's opposition to the proposed amendments are precisely explained. It is clear from the proposed amendments regarding the regulation of complaints and explanations that the applicant does not distinguish between the individual’s liability for damage to the institution and the employer’s liability for damage to the institution, but that both systems are intertwined. However, the distinction between them is essential as the assumptions of compensation liability differ in both cases, which must also be taken into account in the next procedure. We stress that compensation for uninterrupted or under-executed safety and health measures at work is a consequence of the employer's ability to cope, which also seeks to ensure the preventive role of the system of safety and health at work, as the employer is deterred from doing so by threatening to pay compensation for violations of the safety and health rules at work, thus also improving the overall level of safety and health at work. With regard to the proposal to amend the dual status of independent entrepreneurs, however, the Government points out that in relation to these provisions, which allow for the combination of maintaining the status of the insured while receiving the pension, there is already an assessment of the constitutionality of such an arrangement, and we therefore consider it appropriate to wait until further decisions have been taken by the Constitutional Court. Even in the event of a possible amendment of legislation, as also indicated by the White Paper on pensions, there is a need to be a prudent approach and, in particular, an arrangement that will be the same for all pension policyholders, not just for a particular interest group. We stress that this requires systemic solutions within the framework of legislation and problems cannot be resolved by simply amending one article, especially not in the proposed way. It should be pointed out that the proposal for a law has only a flat-rate assessment of the positive effects of the proposed changes on public finances due to an increase in the income of independent entrepreneurs who could maintain the so-called dual status. We propose that the Members of the draft law submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Group of Members and Members do not support it, as the bill opposes the rules of employers' liability, the rules of protection and health at work and the obligations imposed on employers by labour law and health at work and the proposed regulation of the dual status of independent entrepreneurs is non-systematic, weak and questionable in terms of the principle of equality of insurers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u39	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much once again, chairman, and once again a nice greeting. Briefly on the position of the Desus Group: we will not support the proposed solution. A novelty of the pension law, the authors of which are colleagues from Nova Slovenije, opens the matter, which we have already discussed twice at the 17th session and at the meeting in December of last year. First time. We discussed the regress requests at the 17th regular meeting of the National Assembly and, by a majority of votes, assessed that the proposal was not appropriate for the continuation of the legislative procedure. As for the last time, we are now Members of Parliament and Members of Desus in the position that the proposal to reduce employers' liability in the event of regressive claims in the event that disability arises, the need for foreign aid and service or even death arises, because unintended or gross negligence has not led to measures for safety and health at work, is inappropriate. As a natural person, more responsibility is imposed on the individual than his employer, as this proposal adds to the previous proposal that the applicants place full responsibility on the worker in the event that the damage is caused on purpose. While we understand and know that workers sometimes behave quite irresponsiblely in the workplace, sometimes they do not comply with safety rules, and, on the other hand, it is necessary to say that the employer has the right and duty to prevent the worker from doing his job if he does not meet all safety standards. The fact is that it is necessary to take into account the entire logic of compensation legal relations that have general principles since long ago, if you want from ancient Rome, put in such a way that more care is required for those who carry out the activity or are employers, and more is required of them than for, I will tell them, lay persons or individuals and workers. However, despite the relatively low level of regression claims or subsequent actions compared with those made by the Health Insurance Authority, it should also be pointed out that the loss of funds resulting from the proposed solution of the proposed amendment should be borne in solidarity, meaning that the difference should be covered by all insurers, even if they are not guilty, and in the final stage of the state budget. In this substantive part of the bill we have been and are also now critical because this proposal does not end up destroying the preventive role of the system of ensuring safety and health at work, as prevention is the very essence of deterring possible infringements by threatening to pay compensation. It's probably not necessary to remind you that already in the starting point of the relationship, a worker against an employer needs to be taken into account that the worker is the weaker side, the weaker party if you want. Last but not least, we are asking whether it is really appropriate that, in the event of all infringements of the labour rights that are on the rise, even violations of the fundamental rights and freedoms that we are witnessing virtually every day, and we are sad to see more employers being abandoned in this work. Another time. The second topic of the amendments concerns the so-called dual status of pensioners. In this regard, a number of debates and discussions were also held in the National Assembly at the home work body. That's what we talked about last December. If I return to the 2012 pension reform, it is necessary to say here that there is little silence, then the dual status issue was harmonised, clear and unequivocal. It has been targeted and, of course, is also in the light of ensuring equality between all insured insurers, among all pensioners. With regard to the possibility of their continuing post-retirement work, the latter meant whether you remained an insured person or became a pensioner. In this regard, the distinction between the status differences between independent entrepreneurs was also abolished by the transitional period. With the amendment of the so-called SPIZ-2B in this mandate, the current government, the coalition freed up the possibility of working at the same time as the pension – that is to say, in some ways, double statuses – but it was a fundamental basis for all categories of pensioners to be equal, irrespective of the basis of the work, whether it is a work relationship or whether it is an activity or another form of work where the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides for compulsory insurance. All may remain active or become active and receive 20% of their pension or remain active for at least 2 hours, while the remaining time is paid to an appropriate part of their pension. So it's proportionality. Let me get this straight. For Members and Members of the Commission, this proposal, called this novel, is not acceptable and therefore we will not support it. Once again, I would like to point out that we do not force anyone here to stop doing business, we do not restrict anyone, we stimulate people more if they want to, if they can stay active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u41	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u42	Honourable President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished candidates! The Latin proverb in the translation says that repetition is the mother of learning; of course, it does not apply to repeating mistakes. The employer's commitment to responsibility when he fails to carry out the envisaged safety and health measures at work, which result in an accident at work, out of concern, is a mistake. This mistake of New Slovenia repeats the second time, so I can find out from the proposal's presentation two things: either they have not read or ordered it in their own proposal, or someone else has prepared it in the spirit of transparent lobbying, of course. Usually, what the subject of the law says most about his address is the novel of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. Of course, he does not say anything about the true content and purpose of the proposed novel or law. In fact, this proposal from New Slovenia should be called the law on ensuring unfair competition for good and good employers and the law on lowering labour safety standards and standards of labour rights. From this true title of the New Slovenia proposal, we can clearly and clearly see that the Social Democrats – and we hope that others in this national assembly – will not be supported by this bill. There are several reasons for this, which we will explain in more detail during the debate. And in the core, it's a major problem. When we allow competitiveness to allow negligence or intentional abandonment of the provision of safety at work, we will first strike those employers, by those good companies that today ensure that all these standards do not allow themselves to treat their employees recklessly and do not want them from their own unsuspecting work and do not want to put them in a situation where their health could be compromised or, as the proposaler would have said, God does not give them life-threatening risks. Regressive claims are as such an instrument that tries to prevent this and at the same time achieve an increase in the overall level of safety and health at work. Allowing violations of this concept brings us back to another era. You could even say pre-industrial. For the year we're in, it's totally inappropriate. As for the double status, which is a novelty in this proposal for a second repetition of New Slovenia's error by introducing a law that I have already read the address before, there is a double status. We can see that retirement as such is not compulsory. It is up to each individual to decide, but it can also decide that he will continue to do his job. However, the fact is that at the same time someone cannot be a pensioner, receive a pension and be employed at the same time, have espies, perform business functions in an economic society. Why? Because self-retirement means that conditions have arisen when someone for age or other reasons is no longer able or able to work and the concept as such is also designed to protect people from the fact that, for these and those, mostly social reasons, their working time has been extended while at the same time allowing them to fail to meet the relevant standard of living. The fact is, some want to continue working for such or other reasons. Therefore, a discussion and discussion on the White Paper on pension reform or on the modernisation of the pension system is also open. The government proposal on the table needs to be seriously discussed and, in this context, we need to look for answers to the questions about how to have a more flexible labour market. However, not at the expense of security and not at the expense of ensuring the social standard of people. The mistakes of New Slovenia will not be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr President, and a nice greeting once again. Even in the United Left, we will clearly vote against it. If this law had been adopted, there would have been no other consequence than that, for the first time, there would have been a drastic reduction in safety at work and, secondly, a new method of social dumping. In fact, the claim made by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office to the employer responsible for the injury of the worker is one of the key forces for employers to ensure safety at work. If this force were to be removed and further restricted, the most risky employers would clearly reduce the safety concerns of their employees. As the number of work accidents, including deaths, increased last year, according to the latest figures of the Labour Inspectorate, such a measure is totally unheard of. If this law were adopted, pensions would start to be paid to those who clearly do not need them; that is, those who are able and willing to work full-time and at the expense of all other insurers. This would not only increase the costs of the Pension Insurance Office, which already has insufficient income to pay pensions. Reduce and at the same time legitimize social dumping and unfair competition. How can a self-employed person who only survives on espionage income compete with someone who will receive a pension each month, a self-employed person with a pension, such as lawyers, could compete with other lawyers at dumped prices. The price dictated by self-employed journalists, translators or innkeepers, who would still receive their rent, may be so low that their self-employed colleagues will no longer be able to live with dignity from their activities. This is particularly worrying at a time when the espection of Slovenia is increasing dramatically. The data show that at the end of 2007 we had about 54,000 self-employed people after Surs, without farmers, and that in February this year there were 68 000, which is 25% more than 9 years earlier. That this is huge, we can see that we know that the number of employees at this time on the other hand has decreased by 8%. Thus, in summary, the number of self-employed persons increased by 25 % from 2007 to 2016 and the number of employees decreased by 8 %. As espouse increases, competition between more and more liquefied espouses is also increasing and espousing must be prevented but not further encouraged. Let me move on to the consequences of the law. The first is, as I said, a reduction in compensation liability. Since the proposal was last proposed to reduce employers' liability for injuries at work, data from the labour inspection for 2015 have been published. The Chief Inspector summarized them as follows: "We assess the safety and health situation in the Republic of Slovenia in 2015," I stress, "as inappropriate and inadequate. We do not see any encouraging progress in ensuring the safety and health of workers in the workplaces of the Inspectorate. The number of reported accidents at work in 2015 is increasing with respect to the previous year." These are the clear findings of the work inspection. Particularly worrying is the fact that more than 24 workers died from accidents at work last year, the largest since the beginning of the crisis. In short, the number of accidents is increasing, the Labour Inspectorate says that the safety situation at work is inappropriate and that there is no improvement in the situation at any point. The Christian Democrats have concluded from this that employers' liability for accidents at work must be limited and further abolished. In the United Left, for the same reasons, we have reached exactly the opposite conclusion; therefore, due to the increase in accidents at work, employers must be forced by new measures to comply consistently with health and safety measures at work. Therefore, when adopting the 2015 budget balance and when adopting budgets for 2016 and 2017, we have proposed an increase in resources for labour inspection. Since 2008, the number of work inspectors has decreased from 87 to 77, almost half of which are social inspectors. The result of the decisions of the second Janša government and two so-called left governments is that in Slovenia we have only good 40 working inspectors, while the number of business entities is increasing each year. Thus, 40 inspectors control more than 190,000 business entities. These figures alone indicate that their work is virtually impossible and that it is not possible to control, so it is not surprising that the number of exploitations is increasing and exacerbating each year, while the number of accidents at work is increasing and exacerbating. In doing so, the 2015 Inspectorate's report can also explain the structure of employers in whom the most fatal accidents occur. These data show that safety is most at risk in small businesses, i.e. those that are growing the most. And these companies are in the category of companies that the proposal of Christian Democrats would best protect by limiting compensation liability. As I repeat, colleagues from New Slovenia, there were 24 deaths last year, of which only 4 were in companies with more than 250 employees and 12 were in companies with less than 10 employees, i.e. micro-enterprises. In short, safety at work is the first time a problem can't be denied. In addition, I stress that the largest is right in the smallest companies. The National Assembly should not play with the health and life of employees, so we expect the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and its parliamentary representatives to stop such provocations and we expect the coalition to reject this proposal in a consistent manner. Now, the second problem I've pointed out before is dual status, i.e. retirement. In the United Left, we reject all proposals, not only those that we hope will not be accepted, but also government proposals that would turn the solidarity pension system into a pension. The pension is for those working people who can no longer survive their work. The law, however, assumes that this moment will occur at the age of 60 if the worker has worked for more than 40 years and in other cases later. If the worker has the opportunity and ability to work, he does not need to retire unless he is a public servant and loses his job after the ZUJF. If a worker retires in part, he is entitled to a partial pension. If he retires in full, he can perform occasional work, he can also be the procurator of his company and so on. However, if he wants to work as a self-employed person for a full-time job, he is grateful, but he cannot be in a state where he can still pay his pension. Because there is no pension in our system for saving in the past, we have a solidarity pension system. Employees and self-employed are not savers who voluntarily pay premiums. With us and other modern countries, we have a flow system in which contributions are spent on current pensions. Since current contributions are not sufficient to pay pensions, we need to ensure a difference from the budget. It's called intergenerational solidarity. Every form of income is in conflict with this system and we undermine it. As I said at the outset, pensions are particularly problematic because, if we put in place an arrangement whereby full-time self-employed people can also receive pensions, this would mean that they are placed in an unequal position with other self-employed people. If we have such, say, a self-employed journalist who works full-time and receives a pension while on the other hand a self-employed journalist who does not receive a pension is this second, clearly, competitive advantage and can work at a lower price than his non-retirement colleague. That's the problem. The problem is that we will reduce the prices that self-employed journalists can pass on without rent and we will introduce some form of social dumping, thus putting them in an impossible position, and now their situation is not very envying. Therefore, as we say, we cannot support this law in the United Left. However, as I said, for the first time, we do not support the introduction of such social dumping, and for the second, we cannot assume responsibility for reducing employers' liability, who already seem to care too little for their employees because we had 24 deaths at work last year, and to further reduce employers' responsibility would be directly unheard of.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u45	The New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u46	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In our core programme, Christian Democrats advocate the inclusion of European standards in our labour law regarding the provision of working conditions, working hours, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, working conditions that go beyond these standards must be addressed in social dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or unions. The State must invest more resources in promoting health in the workplace, raising awareness and informing employers and workers and should result in fewer accidents and consequently less costs for the treatment or payment of pension and disability benefits. In New Slovenia, of course, we support the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we added to the parliamentary treatment, since the promised systemic solution of the coalition was not yet available at this time. The key solutions presented by the novelty are: the regulation of the scope of the regressive claims of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, PPIZ, so that the employer is liable only if he violates the rules on safety and health at work on purpose or because of gross negligence when the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence is not. The legal limitation of the amount of the compensation, on a maximum of 20 times the lowest pension base, except in the case of an indemnity, and the arrangements for the dual status of pensioners. The application of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office to employers is regulated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2. The regulation is similar to the regulation of the regression claims of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia to employers. We have already discussed them, and the proposal of New Slovenia was unfortunately not adopted. The problem in the area of excessive and unpredictable regression claims has not been the case since yesterday. Traders and small entrepreneurs have been alerting them for years. The fact is that current legislation and practice are such that a specific employer can have well-ordered internal acts, rules and education for workers in the field of safety and health at work, including workers can be well informed about all these rules. However, failure to comply with the instructions, non-use of safety equipment or any other work accident and, in the worst case, a small employer, who is generally economically weaker, may face such a high regressive requirement by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office that his existence is compromised. Let us note in particular that in the event of the closure of trades or businesses, all, both employers and workers, may be at risk in the case of independent entrepreneurs who respond to all their assets. The second essential proposal to support New Slovenia's adoption of the law is the fact that, by limiting the regressive claims to a maximum of 20 times the minimum pension base, the basis for the creation of insurance products by commercial insurance companies is to be based. Currently, craftsmen and entrepreneurs cannot insure the risk of regressive claims in commercial insurance companies. Even with regard to the regulation of the dual status of pensioners. Christian Democrats believe that the current solution is criminal and has created inequalities before the law. In our view, each insured person must be able to continue his or her activity as an independent entrepreneur or set up, while receiving the full retirement pension to which he or she is entitled. Why would the state prevent someone who would want to do this after retirement? We're talking full retirement. We estimate that this can only be good for the pension fund, as the full contributions of these insurers will be an additional inflow, which the state has given up with the government novelty. We also estimate that such a way of resolving dual pension status is more appropriate to pensioners than the one recently introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it encourages insured persons who would like to remain active even after meeting the conditions for old and early retirement to do so legally. Members of New Slovenia will support, in their votes, the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u47	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u48	Honorable President, Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! The version of the novel Pension and Disability Insurance Act, discussed today, refers to two solutions that we have discussed in the National Assembly in the last few months. The first solution refers to the dual status of insurers or independent entrepreneurs, which proposes that each insured person be able to continue his or her activity and receive the full retirement pension to which he or she is entitled. The second solution, however, refers to the regression claims of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office relating to the employer's liability when there is damage at work or occupational illness due to non-compliance with the safety and health rules at work. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance may require compensation for damage caused by disability, physical impairment, the need for foreign assistance and service or the death of an insured person on purpose or because of negligence. The novelty proposes that in this case the employer's responsibility should be excluded if it is a matter of ease and that the amount of compensation should be limited up to 20 times the lowest pension base. Restricting compensation upstream following a new proposal from the law would no longer be possible when the employer acted on purpose and it is also proposed to limit the employer's liability to the worker when the damage occurred on purpose and in this case the perpetrator is obliged to settle it. The proposed solutions relating to the dual status of independent entrepreneurs are considered to be comparable to those in other Member States of the European Union, although we can find that the European Union members have different arrangements. In some cases, dual status is limited in some way by profit from the pursuit of an activity or additional earnings while receiving a pension at the same time as in Germany, or by any new employment contract, such as in Poland, and there is no difference in the treatment of independent entrepreneurs and workers in a working relationship, such as in Austria. It should also be pointed out that a dual status mother is being tried before the Constitutional Court and therefore the amendment of pension legislation in a dual-status work is not appropriate at this time. In the case of regressive claims solutions, we must reiterate that the current pension and disability insurance arrangements include both liability for the damage caused by gross negligence and general negligence. The format of the fault is determined in accordance with Article 135 of the Bond Code. However, the cause of the injury is required to demonstrate that it acted with special care in its handling of the injury. It should also be pointed out that the employer does not respond when the full liability is on the employee’s side after the applicable scheme, since the pre-condition for the employer’s liability is also a causal link between the illegal conduct or omission and the occurrence of injury. Finally, I should like to point out once again that expenditure from the pension and disability allowance which is not covered by the payments is covered by the State budget, by a reduction in liability and by the proposed limitation of the amount of compensation up so that it is a burden for other insurers. Because of the above-mentioned proposal for legislation in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u49	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u50	Before us is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which proposes two solutions. First time. A proposal to regulate the dual status of insured persons for pension and disability insurance in such a way that each insured person has the opportunity to continue his or her activity and receive a full old-age pension when he or she fulfils the conditions or establishes a new activity while receiving a pension, without already reducing his or her pension. And a second time. It is proposed that the employer's liability under the Pension and Disability Insurance Office would be acceptable if the employer violates the rules on purpose or because of gross negligence, but not in cases where the cause of injury on the part of the worker or in cases of minor negligence. The law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in its first reading for the following reasons. We agree that the pension is a right acquired under the conditions met on the basis of the contributions paid. It follows that everyone, irrespective of the activity he carries out, has the right to a pension when he fulfils the conditions for doing so. Where the pensioner continues to operate, this means only an additional payment to the pension and disability allowance and an added value for the social product. Many pension recipients do not choose to carry out their activities or carry out their activities in black because their pension would fall disproportionately depending on how much work they would have to do in order to compensate for their pension. The current regime also provides for the possibility of abuse of the right to a partial pension, since the payment of a partial pension depends on the amount of hours paid and not on the actual payment made to carry out the activity. In our view, the proposed solution deserves further legislative treatment, in particular to verify its financial impact, which, according to experience from other European countries, should even be positive. However, the second solution proposed by this law has already been addressed in the National Assembly and has not been sufficiently supported. The aim is to relieve the employer of the regression claim by the Pension and Disability Insurance Office in the event of damage to the worker due to the minor negligence of the employer. We are fully aware of the fact that the expansion of the liability of compensation affects mainly smaller craftsmen and smaller private employers, who may also be affected by such a regressive request from the institution. The solution is partly acceptable to us, but only if it is clearly determined, on the other hand, that the disabled worker will in any event be compensated for the damage caused by the minor negligence of the employer in the injury to the work process. The next legislative process could also resolve this dilemma. I therefore call on the other parliamentary groups to undermine the further legislative process and we are working together to find solutions that will be acceptable to all: workers and employers and those who wish to continue their activities even after meeting the conditions for an old pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u51	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Some say it's a mistake, but the question is, whose fault is it? We, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, want to create a business environment in this country where everyone can develop their intellectual and other abilities in accordance with some European values and European standards. That is why we have also asked our research section of the National Assembly, which we are very grateful to him for making this comparison, for these issues, which we want to improve by means of our amendment to the law. This is a product, and a lot of other products are already worth the levels of some doctoral dissertation – I don't want to praise too much now, but this is how I take it, because it's a big tool in our work. The key question is whether we really want to do what we write down in our documents and are accepted by the National Assembly with more than a constitutional majority. What do I mean? I mean – because you know that, as I would say, I am an advocate of the adopted Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, where we said that the European Union or our membership, the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, represents our basic political and value framework. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, this also comes from this novelty of the law; whoever understands it understands, who does not understand, cannot yet be helped by God. One of the values is work. The government and the Ministry of Labour must take into account and must be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that not only corporations are competing with each other today, but countries are competing with each other. But who leads the country – the government runs the country. We all know what the competitiveness of the Republic of Slovenia is within the European space and in a global sense. Not exactly, ladies and gentlemen, excessive crowds outside our doors by foreign investors. At least I don't have that kind of information. I've heard that we have the solution that someone who just meets the terms of his pension goes to retirement and can work for another two hours. At the previous hearing, we had this controversy with the distinguished Secretary of State, whom I highly appreciate. But he's not a member of the government, he has no political influence. We had a problem and wondered how things worked in the country. I want to know how things work. Do you know how it works if you can keep turning for two hours? This works by making the craftsman with 1. 1. 2016 locks up its plant and says, I will no longer mess with these fantasies that are out there in Ljubljana ten meters above the ground. You'll say I'm not telling the truth. I invite the entire government in Prekmurje, if you want more precisely, to the Kobilje municipality, a beautiful green Slovenian oasis, and there you will find that you will be thirsty and hungry because there since 1. 1. 2016 there is no more inn. I'm not much of an advocate of innkeepers, but innkeepers have a very different mission, if you also want sociologically, that people can hang out there, rehash, there's some information system also at the local level, and so on; in short, something that's good. This is a congregation that, because of you, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, is no longer a guesthouse. You'll say, yes, you will. It touched me, you know. But you have to take that for yourself. You also have to admit that when I asked the Minister of Labour what happened to the rash of espaes, and I asked myself specifically for the period January 2016, we have the following data, reports the Minister: decision on the entry January 2016 2 000 875 espas., decision on the deletion of 4 thousand 268. And the secretary doesn't even worry about it. And I'm worried myself. Why am I talking about European values and international comparison? I doubt that anyone has read this because it is much easier to find out who is proposing the law and it is much easier to make fun of the efforts we have made and to make fun of the efforts made by the Research Sector — because they do it for us, for people, not because of who I don't know. Look at the example of Switzerland. Very carefully worked out: two cases, dual status and regression claims. Switzerland – employees and self-employed persons in Switzerland may continue to work or carry out activities after retirement. Austria – dual status, they can work on. At least that's the way I understand it, maybe I'm wrong that the pension was the right of someone who worked 40 years of working time to pay contributions for a pension and is as old as it has to be, and then came to the point where he gets the right to be called a pension. The whole of Europe is talking about the fact that we have to be active for as long as possible and not in Slovenia. I can, but it's only two hours. It's such a theory that I just can't accept it. Come in. Czech. We used to take a similar route. They beat us to the left and right today. Politics must be imagined. Me, too. Okay. Now we have a chance to fix this. France, do you like Mr. François Hollande? See what it says: It may be unlimited to receive a pension at the same time and to carry out work, activities and so on – but it must be full of conditions. Germany, our most important political and strategic partner: Both employees and self-employed persons can work and at the same time receive a pension when they complete a statutory retirement age, which gradually increases in Germany from 65 to 67 years and so on – I do not have enough time to read it to you because you can read it yourself. Then Poland, Luxembourg – yes, there are some of these countries that we would like to be like at the declaration level, but no, this left-centre coalition says: No. Stop. It's better you don't work. That's what people say. People tell me why I'd go there for some miserable, minimum wage, but if I can do something here and there, because furballs don't have a tax box, and I get social assistance and some extra baby supplement and you're on better than a minimum wage. Is that right, ladies and gentlemen, is that right? Now Minister Anja Kopač Dark has been responsible for the work for several years now, but our responsibility is written with very little beginning and that is the problem. We Christian Democrats believe and understand, and we are convinced that money does not grow on a tree, that the social state needs to be financed, and we know where the money grows. Please don’t have such a stepmotherly, even hateful attitude toward employers — I’m sorry, I sometimes feel that employers are the ones who are ugly, who are nothing more than menacing poor workers and so on. When you make 35 and more field visits in a four-year period, you will meet with the real sector, you will see what they will tell you. They will give you precise instructions on what laws and how to change them so that this country can do better. Really, please, let us put this effort, this thought, to let this law go to second reading, there tickled, which for you the coalition that you are most responsible in this country is by no means acceptable, and to take one step forward here. We have purely good intentions. It is true, however, that we made a mistake in the request when we sent it for international comparison, when we sent it to the Research Sector, that we did not also mention Venezuela to see how these things work there. I'm a little cynical, but look, the foreign policy declaration, membership in the European Union -- our core value framework. Let us take a few examples of those countries that have already discovered hot water and are listed here. It just doesn't work any of your marriage solutions. Will you have the inn two hours a day open? It's not working. Look, it's a theory that works in life so that the plant closes and it's over and then usually this fate is sealed forever or for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u53	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer of the Magi law. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u54	For the last two days, I have been lying in my home bed with a high fever, and I have been watching you so little occasionally on the third TV program of Slovenia. You won't believe how different things seem to be in there, over three than in here. When you look there from your home seat, things sometimes seem so banal and so silly and you can't believe it and you wonder how to make boys and girls sitting in the same hall virtually not listen to each other. Let me also take this opportunity to thank Mr Trček and Mr Gantar for their reason and their support for the twenty-five law, because it seemed really impossible and unreasonable for everyone to agree with the solutions, but some have dreamed about some systemic issues, how things were wrong and how they could be more systematically regulated. I think things are going in a similar direction today. If I, as parliamentarians, respected this legislative knowledge of power as one of the key and acted more independently and not only to see what the Government will say and be in everything, I am talking about a coalition that depends on the government, then maybe we should do something different. Slowly it will be necessary to tell people what parliamentary procedures are like. And the first consideration we have today in the National Assembly is intended to exchange views and views in principle. When we let the law go forward, we still have a lot of opportunity in the second reading to amend it in the way we want it to. And given that the coalition has a majority in this House, it can practically accept any amendments. That's what makes them really pointless, sick, stupid statements when they talk, if you talk, we're going to reject it because it's non-systematic. Look, I'm going to pull the parallel again with the Twenty-Fifty Act. Okay, you're disturbed by some things in the law, you're not well-ordered, you're going to rule those things out, but you're going to leave those in the law that you agree with, and they belong to this law. Okay, if we look today, again, some people see only what you want. But this law on pension and disability insurance, which is before you today, speaks of two different solutions; one is about dual status and the other is about these so-called regression claims. What if I touched the double status first? I find it really difficult to understand the socialists, particularly, for example, my colleague Mesca and my colleague Škobernet, giving their views. However, I believed that for socialists, 40 years of working time, Dad-Mother, it was an axiom they couldn't get past. Whenever I listen to them in other debates, they say 40 years of work. Pika! That's when a man earned his pension, and he's got to get it. If I get this debate out of today, it's obviously not like that anymore; there's no more Dad-Mother 40 years of working time. The solution that we want to implement is not to favour anyone but simply to establish some normal frameworks that are not only characteristic of Slovenia, but also of other Western European countries with which we are directly competing. Those who have comments on how this will distort competitiveness and lead everything in the wrong direction, please just bring some of this comparative review along with you, and try to answer why this is acceptable in the countries north and west of us and not in Slovenia. Just answer me this very simple question, and I'll say, "Okay, guys, you're right, I'll sit down, stop, you've convinced me." But if you can't answer the basic question, why would something that works elsewhere — and works well — be blasphemous with us? I mean, it's hard to talk about things like this! If we come from the point of view that the pension is a right and when someone fills in, I stress that the conditions for retirement are full — say, 40 years of working age, 65 years of age — his pension probably belongs to him in one way or another. And now ask yourself which citizen, when he meets some of the pension conditions, will decide to continue to work and receive only 20% of the pension, not the whole. Very few of them. Believe me, when you talk to citizens today, everyone wants to get a pension as soon as possible, immediately, not tomorrow – today! The problem is that because of the pension system we have, which is unrestrained, when the percentages fall, and when people feel that each day they retire later, their pension will be reduced, everyone wants to retire as soon as possible. Therefore, the solution to continue to work and to receive 20% of the pension is not convincing. This solution, which we propose, would also be beneficial to the state budget. I am sure that this is also said by very specific data, and look, I will introduce them to you again. At the beginning of this year alone, the espas closed nearly 2 thousand individuals, more specifically a thousand 942. If you compare it to the previous year, it was just over 4 grand, so only in the first two months of this year, almost half of those espions that close in about one year were closed. What does this information tell you? Yes, simply when people had a choice or 20% of their pension or 100% of their pension, of course they chose a full, 100% pension, and they closed the espé activity, transferred it to their wives, children and worked on it, which is the practice, perhaps even black. With this, the country is losing, and the country is losing, not only does it have to give them 100 per cent of its pension, it also lost all its contributions, these people don't pay any more contributions. In this way there is no income in the pension and health allowance. I do not understand why it is so difficult to understand that if there are individuals in the country who want to continue working to enable them to do so. But there are two reasons why individuals want to continue to work; one is because they may be in purely existential distress because they may have such a low pension that only with extra work can they survive normally, and the other, a better option is that they have such a good and implemented activity that they want to lead the matter forward, but it is incomprehensible by the State that in terms of the business environment this thing is impossible. And another point that is worth warning is that even the Ministry, in preparing the so-called White Paper on Pensions, has highlighted that they are even proposing to regulate this dual status in a similar way as we propose. We want to help the government here more quickly to make these things happen, not in any way. If now this first part of the solution that we are proposing in the law is satisfactorily explained, then I say that those who agree with this solution, and the other part is not, then in the second reading with the amendment you will simply throw it out and only this solution, the two status, will remain in if the other one bothers you so much. What is the first solution that bothers, and what is the second solution, but what are the so-called regression claims. As far as the debate we had in the past was concerned, Mrs Murglov, I think, at that time, she answered honestly and said that this proposal does not lower safety standards; and this could be known and manipulated by Ambassador Škoberne and the Moon. Security standards are not getting worse, we are not in any way interfering with this law in order to reduce any rules relating to safety at work, nor are these standards diminishing in any way. But this system is a little more lifelike. I will now say this in a specific case, because the last reading was a debate on whether these cases are invented or are real. Consider a specific example that we can discuss, and then you can tell whether you feel that way about your life or not. I have before me an action brought by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia to the District Court in Cerknica. But I can read to you, for example, what it's about, that you'll roughly imagine what we're going to do. Among other things, this lawsuit says, "as has already been said, an accident occurred because the worker, despite the fact that the work was done at a height, was not adequately insured". The suspension of the duty to protect a job at the level laid down by the Regulation is therefore in the context of the worker’s fall. The Pension and Disability Insurance Office also contests whether workers had proper safety arrangements. The employer shall affix and defend that all safety arrangements have been made available to the workers. The fact is that the safety device worker, for example, did not use the seat belt, but could have kept it falling. The fact that he did not use it and that there were no other safety devices at his disposal was confirmed in criminal proceedings by all. In order to use security devices, it was necessary to provide the company. Here a very dry legal language is used, but according to the local word, a worker who worked at a higher level has suffered a serious accident because he fell off this working stage, has failed, has partially retired, and has also received EUR 398 from the court or the ZPIZ of this professional rehabilitation pension and this rent, EUR 398 per month, has been imposed on the employer because he has not ensured that the worker would be attached to this high stage. On the one hand, we now have a statement from the employer claiming that he has informed the worker of all these things, and that he has prepared the worker safely how to use them, and on the other hand they have an employee who has not used it. An accident occurs, and the court decides that, of course, the employer is obliged to do everything to keep the worker at such a safety height. What do we suggest? We do not propose, as some in the SD or in the United Left say, that now all these people are forgiven for everything and similar nonsense, but we are only talking about if it goes – and we have written this very clearly – if it is slander, then the absolute employer is obliged to pay all the damage, all the treatment costs and all that goes with it. However, when it comes to the web of some happy circumstances that may happen in many lifetimes, in such cases these compensations are limited to twenty times the minimum pension base, as I said, there is over 15 thousand euros. Despite the restriction being imposed, employers will be punished in any case. Punished. If we are even more precise, I think that even the Assembly of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has accepted certain restrictions that have been imposed, but I think – do not hold me to the floor – that on the 50th timer of this minimum pension base. So we are not talking in any way about employers being completely burdened with all the responsibilities to write off their sentences, but we are only talking about putting these penalties within some reasonable framework.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, asked for the floor. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Otherwise, I wanted to comment later on all the comments made in today's debate, which I will also do, but in view of the debate of the honourable Member of the Magi. Tonino, but I have to respond here, because it's about getting the wrong data. One more time. As regards the closure of the espionage, it should be noted in the introduction: The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in December 2012 in the National Assembly, lifted the exception granted to independent entrepreneurs under certain conditions since 2000, which was called an exemption from insurance. It is said that a self-employed entrepreneur who has completed 63 years of age who has had at least one employee and who has had an open activity at least six months prior to retirement. That was an exception. The new law has abolished it and established a transitional period by which it is said to be legally dry to harmonise the status to which those individuals, who have been an exception, have to decide whether to maintain an activity or to retire. That's all that ever happened to 31. 12. 2015 after a double extension of the deadline. There were proposals, and there was no consensus on the Economic and Social Council. Let's see the numbers. Dear Member of the Mags. Tonin was talking about how many of them had been shut down by espa. The data of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance are as follows: 31. 12. 2015 A thousand 447 independent entrepreneurs were an exception. Of these, 659 decided and maintained the activity, 753 closed the activity and became fully retired, and 35 transferred their activity to another person. This, however, needs to be stressed. You mentioned the White Paper on Retirement. I am pleased that you are quoting her that this proposal is presented in the White Paper, and that it should be discussed, but – what is the point of this proposal? For the discussion, it sets out a proposal for double status for all insurers equally, not just for one stakeholder group. Secondly, it provides for the possibility of double status after full retirement conditions have been met. Not 60 - 40, as indicated in your proposal. And even when you refer to international comparisons, you need to look at the comparison of the whole system as it is. With us, the system is based on intergenerational solidarity. However, if it is a system based on the second pillar, based on the principle of rent, then it is a second question. Perhaps only with regard to the restriction adopted by the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. This is a restriction on natural persons, individuals, not employers. The Council of the Institute shall have the power to do so in law. The limit was set at 50 times the base of around 37,000 euros. However, he certainly did not discuss and propose restrictions on employers. So much for a brief explanation. And I'll answer the rest later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u58	Secretary of State, thank you very much for your response. These matters, which I have quoted, are based on the reply of your Minister to our question. So, she wrote that 880 espies were deleted in January 2016, in February 2016 a thousand 62 espies, a total of a thousand 942 — compared in the first two months of 2016 and 4 thousand 268 in 2015. This is just concrete data that was not invented by us, but we have only obtained it on the basis of the question of the delegation by your Minister. If you agree, Secretary of State, it is likely that at least in this part this topic must be regulated in some way. If I know correctly, you were one of the authors of the White Paper on Retirement. You write about these kinds of solutions. If you feel that this solution is now incomplete in certain parts, you have a relatively simple task. Simply in the second reading through the amendments, you convince your coalition to submit certain corrections to our proposals. When you're talking about working for just one group and we're only eliminating one group in the whole part, that's not true. We planned this or this proposal is written practically for everyone. Therefore, the constitutional assessment was also made because those who are, say, espouses and those who are, say, employed in the public sector were in an unequal position. Because, under certain conditions, even when they reach their age, we know what the conditions are, they can continue their work, but the espouses were suppressed before the choice: this or that, and in this direction a constitutional judgment went forward. Therefore, at least as we imagine, this dual status should be regulated for all in the future in the sense that even a public servant, when he completes the conditions, the age conditions to retire and if he wants to continue to work, would simply not be able to extend the working relationship in the public sector, but should retire, receive a 100 % pension, open espé, pay full contributions, and then this public institution can hire him again to do the things he wants to do for them. Only in this way can we equalize all citizens, but in all other cases, one can be in a better position all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I give the floor again to Secretary of State Peter Pogacar. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for this debate. Dear Member, there is only one explanation. What you are proposing that a public servant should retire in the public sector, open espa, and then be hired by this public authority, a public agency, is a typical infringement of labour law. If the elements of the working relationship are given, the work must be carried out on the basis of a contract of employment, not on the basis of false espionage, which is what you are instigating in your debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u61	Re-representative of the proposer. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u62	Only then will we always have double statuses, double statuses in the sense that something will apply to the public sector, because they will always have a better starting point than those who are self-employed or espa. I can also admit that these things did not grow on my lawn; these things grew on the lawn if you want, the Slovenian trade halls, which have been overthinking things, and have somehow come to the conclusion that when someone meets the conditions for retirement for an old pension, if you want all these people who also want to work through this timebook to equalize, then other options and other variants here you simply do not have if you want to pay full contributions and that they will have the same opportunities. If you have a better one, I'm happy to accept it and listen to it, so with a proposal per day.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u63	Mr. Secretary of State, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u64	A really interesting debate, but here I must tell you, here you have highlighted a comparison that public servants are in a privileged position. On the contrary! Public servants shall be those who, after the ZUJF, have fulfilled the full conditions for retirement, the contract of employment shall expire. ZUJF! All other employees, espouses and all other employees, but no one forces them to retire, no one stops them from doing business, no one cancels their employment contract in the economy when the conditions are met. On the contrary, the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance stimulates them to continue their work under the same conditions. What's he giving him? For each year extra supplemented if you want, the working age 41, 42 gets a significantly higher pension; if you stay employed, you can also espa under the new law with the last change of income, like everyone else, another 20% pension besides your salary. All under the same conditions, only public servants after the ZUJF, once they have fulfilled the full conditions for retirement, shall cease to be subject to the contract of employment. Just to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you, too. The fruity debate will continue with the mag. Bojana Mursich. Let's get the mags ready. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is indeed a gruesome debate, it is very interesting to listen to the Secretary of State and the proposer. I must commend the proposaler's efforts to follow the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to re- table this law, for the second time after a good two months, by supplementing the dual status regime. Let me focus on double status first. We all want as many employees as possible, we all stick to it, young and old alike. Young people want to enter the labour market as soon as possible and older people want to stay active for as long as possible, of course only those who still feel able to work because they know that pensions are quite low and, as the Secretary of State has said, the pension base is also rising with the extension of working time. It's all good and it's all good. Therefore, retirement is not compulsory, except in the public sector, where this is the case under the ZUJF and the employment contract itself is terminated. It is said that each independent entrepreneur decides on his own whether to continue his activity or to transfer his activity to one of the employees or, unfortunately, to close his activity. In our legal system, it is now considered that the receiving of a pension and the status of an insured person are incompatible. This means that the pensioner cannot receive a pension and be further employed. The problem may also arise after this proposal by the proposer in the event that someone decides to work and receive a pension. This is about older people, and after 65 years of age, there are many cases of major health problems and – what happens. According to the proposal of the applicant, such an insured person would receive a pension, be unable to work, receive compensation for periods of inability to work — he said he would be in the same position as the rest of the staff, which is unacceptable to me. In theory, it could also have been that for the rest of his life in the hospital stock, he would have received compensation for the hospital stock and pension. Is that right? Not for me. Such a change proposed by the proposer would constitute an intervention in compulsory health insurance, but I think it would also undermine the active employment policy system. In our legal system, it is also true that the pension is a right of the past work and is intended to provide for material and social security. Your predecessor, a fellow Member, Mr Horvat, mentioned that some independent entrepreneurs decide to close the espionage. Yes, of course, that is also true, but I know quite a few cases where independent entrepreneurs decided, when they retired, to transfer their activities to one of the employees. Of course, they concluded a specific contract, thus keeping employees in the company, or with the independent entrepreneur and the work activity of all employees continued. The Government or we in the National Assembly have also adopted a compromise proposal, which has been in force since 1 January 2016, which follows the objective of this dual status for all insured persons who qualify for retirement and who wish to continue working and receive pensions at the same time. Therefore, an independent entrepreneur, if he retires and receives a full pension, may continue to do so if he is 63 years old and 40 years old without a pension and has been active for at least 12 months before retirement. At the time of retirement, when continuing the activity, he shall employ at least one person for an indefinite period of full-time employment, provided that all contributions and taxes are settled for his employees and for himself. Then here we also have other categories of possibility to obtain a 20% early or old pension for all who meet the conditions for obtaining an old or early pension. This option is open to all who meet the conditions of the old rules. However, insurers continue to have the opportunity to partially retire or partially reactivate again for two hours a day. All those insured who fulfil such conditions of retirement therefore have the option of receiving 75% of the pension provided that they are reactivated and included in the insurance for two hours. Then we still have the pensioners in section 406 of STIZ-2. All those who have claimed from the insurance after the ZPIZ-1 and have already doubled this period for the harmonisation of the double status will continue to be able to carry out activities and receive pensions. According to the new report, they will have to pay a higher flat-rate contribution than before, at the rate of half the full contribution after voluntary disability insurance from the lowest pension base. So they're compromise proposals. On the other hand, the applicant also mentions compensation liability. This is also followed by the proposal, as I have already mentioned, by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, and unilaterally past the agreements to regulate the area of compensation claims in a way that limits employers' liability for compensation. As we know, the employer is obliged to ensure the safety and health of all workers in relation to work, to implement all measures and some employers follow this very closely. We also witnessed this in the National Assembly. Recently, quite a few accidents occurred at work, and the employer, the National Assembly, arranged for all the steps in the National Assembly to be removed from the carpets. Women now have better conditions, or we have fewer problems walking down the stairs, as some inconvenience has taken place in recent times. So, the employer is concerned that we have good conditions for work. It is also necessary to ensure by the employer that the employer provides the basic conditions for work, that is to say, that safeguards must be provided and that we stop soon. Some employers follow this very well, while some have been keeping their workers in unsustainable conditions for quite some time, not providing new protective equipment, because protective equipment such as shoes, gloves, work coats, helmets has a longer time, permanent longer, but shoes and gloves are destroyed and are essential for work, but the employer has not taken care of it. Here I find this compensation responsibility, which would then also be divided into workers, inappropriate. I certainly think that the proposed solution to compensation claims is reluctant to give rise to the feeling that it is the sole objective of economic protection for employers. It is certainly necessary to know that in the worker-employer relationship, the worker is always the weakest party in this process. However, I believe that workers are aware of this, take into account all safety measures at work and that these accidents are also as low as possible. However, we are opposed to this proposal for a law submitted by the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, followed by Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you for your floor. With regard to the question that we have before us today, especially in double status, I wonder why we are talking about espies today. So it's just about espies. I really don't mind. You're telling me we already have one privileged group, that they're professors. This would essentially create another privileged group, although we have already made decisions and in some ways have given it the benefit of being able to retire and continue working for two to seven hours and thus pay the contributions accordingly. I wanted to reach out to public servants, and you have engaged in this dialogue with the Secretary of State. In fact, a public servant who is so hated in our society, and you show him this way, is not privileged, not only in view of the fact that he ends his employment relationship when he meets the conditions for retirement. There's another moment. When a public servant receives a salary, his income is clearly visible. From the whole income he pays all the contributions he has to pay. So, he can't hide a single cent, unlike maybe sometimes in the real sector. Thus, when I listen to you, it seems fairer to me — and certainly this is now in the Constitutional Court and it will be decided — it would be far more fair to say that those who receive a pension are lower than the guaranteed salary, let them do the work, and let them do it to the height of the average wage. And here we're creating inequalities. Of course, it is easier to get a pension so that the country gives you the whole pension and then you carry out the whole activity. So, you do two to seven hours, you report for two hours, and everything else goes where it goes. It seems to me that when I look at this concept of your proposals you're having, you're advocating that the tax registers be abolished, we'll talk about the sheepmen later. Right here, it's called getting a pension, and then I'll report as much as I can. It kind of reminds me of how we citizens understand the state. If we ask our citizens if you're for public education, if you're for public health, we'll all say yes. But if we ask our citizens, you're in charge of paying taxes, the answer is no. This is where the state will destroy us if we pay our taxes. This is comparable to why it is possible in a neighbouring country, but it is not in ours. Because they so understand that they have a right on the one hand and also a duty on the other. Certainly, this solution is fairer, which is currently valid, for those who continue to work to receive 20% of their intended pension. However, as regards the regression application that the Institute has with the employer – I can hardly believe that you have re- tabled it in Parliament. Finally, we have told you all the members of the group that we do not accept this and do not support it, because it is not an issue that this will not work on the basis of safety and health at work. By saying that for reasons such as negligence, the employer is not responsible, you support exactly what your colleague said earlier, that responsibility is written in a small letter in our country. This is the worker's right to have protection and health at work, and the employer will be negligence, I don't know, won't do the service of a machine, but he'll say he's forgotten and someone will become disabled from this address. How can we even compare these things? Do we know what it means to become disabled if a family has such a person at home, if they have to take care of him? How can we even compare these things? I agree, however, that the Law on Protection and Health at Work may have been written in such a way as to ensure that there are not many logistical or some interests involved. Make sure it's as effective as it is to see how many injuries there are at work and how many deaths there are at work. But if we look at what we're talking about, because you're saying that, in fact, small and medium-sized businesses are going to be destroyed. On day 1. 3. 2016 we had four applications for regression for small and medium-sized enterprises and 9 lawsuits; that is, in fact, the number of which the State claims for compensation for their liability — with a capital letter. But I believe that tomorrow or the next day you will come with a bill to protect the disabled. It'll be hypocrisy for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Behind you is Sasha Tabakovic and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I already thought you ruled me out because of yesterday's incident. Thank you for your word. First of all, I'm going to object to Mrs Lilliana Kozlovich when you said the country was giving us a pension. We are paying into the pension fund and then from this fund the state is paying the pension, but it is true that the state has to add a year, I think, a thousand 500 million or something like that – that the Secretary of State will have more accurate data – because there are simply too few contributions paid because there are too few people employed. I do not know all these details, and I think that few people in this country are familiar with all these details about retirement, because we have made this system terribly complicated, and for some people this is different, once again, differently. I believe that Mr Secretary of State knows these details best. However, something crystal clear to me, if someone has been working full-time, then I think he is entitled to a pension, but I know – and this is what I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to tell us how many percent of people who retire, so retire, have 100 percent met all the conditions. I think it's very small. And we are talking about this group of people who want to continue working and who were independent entrepreneurs; that is, those who have created their own jobs and who may still be creating jobs for a few more people. Previously, however, we said that the country must add its resources to the pension fund because there are not enough employees to pay the contributions. We know that we have fewer jobs in Slovenia, so young people are going abroad because there are no jobs. Now we want to say that we don't need these jobs because we want to first of all disable those who have earned a pension and who want to continue working. He can work, but he can forget his pension. Why should I forget it if he earned it if he paid his own money for this pension? That doesn't make any sense to me. It makes even less sense to me why we fear people who know something, who create jobs that are essential to the functioning of this country. I don't get it. I will tell you two cases that are very fresh for me, and I encounter similar cases in Slovenia when we visit companies, family companies, how important it is that this knowledge is transferred from generation to generation. And now that I was visiting the Slovenians in Argentina, I visited two Slovenian entrepreneurs who started out of nowhere; one is 90 years old, three are 88, 84 and these are already heirs, and they are already raising heirs again. How important it is that this knowledge is passed on, that the network is transferred, that responsibility is transferred to the company; and you will not believe in the largest tetrapack company in Argentina, Mr Zupan, aged 90, comes to work every day, but I believe that it is not necessary for him to be able to rest, but because he is monitoring his business. So I cannot imagine why someone who has so much knowledge, experience, or perhaps has no successor to hand over to him if he wants to have a pension, has to give up, close up, or do two hours of work, which is a big nonsense. When we change this relationship to people who are capable of doing something, who have created something, and we will see that these people are urgently needed, important – thank God, and I hope that they will be as many as possible – then we will have a better employment relationship in Slovenia. But when we declare such people to be almost state enemies, exploiters, those who draw state pensions, and I don't know what else, that's a shame. Then a lot of people say why I'm going to hang out, and then I'm going to retire, and I'm just dealing with my cavalry. In this way, he could pass on his knowledge and have jobs for other people. What I'm talking about is that people can work. I meet people like that who say, our boss will retire, and we'll be on the road. But it doesn't go with pleasure. With our tax checkouts, we helped many more people to retire. Look, this is the kind of crap we do. On the 25th anniversary of independent Slovenia, which we have, thank God, achieved, achieved our dream, I have the next dream, which I would like to approach with our country – that in Slovenia the work will be appreciated, that those people who work, that honest work will be paid and that people will all be able to take responsibility for this country, each in their own field. You wrote in the White Paper that this dual status of pensioners should be arranged – we give you the opportunity to arrange it. I wish that in Slovenia this attitude towards the economy, not only to employees who are important, but employees must first be employed, so we need those, and we don't like foreigners, we wipe out our home – yes, whether the country will create jobs, but not the task of the country. We, an institution like Parliament, must create conditions, of course, the government is preparing laws, we help it solve the problems that are in Slovenia, even by listening to people about what is wrong in our society, and we find solutions. Unfortunately, we always hear that this is not systemic, as we heard several times yesterday, that we will do better, that is, that is not possible and so on. This yoke of snakes drags on forever. However, I dream that we will also achieve this goal in Slovenia someday, and I hope that New Slovenia will play an important role in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabaković, the word is yours, followed by Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Today we are re-examined by the opposition's initiative, which we have already addressed in this reference and we have already rejected it on a reasoned basis. The proposer reasoned in his position that they were drinking, drinking, drinking the bill and that today we have something completely different on the table than we had a while ago. I simply cannot agree with this if the applicant drank anything, he could only drink a word game because the content or context of the proposal remained exactly the same or the same. This is probably the case with the Slovenian river that the wolf changes hair, but nature never. Unfortunately, Mr Horvath is not in the hall, but I have to replicate his ticklish statement when he said how badly he was affected when some inn was closed in some local environment, which according to him was a key information centre connecting the community. I have to say that I would be much more concerned if we were to close a cultural home or a school, because I think that these are the two institutions that are some kind of joint centre that somehow connects the community, and that we have to somehow go through the times that apply, that we can make all the arrangements behind the bar. I just can't agree that there's a bar debate going on, not in politics at all. As I have already explained in my position, it is a proposal to protect employers in a way that when there is an accident in a particular company, when this accident has some disastrous consequences for workers, that the employer should then be somehow limited to this liability, if it is to be such compensation that employers would be thrown into some kind of closure of the company or bankruptcy or something like that. In the last debate, when we discussed this topic, I have already made it very clear that in the SMC Group we believe deeply in a high culture of entrepreneurship, which, for its foundation, is simply taking on labour rights, labour law and law, and that it respects the creation of such an entrepreneurial environment, which can be developed by both workers and employers with all the potential that a company with its collective represents. We believe that both sides are equal in this process, both workers and employers. To put it very simply: satisfied worker, satisfied employer, of course. Indemnity liability, as discussed by the proposer, which otherwise poses a problem. In the past, we have turned this verbal relationship into negligence. This is because it is totally irrelevant how we interpret or value this negligence already because of Article 135 of the Bond Code, where the accused must demonstrate that he acted in accordance with rules, acts and that he has provided with special care a secure work process. I repeat, it is not an essential interpretation of negligence, but a question of what the employer has done to avoid an accident. In fact, if we began to interpret or evaluate or evaluate this negligence in any way, we would also break the hierarchy of safety and health standards at work that are of course equal or equally important to each other. Here I would point out that it is not some overly complex, binding regulation, but some minimum standards of safety and health at work that are simply to be respected, in particular in view of some fact that awaits us in the future, it is a question of extending the working time which, of course, in the SMC Group, we understand as necessary. However, I believe that someone else in this call of the National Assembly as someone may be honest or even, I don't know, a hidden, sincere wish. So I understand that in the New Slovenia Group they give priority to capital, but they simply have to understand that in the SMC Group we are somewhat more proportional to this relationship. After all, we're a central liberal party. As far as dual status or pensioners are concerned. There are already two solutions, which we have already discussed at the working body meeting when we discussed this topic. One solution is that an individual may continue to work and, of course, receive 20% of the pension, or that he/she works limitedly from two to seven hours and then proportionally receives a share of the pension. Thus it is not true that in understanding the dual status in the Republic of Slovenia we are exclusive, or as has already been said by the proposer that we have some stupid arrangement. Indeed, this arrangement is different between Member States. In some cases, it is limited to profit from the exercise of an activity or is limited to this status by a new employment contract. Thus it is also a fact that the applicant has not even given what this initiative will have, its initiative, what consequences it will have for public finances, and even after all, the issue is now open to the Constitutional Court. I think we have expressed our views in our discussions. Now, of course, this decision is left to the Constitutional Court, which will judge or judge who was right in this case. As far as our position is concerned, we have already explained that this position is based on the understanding that this pension account referred to by the proposer is not only a savings account, but that we understand the pension as a concept of solidarity and that we understand the pension as a social right if you want that when an individual is no longer able to do the job, that he can, of course, take advantage of this right. I think, however, that it would be particularly right if, in fact, we were to be more specific about this issue in the Economic and Social Council, but it is not, of course, that, in this sense, it is also a matter of a value system which is certainly complex and not as simple or as stupid as the proposalr has already mentioned. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u73	Mr. Horvath, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate my esteemed colleague, Sasha Tabakovic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u75	Mr. Horvath, I'm sorry. You're running out of time. I'm being warned. You can't talk anymore. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thanks for the heads-up. I won't abuse [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u77	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u78	In view of the fact that there is a general debate, if you may be disturbed by the title of the applicant, or if you are disturbed by any specific provisions of the law that you have the possibility to improve in the second reading, let us discuss the principal starting points of this law. First of all, if we say about the dual status that citizens can claim, I would base it on three points. For the first time, do we agree that the pension is a right and that someone who fulfils all the conditions for a retirement pension, both working time and age, is entitled to a pension. Point one. Our assessment is that when someone meets these conditions, he is entitled to a pension. That's another thing. When someone fulfils the conditions for retirement, he will, of course, retire and thus empty out a place for younger people for new expedient individuals. This can also be a nice principle that we agree with. Thirdly, all those citizens, who, despite all the fact that they have all the conditions for retirement to receive a pension, want to continue working, then it is right to pay full contributions, not reduced, but full contributions because they are not in any privileged position or are not unfairly competing with existing employees. If you accept these three elements of double status regulation, then we should somehow come together in a different way. But if you have problems with these three points, then say it clearly, say it, not look for some senseless reasons, but say that because you are an opposition, we do not support you. Otherwise, clearly state, of these three points that I have listed, we are disturbed by this and we are not that when someone meets all the conditions for retirement, he can also get it if he wants to continue working. Only such matters can we discuss clearly. Second, with regard to these regressive claims. Again in three points. We are in favour of providing employers with all the conditions for safe work. This country also has standards and regulations governing what these conditions should be for safe work. These conditions must be met because otherwise this country is punishing you and I do not have a problem with this. That's another thing. Let us punish all those who do not provide suitable conditions because of the scheme — we do not have a problem. And the third point, however, is to limit punishment to an appropriate level so that we do not sink a functioning company. This appropriate level seems to us 15 000 euros over our thumb – you can say that this is absolutely too much and too little punishment. We can talk about these things in a very basic way, because everything else is swimming back into some opposition, coalition rhetoric. Sometimes it is extremely difficult for me to understand the coalition when the opposition wants to help her with some law and would really have a coalition to adopt this proposal, in the second reading to process it in its form and wishes, to earn credit and credit points, the opposition would not even be able to make political gains, so the coalition insists many times on its trenches and thus only encourages some additional conflict in Parliament. I do not see any over-success here and I encourage the coalition to start talking about these fundamental issues where our concrete proposals are disturbing you at the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u79	Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor, followed by Dr Jasna Murgel and Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! It seems pointless for me to repeat everything I have already said about the regression claims or the bill proposed by the New Slovenia Group. In this repetitive procedure, they did not say anything significant new, except what seems to me to be even less acceptable than at the first reading of this bill, that they should take greater responsibility for the accidents directly to the worker, at least if this, according to them, causes this disaster because of their negligence. This seems even more unacceptable to me, as it is clear to us all that employers must take care of safety at work both in espaes and in all other organised forms of work; the employer is responsible for this and must ensure that the worker has the means of protection. We have discussed this a lot, too, when you first introduced these amendments into the legislative procedure. So I really don't understand why you're repeating this, because you can at least about make it clear that we will all insist on our original positions, as we have already expressed in this regard. So also with regard to dual status, and you just repeat it, then we also, not so long ago, in December last year we also made it clear that we want this dual status to be equally regulated for all employees or all pensioners so that they can continue their work under the same conditions. I don't know why they would just point out again those who have their own espies or who own similar forms of organised work. That is why I cannot support this proposal clearly, and I find a completely acceptable solution as it is in the current regulation. For example, in your discussion, you pointed out that if those who are employed in espouses or have their own espouses continued to pay their contributions without benefiting from pensions or benefiting from pensions. If we just look at this: the contributions are substantially lower than the pension and we cannot say that the pension fund would receive the same amount of contributions so that it would not be damaged. But we all know the state of the pension register. You've also discussed a lot about the pension system. I think it's a little premature today, or there's no need, because there could be a lot of debate on this, everyone, and I don't want to focus on this right now, because we have many other agenda items. It is only right that we should devote one special debate to the pension system, including this preparation for a change in the pension system, as you know that we have also been warned by the European Commission that it is too late to start the pension reform only after 2020 or should only start after 2023. So we still have plenty of time to discuss this in depth and discuss it. I would like to comment on a few comments made by my colleague Tabakovic. Satisfied worker, satisfied employer, for that is what he said. In principle, this would be very good, but we regret to note that today’s situation is quite the opposite — a dissatisfied worker, a satisfied employer. I'm sorry. I do not know what we should do in this area in order to make it better, but something sure to go in this direction, as proposed or as said by colleague Tabakovic. I will not be able to support New Slovenia's proposals in any way, because I insist on my original position, which I have already said in previous discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u81	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u82	Once again, thank you to Members of the House for yesterday's support of the law, because of you, this marriage went through, so thank you very much. That no one would say that Desus is just a critic. Ambassador Levičar, see why the state treasury would have more if our solution were to be adopted – because today's arrangement is such that the Espionages are offered, pay the contributions forward, and we will give you 20% of the pension. Of course, no one decides to do that, everyone closes their essays, stops paying their contributions, and they get a full, 100 percent pension. So today you have a solution, and 100 percent of the pension is no contribution, but if our marriage was passed, it would be 100 percent pension plus full contributions. And the country would get what it doesn't get today. As far as the regression claims are concerned. Look, we agree that employers have to provide safe conditions. We agree. We agree that employers who do not intentionally provide adequate working conditions must be punished without mercy – absolutely! But the fundamental question is whether you are saying that 15,000 euros is enough punishment for someone who may not have taken care of the working environment until each peak. Our estimate is that 15,000 euros is a capital punishment. You claim that 15,000 euros is a capital punishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u83	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word, followed by Jean Mahnič and Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all of you on my behalf, too! When I saw this proposal from respected candidates, one statement came to my mind – and we all found that we have discussed this – if you remember a follow-up: "Listen very carefully, I shall say this only once." We do not agree with the proposal of the proposers. For the first time, as regards the dual status of pensioners, he is in the Constitutional Court, which is what the Constitutional Court will say. As regards safety standards at work, these are regulated by the Law on Safety and Health at Work, with which – we have already discussed this – I have also talked about this – transposed into our legal order a directive of the European Union which speaks about this area. And, yes, dear colleague Horvat, we must respect the legal order of the European Union and therefore this directive, which we have transposed into our legal order by this law, as well as the Declaration on Foreign Policy, is in line with this and we have done so with this law. In accordance with this Directive, I have already said, the employer's responsibility to ensure a safe and healthy working environment can be excluded only if it is an unusual or unpredictable event; in short, one which the employer could not anticipate, expect or avoid, in short, a higher force. Therefore, I believe that the regulation we now have in our internal legal order is regulated, including what is regulated in the 190s and, in particular, in the 191st Article of the ZPIZ, which relates to the employer's responsibility. As regards the Bond Code, it sets out the standard to be followed by the employer, and this is the care of a good expert, and this is also reflected in this principle also in the current PSI. In short, we can't lower it and turn it off. I am pleased, colleague Tonin, when you refer to me as saying something, and then my legal opinion is once relevant and important to you, but I have said that your proposal does not lower safety standards at work, but I have also said that the standard of responsibility is declining and the result is the same. Then the result would be the same for the employee. What does this law stipulate in essence? Responsibilities of the employer — For what cases? Here I have also pointed out that the worst cases; when it comes to the disability of the worker, if it is caused by injury at work, or if it is a worker who needs foreign assistance for injury, then it cannot function alone, or even for the death of the worker. Only in this case does the STIZ then have the right to a regression claim from the employer. With regard to this supplement, which you have now added to the scheme, it is not necessary at all, since there is always a possibility of regression in the Bond Code if someone intentionally caused damage. We are really talking about how this law regulates the worst forms of damage that can happen to an employee, and I cannot imagine that they would now reduce the employer's responsibility for these cases. In short, how could we then apologize to these people who could possibly suffer this harm? I have no argument to justify this, because then to whom do we reduce this responsibility and tell the workers that even for the worst injuries and possibly for the death we will reduce this responsibility of the employer a little bit and it will get better and the economy will flourish. [[…]] We cannot agree with this and therefore we cannot support this proposal. As I say, we cannot lower the standards of employer responsibility. More than that, as the colleague said, we can consider regulating perhaps standards for safety at work if it is necessary to settle here, but this is another area and it is not the subject of this law. That is why I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor, followed by Mr Jan Škoberne and as the last Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I don't have much time left, so this fact makes me want to be very brief. Because colleague Tonin thanked so much and said that the Road Safety Act had been passed on Desus' account. Of course, we have proved that, given who the proposer is, we do not decide what we will support, but we are guided by a simple content and we have assessed that such a law should be adopted, and of course we will not support this law for many reasons. The fact that we've already talked about this, like Santa Barbara, seems to me that sometimes this thing happens – I'll be a little bit as graphic as my colleague Murgle – and we don't feel right. Regression claims. The worker – the weaker side towards the employer. Of course, it must be protected by all means, with all four! And do not place responsibilities here on natural persons or disproportionate burdens on the employer. Initially, I have explained more in a long and broad way what you think about this in the Desus Group, and I do not want to repeat it here. Except, of course, that this is not every little thing that can happen at work, but it is those crucial, real accidents at work, when there are lasting consequences, permanent damage, to death and so on, to life support in the life functions of an individual. I think that the employer is responsible here, and employers have to, and say, responsible employers are already doing everything they need to do, and more so that it does not come to this, which is fine. But that's not always the case, sometimes when you have to take preventive measures in law, it's hard for me to get out of my tongue, even with the root of a little stick, and not hit it right away. So we are undisturbed here, and we are not going to repeat it again, and I believe that you will not come back next month or two months with this idea that the matter needs to be modified, because we have already talked about it. That's another thing. Double status. Hell, sometimes I feel like a parrot in here, Matthew, I guess you do when you're defending this thing. Here we see Desus versus NSI, and if you want, Uroš towards Matthew is a purely diametric opposite picture. Of course, at the final stage, nothing is wrong. We come from the pension reform 2012 for the first time and then the change, modification of the ZPIZ-2, ZPIZ-2B. We said that we want equality and equal treatment here for all the insured, all the pensioners. I don't see any reason here for one partial group of people to have some extra credit to do this and exploit the so-called double status against those who can't. I think that we – no, we don't think, we believe that this solution is the way it is, and we don't force anyone, we don't restrict anyone, we don't move anyone to a retirement if he wants, he can, and he's able to work, but we don't want those inferior who can't get out of health or such or other problems to feel neglected. It's only a matter of seconds before I'm out of pension reform. It was – I don't know who said this, that the White Paper meant that double status would be resolved. I think the dual status is resolved, there is a lot of writing in the White Paper; there are also some ideas in the White Paper, some starting points that are absolutely unacceptable to Desus and will be highlighted through the debate. Last but not least, the period of years for the calculation of the pension itself does not seem acceptable, but in the next three, four years it will be enough time to discuss this in more detail. We will not support your solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u87	Mr. Jan Škoberne, your word. After you, Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! For the second time in two months, we are discussing the same subject with addition, in fact, this is unusual in view of the fact that we are not even in the mill, that none of us have lost memory of the decision, that the decision is clear, and that, however, in all the things that we still have on the menu this week, if I may say so, there is probably no need to talk again about something that we have already learned in March about senseless and unnecessary. However, there will be no mistake and because we obviously don't read the magnetograms, then we repeat the same things. It seems important to me that we clear up one thing, namely, negligence, lack of equipment, deliberate abandonment, or anything else, these are not unfortunate circumstances. If an accident occurs in the workplace due to unfortunate circumstances, the employer has taken care of everything that has to be taken care of, of course, there can be no regression. Because there is no reason for this because all standards have been respected! And negligence, failure to carry out their conscientious work, does not take care of the health and safety of employees, it is not an unfortunate situation, it is a fact on the basis of which it is determined that an action or a complaint is to be brought. The second myth of today's debate, as well as those before it, is that we're solving this, and I don't know what kind of crazy problem this is. If I understand correctly, 9 such applications are currently being filed against micro-enterprises and espionage and 25 against all others. Fortunately, we can also conclude from this that in Slovenia there are good employers who care about the safety and health of their employees, and it would be nice to keep it that way. Of course, as colleague Tonin did in his particular case from the judgment also found that there was no adequate protective equipment, that there were no adequate protective tools, but that it should not happen and the responsibility of this national assembly is to do everything to ensure that this does not happen. How can serious companies prevent this? There's one fun thing called education, resource management, even human, human resources management, if you want. Employers are also, of course, obliged to properly train their employees when they move on to dangerous jobs, which is in their own interest, so that they can do the job better. The fact that someone who works at altitude and does dangerous work does not use protective equipment has not been adequately trained and enlightened on the dangers that it poses — leaving aside the fact that the manager of the work should not have put it on the site in any way without protective equipment — is a matter of concern and interest of the employer. And no; this education and social responsibility is not a cost, it is not a burden, it is a key advantage of the best businesses and entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is not in my head that we have a new proposal on the table that essentially does only two things: it hinders honest employers and good and conscientious employers, and it can indirectly affect the reduction of the standard of safety at work. This, I believe, is what my colleague Tonin doesn't want – by the way, I hope you're better, that the heat wasn't too bad. I will allow myself to conclude, even though it may not be most appropriate, but because I am really annoyed by the repetition of the same subjects that we have already decided on with the Bible illustration, it may be easier and closer to you this time. We can get at least three out of this debate relevant things out of the loop: do not lie about the true intentions and effects of the proposed law, do not kill the competitiveness and position of good and healthy employees, and certainly do not hold back from stealing the standards of safety achieved at work and the rights they have. If this reflection helps to reflect in any way, I am, of course, ready as ever, to feel better, to repeat the entire round of debate once again, to highlight everything we have said, and to avoid saying that we are rejecting everything you are proposing, to support the law in this consideration so that we can delete all the articles of this proposal on the committee. But since the process is not intended for itself, but the goal is the result, it seems to me that the law, which has been rejected once and which obviously does not do anything good for people or for good and honest employers, is also to be rejected this time. We'll be social democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u89	Representative of the proposer, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u90	Repeating is the mother of wisdom, and if this discussion has helped someone to look at the Bible more than once, it is also a step forward that I am not ashamed of. From today's debate, we can draw concretely the following things. It is clear that our proposal for a law does not lower safety standards, as also the coalition Member has found. Secondly, our law punishes all employers who do not intentionally provide an adequate security environment. Thirdly, that accidents also occur because of such or other negligence and that employers must be punished for such negligence, our proposal is to set a limit of EUR 15 000. Employers will be punished, but a limit of 15,000 euros will be set. The coalition says that this is too much to practically bring down half of Slovenia. But I'm asking you the following question, answer your question yes, you're right, someone who works at altitude would probably have to say that he won't go to the stage if he doesn't stick with the rope. [[…]] But the circumstances of life are such that someone went up, fell, and an accident occurred. Our proposal is to punish such an employer with 15,000 euros. The coalition proposal is that this is definitely not enough. In this story alone, we also point out another aspect, which is that if we exaggerate with punishment, we will also sink businesses. Ask yourself if, because of such a network of unfortunate circumstances or as you say, negligence in ensuring safety at work, there is such an accident, because I can and will tell you one specific case that was sent to us from the Chamber of Commerce, and it comes from the constituency of Member Škobernet, where the entrepreneur wants an establishment of €70,000. 70,000 euros! This regression claim will, of course, sink this company and bring together five other jobs. In the long run, the country should calculate the damage it will do to the country and to all these employees. In this respect, you have virtually completely forgotten. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Many craftsmen and entrepreneurs say that apprenticeship will never come to life until these limits are established, because it is too risky for the company to take these small and inexperienced young workers because an accident can happen very quickly. As long as there are no such limits, there is no serious possibility that apprenticeship will come to life.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u91	Replica, Mr. Jan Škoberne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Does Mr Tonin understand and represent, on purpose, what we are saying on the coalition side, otherwise, I find it difficult to judge, but the facts he cites in this debate are at least significantly different from his conclusions. And no, not to conclude what you concluded on the basis of the debate that it was. In fact, it saddens me that 15,000 euros can be quite sufficient for you if someone allowed you to go to a high construction without protective equipment and someone fell down, it could have ended with a fatal outcome. Life is worth 15,000 euros. Really?Oh, my God! I mean, that's an incredible interpretation, but there are some. On the other hand, because an employee has failed to fulfil his prescribed duties, duties and responsibilities, we will now pay the difference between the damage caused by the taxpayers. What is your responsibility here and mine? If someone has not taken care of something he owes, and when we give these discharges, that is exactly what we report. No problem, because you don't really need protective equipment, you'll forget it or you don't have to maintain it, it happens, it's unfortunate circumstances, because everyone else is going to cover the damage that happens. President, I have listened if it is possible to ensure that this is done equally with a respectful measure. Yes, we must also ensure, as my colleague Prikl said earlier, that the law makes it clear that negligence that can endanger human life must not allow it not to be an accident of circumstance, but rather a waiver of duty in some way. That someone’s blindness because someone failed to provide protective glasses — the last time we discussed it — was not an unfortunate circumstance. The fact that the apprenticeship model cannot be fully refined or implemented in Slovenia, perhaps, clearly, but this does not in any way bind to the internal education system that a micro-enterprise can also have. Allowing or allowing education on safety at work is something that is done only to sign a document that has been carried out and that you are aware of safety measures at work and that no one is in the process of preventing both economic and health harm. Social Democrats cannot and will not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. As the last discusser in this part. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. After listening to this left-wing story, I must say that I am truly very disappointed with these people and would ask first. Are any of these people here today discussing the matters that we are solving here with this law, ever having espas in his life, with whom he should meet on the market? Let one of you tell me that he wasn't hanged and stuck in a state manger. I want one of you to answer that. Those who have never experienced this, never done it, extremely difficult to discuss in, I will say, a competent way, because I simply hope to say that you are far from what is true and what is reality. Far from it. Your discussions are some kind of theory that's written somewhere, whether you write it down or imagine it, whether you've been taught that way, and it doesn't come out of practice. I don't understand that you don't understand anything, really. I listened today, but I didn't intend to call, but the debate is going across every border. I'm listening to my friend Scobernet. Look, these are pure preachers, preachers in the party system, I gotta say, not the one for the preacher. Amazingly, in what way with ease and how you lead these discussions and in what way and how you try with yours, I will say, such and other interventions, verbal relationships to manipulate the Slovenian public and workers, entrepreneurs and so on. I'm going to focus on this double status. I'll say a few words on the subject of double status. It is very good for all of us to understand the state of this country, the state in which most of the pensioners and pensioners are. And in the end, we make it impossible for them to earn something in addition to one kind of miserable pension – most in this society have 400, 500 euros – and at the same time to pay in the state treasury, in the pension treasury and so on, in the health treasury and to allow themselves to live a little better, and perhaps more of these things would improve in order for people here, including our pensioners, to live better and better. Desus is one of those key people who oppose it. I have not heard any serious reason today why we would not support such a solution. Not one serious one! The shame of Desus' party in Parliament. Instead of defending the interests of pensioners, all such and different and different, we must all have equal opportunities under some pretext. All pensioners in our society are important. But to some, it is said, those who are privileged, who have fighter pensions that they have, I don't know how many extras, there's no problem for them! But those who had espaes and may have barely survived because they are fighting because they are espaes — those who know things — are not all rich. Some have spent their whole lives working and eventually doing what they were doing, making that small pension, and they would still want to do it, and they should be able to do it. That's it, privileged people. On our initiative, the court returned everything to them, the Constitutional Court then attributed that all these privileges are normally constitutional and so on, they can have everything, they can have anything, they can have extremely large pensions, they can have extremely large allowances. And for these little people, the story doesn't apply. You are doing exactly what we are always trying to point out in the Slovenian Democratic Party; you are making a difference between people, you are making a difference between pensioners, which is unacceptable and extremely irresponsible. This debate would also be reinforced by what the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia wrote. I will quote what is important when we talk about dual status: "At the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, we are actively supporting the proposed amendment in facilitating the introduction of dual status. It is pointless and multi-layerly harmful to demand that a craftsman or an entrepreneur shut down his activity as an espé if he wishes to enforce a full pension, which is particularly unnecessary, to the extent that he has employed workers, who in this way also provide them with social existence and allocates appropriate contributions to public treasury institutions. Thus, the Ministry responsible for work, as well as other institutions, repeatedly point out and urge the elderly to maintain activity at the earliest possible age. It should be desirable for this activity to be known in a material sense. This made it possible for pensioners to earn up to 6000 356.79 euros in a dependent relationship without damaging their pension. Similarly, without prejudice to pension, it is without prejudice to the ability to act as a procurator or director on the basis of a civil law contract on management; irrespective of the amount; according to the old ZPIZ-1 there was a limitation to the minimum wage. Also, intellectuals can receive fees without damaging their pension, without limit. The same is true of the earnings of pensioners on the basis of business contracts. For most insured persons consider the pension to be their right, because 40 years, or a woman until the end of the transitional period of 2018, have paid dedicated contributions. Even though the novel ZPIZ-2B extended the Institute of Partial Retirement in such a way that it is possible to enforce three quarters of the pension and pay only a quarter of the contributions from the continuation of the activity, such a dual status solution is not sufficient, does not satisfy the expectations of our members who want to have a full pension. In view of the above, we support the proposal to legalise such a system-wide legal solution, which would allow all retired entrepreneurs to enjoy their full pension immediately after meeting their other retirement conditions, even though they continue to carry out their own independent activity, from which they pay the still prescribed benefits, taxes and contributions to avoid the prospect of unfair competition. And to conclude, the result of such a solution will be more resources in the budget, more income taxes, VAT, more contributions to PPIZ and other institutions, greater social security for pensioners, greater satisfaction for them when they see that they can still be useful and actively co-created at an age, less gray economies and vice versa. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, have any of you read this? Has anyone read this? If anyone has read this, there's practically nothing to add to it. How you can oppose such solutions! I don't understand. I really don't get it. Has it really turned out for everyone; perhaps for privileges?Oh, my God! Maybe it's your privilege to be surrounded by privileges because I know what kind of gathering society you are, where you come from, where you've been working, what you've been doing, how well you've lived your entire life at the expense of this poor country. Most of you, most of you, those who aren't, are exempt from this context. And you deny such poor pensioners, who have 500 or 600 euros in pensions, the right we are trying to settle here with the law. And a member of Desus says, "We restrict nothing, we restrict nothing." By God, do you even understand what you're saying?Oh, my God! Do you understand?Oh, my God! And now everyone's gone out, look. Dear Sir, I can see that thank God, we still have people who listen, at least that, I appreciate that very much. [[…]] But I also want us to learn something, learn something, and start thinking a little differently. Not socialistly, don't think that he can survive this country just by hanging you on a state manger and constantly pumping, borrowing money, billions per billion, and living like little gods. These people have to pay for all this. It'll be over one day, the state mangers will be over one day. And all those who have now been glued to them, I hope that you will begin to think in the context that I am talking about, that conditions must be created for the country to function; that entrepreneurs, craftsmen can create, that budgets will be paid, that we will not have a billion or a billion and a half per year in the budget. And how long will it take to tell these socialists that nothing happens to God in the way that you're trying to present it? We need to create, we need to work. And we are obliged to create the conditions for people to function, including espei, employees and so on. What I read in the end is the conclusion that if each of you who discussed it today read it, I think a little bit of a wheel would turn in his head and start thinking in the right direction. In the direction of our citizens and citizens, in the direction of those who stand up to this country, who also stand up to those privileged, thieves, thieves, thieves who pick up everything the country has borrowed. They steal everything and nothing happens. I think that there must be a beginning, at least the beginning or the beginning of a different thinking and approach if we are to drive this country on another path. And we want to, we have to take it the other way, if you ask people, most citizens and citizens, I'm going to tell you that what the current coalition and government are doing is absurd. Such a bad thing to Slovenian citizens and citizens has never been as good as it is now, never. And nothing happens. There are connections there, even the Modern Center Party, I must specifically exempt you. Tsunami personnel, everywhere you go, you change everything just to get people there so you can have a circle completed in advance. This is your primary and key task, you've put people in all the key positions, which are some of those that have stains on them. And those who put them, this policy from the background that it sets, it has something to hold them for. Then they're good, they're obedient and they're not like Marijan Pojbič, who has nothing to hold me for. And thank God I never sold myself, not to any uncle or anyone, for no cent. The sad truth of this society today is that we have come so far in our society. This is a truly sad truth. I hope that there will be a change. And these tubes that run into individual lobbies, these left-wing stories, have to be cut once. Bring a motorcycle to cut these pipes, you have no other solution, or it will never be different in this society. And all the good solutions that we are proposing — either New Slovenia or us or any opposition party — are rejected with such ease. You don't care because you've never felt in your life what it's like to be on the market and money on the market to serve. Perhaps you, sir, have said that those who are are are exempt; but most are not. Because I know where most come from and how the little gods lived at the expense of those poor poor people, espouses and those who break out from month to month, and those poor pensioners who have 400, 500 euros. Here are the gentlemen, the ten members of the House of Desus and instead of fighting for their rights and helping them improve their status, to make it easier for them to live, to function more easily in this society, all that we propose is good, and with the coalition they help to refuse. And that is untasteful, unacceptable, and I think that in the elections people will also tell Desus at the next election what belongs to him; and it is the last time that it comes to this. Desus and the Modern Center Party anyway, but there's nothing to add here. Because today, a gentleman from the Modern Centre Party was saying that some are more inclined – customers proposing smart solutions – to capital. Who's the most prone to capital? At the moment, the most inclined Party of the modern center is to capital. And you know exactly why I'm saying this. They have all the key positions in their hands and they hold everything, state-owned companies. Look at the problem of the Ljubljana Bank, which is happening now and so on, I will not open this question. Basically a disaster, things are going in the wrong direction. Please start thinking differently once in a while, or it will get worse in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u96	Mr President, I would really like you to warn Comrade Pojbič, that he is standing up here, looking at us against the right and talking about certain privileges, about the enjoyment of privileges, about how we have lived from the state's mangers until the moment we entered this national assembly, and I don't know what. Mr Pojbič, if you say that, then say it specifically with names. I can't agree to you saying you know who it is and who it isn't. No, we don't know. If you're talking about this, then get up now, this moment, and give specific names and surnames to who it is. Because I don't agree to this kind of discussion. Please, President, warn your colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u97	Mrs. Janja Servant, thank you for your warning, I will take note. Mr. Marijan Pojbich has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think I need to talk about these names that my colleague was talking about right now, because we all know very well each other that we know exactly who's stuck on a state nursery. Exactly. But next time I'm going to bring a list of who was from the Modern Centre Party to which job so far; but let's see who's stuck on a state nursery, I'm going to read it by name, because that's what Mrs Servant asked. I'll do it in the next session to do the service to those who are.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Mr Peter Pogačar, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I will now take some more time to explain this rather interesting discussion, which has raised quite a few good questions that will need to be discussed in the future. If you'll excuse me, I'd take two sets. First, on the issue of regressive claims. I think it is important that we explain to you, Members of Parliament, the proposer and the Slovenian public what order of sizes we are talking about. According to our estimates, in the midst of some data, we currently have about 23,000 independent entrepreneurs in Slovenia who employ at least one person because we are talking about them here. Of this, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is responsible for 95 complaints against employers, 91 against legal persons, four against independent entrepreneurs and at the same time 34 complaints have been filed. We need to know that there's a regression claim first, and then the Bureau will decide if it's a causal link and whether or not he's going to press charges. Otherwise, it doesn't even happen. There's something else I'd like to warn you. Today it has been said that we are proposing to limit the penalty to 15,000 euros. It's not a punishment, it's a damage to the Pension and Disability Insurance Department or, if you want otherwise, a pension fund. It's damage, not punishment. If she's not settled by this employer, this independent entrepreneur, someone else will. The other is those employers who pay contributions to pension and disability insurance and those who pay contributions to disability insurance. You mentioned a specific case. I don't know this particular case; I don't think anyone else does. As I understand it, a person is disabled today, he is disabled, the employer has to pay the damage that he caused to the institution; the rent, if I understand correctly. I don't care so much about this employer. I feel bad for this disabled man. For him, I am sad, and I am glad that we have a social state system, that we have a system of pension and disability insurance, which has provided this worker who has suffered an accident at work with adequate social security. However, it is not right to ensure this social security at the expense of everyone else and not at the expense of the person who caused the damage. Here you stated that it was a shared responsibility that the employer ensured everything. This is the judgment of the court in the context of a fair trial when it finds a causal link when it finds the guilt and contribution for the injured person to the injury. Practice here shows that the courts do this regularly. Such arrangements as you suggest, you have referred to the Council of the Pension Insurance Office as having adopted a decision to limit the liability of the natural persons of insured persons to 50 times the lowest pension base for natural persons. Your proposal is to limit this to a 40-fold pension base for employers. It is said that you propose lower responsibility for the employer than in the case of a natural person. Now maybe I'd like to go on a double status issue. Once again, the right to dual status was abolished by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, adopted in 1999. Only an exception was maintained for those who at the time had an open status as a self-employed entrepreneur who were at least 63 years of age and who had at least one personal employee so that until the last pension law adopted in 2012 they could have had this status open. In 2012, however, a law was passed, which is precisely the episcopal – what was not an option before – allowed them to retire in part and have an open activity in part. With the last proposal last year, we went on. Not only half of it; all it takes to maintain its activity is to maintain its activity for a quarter of its working time for six hours; and for three quarters it can receive a pension. And it's not true that we force anyone to retire. On the contrary. It has been said that we force people to retire, that we do not allow that in addition to low pensions ; I agree here with the Member. [[...]] In fact, the pensions are low, they're actually low. And it is therefore right that all pensioners have the right to earn the same income under the same conditions, without affecting their pension. All pensioners, regardless of whether they were experiential, insured, public servants during their active careers, were in the private sector. When they are pensioners, they are pensioners and under the same conditions can perform temporary and occasional work of pensioners, all work under civil law contracts. What is the essential difference? The essential difference is that the work can be carried out temporarily so as not to be carried out full-time and on a permanent basis. That's an essential difference. The honourable Member Mrs Novak asked me: How many pensioners who have fulfilled the conditions of retirement? In the meantime, I've acquired information based on your question. Look, that's right. On the basis of the last pension reform in 2012, under the new law ZPIZ-2 has 90 % of pensioners retired under the new law in 2015, the condition of full retirement age – 40 years – is fully met, and I think that 39 years for women was still in transition; 90%. A general picture under all other laws — you asked how many of them are eligible for retirement — all have fulfilled conditions for retirement, just what. Those who are under the new law last year, 90% of them have fulfilled the conditions of a full retirement period because it was one of the key elements of pension reform. In general, in the group of pensioners, this information is very quickly taken up during the discussion, about 26% of pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia have a condition of full retirement. And I ask you now, and your proposal goes in the direction of allowing all pensioners double status, including those 74% who have not completed full retirement, that is in your proposal. That's why I'm saying things aren't easy. It takes a little longer to discuss it here. I agree with Mr Tonin when he said he simply did not hold, if someone retired, that young people would get to work. Of course it doesn't, I agree here. The amount of work is never fixed, the work has to be done. The automatic retirement of someone doesn't mean the younger ones get to work. We fully agree here. But I might wish that I didn't tire you out for too long because I could really talk about this for a long time when looking for solutions in the pension system, there are solutions between different stakeholders. The minimum level of social consensus is always sought. In the public, it always reflects only – negotiating with trade unions, whether it will be 60, 61 years old; which is one of the important elements, but it is full of interest groups. Always the pension system, in particular the last pension reform, actually reflects the consent of all the social partners, the consent of all the parliamentary groups of the current Parliament, some minimum degree of consensus between the various stakeholders. Interfering to this balance of this system at the expense of just one stakeholder group, which requires something at the expense of others, is very dangerous. Finally, perhaps only this, a proposal for a debate in the White Paper, which is presented, I agree, must be defined on this issue, but we will also have to answer what is the right to an old-age pension under our legislation. Is this a 40-year pension; is this a social security right that occurs when the law assumes that an insured person at a certain age is no longer able to carry out his or her work full-time? These are the debates that we need to open; and this includes international comparisons of what kind of pension system we want to make. Above all, it must be our common goal to treat all insured persons and all pensioners equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you, Secretary of State Peter Pogacar. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for the Magi Act. Matthew Tonin and the government representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Craftsmen, micro-enterprises, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the Slovenian and European economies, do we agree? We agree. Is that capital? There's no capital. We Christian Democrats say that the largest capital is human, so the headline of our programme says – a socio-market model of the economy. I'm going to repeat it a hundred times because some people just don't remember it, and it would be good to. I continue, Bled 2015, last year, Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs present to Prime Minister Mir Cerar ten demands for improving the business environment. Mr Branko Meh, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, highlighted the problem of regressive claims for employers' responsibility, as the legal opinion of the Faculty of Law of Ljubljana shows that the regulation is constitutionally controversial. Faculty of Law, University of Ljubljana says that regulation is constitutionally controversial; respectable government, coalition and all lawyers in it. And this legal opinion was then also sent to the cabinet of the President of the Government. Prime Minister Cerar then told craftsmen, quote, "that they are looking for a solution from the crisis and also how to keep society on track." And the Prime Minister also says that we need to change our minds, he says he lacks more common sense in society. And it goes on, "You take the first step, be determined, show what is possible; and not what is not possible; be an example." So is Prime Minister Cerar. And I'm on his side, we're looking for solutions because we've got a mission, a tip from the Prime Minister and this coalition. We in Novi Slovenija respect this. That is why you now have seven of our laws in the parliamentary procedure. And I ask the government how it will respond to the 10 demands of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship 2016, they are now published. I will repeat this question, I will repeat it for a very long time, and I will say, when we are in power, then we will resolve these issues that we are dealing with in this law today. And this will be one of our first actions. In all my responsibility to the Slovenian public, we will do this. Because our people want to work, justice, and pension must be included when all the conditions are met. Dear colleague Saša Tabakovic, I would like to report this to you – he has given me a bar debate. And I remembered the debate two days ago when we were talking and explaining to me the modern center's parties what a bike is, a bike with an auxiliary engine and so on. It is necessary to separate what is the debate on innkeepers as business operators and what is the debate on innkeepers. If the electorate were to evaluate my debate as innkeeper, I wouldn't be here for nine years, I guess, at least that's how I explain it. Yes, I, too, worry that in Kobil, where two business entities, two innkeepers, have closed up because of coalition bad solutions, I am deeply concerned that the next step will be the closure of the primary school. Because there is one congregation, one village, one school environment. Why? Since there are fewer students there every year, it's embarrassing to tell me how many are there today. They are 38 and are worthy of taxpayers and our future citizens, who may eventually take over the leadership of this country. It is true, however, that Comrade Tabaković does not see the periphery from the Ljubljana heights, to the edge. You can't see people on the edge from the Ljubljana heights. And here is the problem and I recommend the practice of New Slovenia, every month a visit by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre and other coalition parties through Slovenia. Every month a micro region, you will learn a lot and you will work better for this Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u103	Mr Peter Pogacar, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thanks again for saying that. What's to add? Perhaps only with regard to the ten requirements of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, which have been publicly presented and will also be dealt with by colleagues from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the Forum of Crafts and Entrepreneurship, which I will also attend. Among these ten requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the first to mention the regulation of the issue of resertial claims. Of the 23,000 independent entrepreneurs who employ people, nine lawsuits of the Regret Insurance Office are a key issue of trade and entrepreneurship. If this is a basic requirement for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then I do not think that independent entrepreneurship is going so badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you, too. And as the final debater, the representative of the Magi proposer has the floor. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u106	I wish we'd just listen to each other sometimes and understand each other better. Many things in this house would be completely different if we had this sense of obedience and were to try to get into another and work things out together. Even with regard to the largest government party, at least before the elections, she had a huge promise of how to implement different parliamentary standards, and I think she understood, understood very quickly, and also met with classical old parliamentary standards, that opposition proposals were not widely accepted. Look at the problems already encountered in very simple matters, such as a helmet and a bicycle with a motor, or in more complicated matters. Someone wrote to me on Facebook, if you can't agree on a helmet in this House; how you're going to do other more important things, he's probably right. I will therefore try once again to make very clear what our proposal does not bring and what it really brings. The bill before you in general, the first reading, can still be corrected and amended in the second reading, solves two matters. One is a regression claim and the other is a double pensioner status. In the case of so-called regression claims, I would like to make it very clear that we are not lowering safety standards. As a result of this law, the country's security standards will not be reduced. This law also does not endanger the pension or treatment of any worker. Any worker who is insured will receive appropriate treatment and, if necessary, also disability pension due to serious injury. This law merely raises the question of who will pay for this treatment or who will pay this disability pension. And what does this marriage bring? In the event that it is the intentional work of employers, the poor establishment of a standard of safety in its entirety, it does not matter what the burden is, the employer takes over, and you can call it punishment. Otherwise, the Secretary of State disagrees, and I will use a more precise term, and I will say – the costs of treatment or disability pension. If it's a plot, there's no limit. However, if it is an accident that was not intentionally caused, but it was a set of circumstances that led to this, because there may have been insufficient enforcement of safety standards for the worker to be injured, in which case we assume that the employer responsible should pay 15,000 euros in fines or costs, however you wish. Of course, human life is priceless to us. Nevertheless, this society is in some ways in solidarity. And here we are just wondering where this concept of solidarity is to ask ourselves where that limit is, to which employer we charge the cost of a disability pension or treatment so that we don't sink this company. We must not forget that these companies have also been paying into pension and health bills for many years. If they continue to work, they will also pay for it in the future; and there is a need to balance it somewhere. I wouldn't want to be a demagog like Ambassador Skoberne. You know, we don't even have a death sentence in criminal law, and for some crimes, we'd probably need it. In certain cases, this company sets certain limits. The comparison may be inappropriate, but I would just like to emphasise that it makes sense in some parts to protect the future functioning of the company as well. And also about double status. Our desire is very simple for all pensioners who qualify for a retirement pension to receive this pension. And if they want to work on it, they pay full contributions as if they were employed in the case of espionage. I think that these are not excessive demands and that at least at first reading these laws could see the light of the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black in First Defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proposal for Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! In April 2014, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, which introduced, inter alia, a system of valuations for the implementation of personal supplemental work. In practice, this means that a person performing personal complementary work has to notify and obtain a value. The price of the valuation is €9, of which €7 is earmarked for pension and disability insurance, €2 for occupational injury insurance and sickness insurance. In individual cases, the contractor must pay the value. This is when the contractor does a certain job for him, such as child protection, household assistance, training and the like. It must be paid by each contracting authority individually and for each month separately, which may mean more valuations per month for the contractor, depending on the number of subscribers. In cases where the contractor manufactures and sells domestic and art products, manual works, collects forest fruits or herbs, grinds cereals and so on, the contractor must pay the valuation. As a rule, this means one value per month. This system is supposed to work legally, and this would enable the operator to enjoy basic social security. One valuation is expected to bring one day of retirement to the contractor. This applies to those who are in the period of their employment; this does not mean an additional retirement period for pensioners. The system for them is therefore not encouraging at all. What were the predictions of Minister Anje Kopač Dark when the system of valuations was introduced? She predicted that the work would be reduced to black. Is it true? Let's look at the data. The Minister announced that the number of registrations for personal supplemental work would double, which would amount to about 18,000 registered operators of personal supplemental work. According to the Ipes website, on day 18. 5. 2016 on the list of individuals carrying out personal supplementary work, only 6 000 84 individuals, i.e. only a third of what the Minister announced. It is more obvious that the introduction of valuations did not encourage individuals to register their personal complementary work; rather, it did not encourage individuals to register their own complementary work. The Ministry has promised that an additional EUR 2 million would flow into pension and health care if 18,000 workers were registered. What's the reality? In 2015, only EUR 158 000 of the cash register, of which about 123 000 and about 35 000 for health insurance, went into circulation. According to the Ministry of Labour, the cost of introducing the valuation system was EUR 200 000 by the end of 2015. Of course, current costs, administrative costs, labour costs per administrative unit, the APIS, the Financial Administration and so on must also be included. And what we can see from this – that the introduction and operation of the system of valuations consumes significantly more than it returns to the pension and health allowance through contributions. The system of valuations is an exceptional opportunity to cover up work in black, as it establishes a framework that can actually be misused to increase the grey economy and work in black. The actual work and actual payment are not important under the existing system. All we can say is that the attempt to introduce valuations was a very poor attempt to fill the budget hole. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we propose to abolish them. The main solutions we are proposing are as follows. First, to delete the articles relating to the legal basis of the system of valuations and to replace them by the arrangements in force before that; only a restriction on the income of the supplementary work shall be maintained. Secondly, we propose that persons performing personal supplementary work be afforded a voluntary choice in terms of pension and health insurance; this means that a person carrying out personal supplementary work could be insured for pension and disability insurance of the amount to which he or she will choose, but at least at the rate of seven euros per month. There would also be voluntary insurance for occupational injuries and diseases in the amount of the health insurance premium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u110	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Government does not support the proposal for a law on prevention of work and employment in black, which has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members in the legislative process. The bill is based on flat-rate assessments of the shortcomings of the system so far; the proposed alternative solutions when the current system is abolished do not follow the objectives and principles introduced by the government with the already in force Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. The current Law on the Prevention of Work and Black Employment has introduced, inter alia, in the area of personal complementary work, the values the provisions of which are deleted by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party by means of its proposal for a law. The value is a document on which personal supplementary work can be carried out and at the same time provides a certificate of payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance. The system of valuations is regulated by similar arrangements as introduced by some other Member States of the European Union — Belgium, Croatia, Italy, France; and has also produced positive effects in these countries. But the truth is, not in the first six months. The purpose of the renovation of the personal supplemental work compared to the previous arrangement was to make this form of work more useful, to facilitate the control of the performance of the personal supplemental work, to allow better control over the avoidance of non-payment of contributions taxes. In particular, let us not forget – by paying contributions for pension insurance to persons performing personal supplementary work, to ensure at least minimum rights from the pension system. Sometimes I think the proposer of this law overlooks it. Let me point out some positive effects of the existing law. On the day of 10. 5. In 2016, 6 thousand 41 performers of personal supplemental work were reported on Ipes and interest was growing. Since the introduction of the system further in the Ministry, we continue to record the proposal with a proposal to expand the list of works that could be carried out as a personal complementary work. Looks like people are interested. According to the data obtained on the values paid so far, 24 000 61 values have been paid for 30 000 726 types of work, one value may refer to different types of work. By renovating the system of personal work, we wanted to encourage the Ministry: to carry out activities or work in legal forms instead of working in black, I think this is our common interest; to ensure greater social security for providers of personal work supplemental work and to reduce distortions of unfair competition on the market. We believe that the system already in place has a positive impact on the economy and individuals. The proposal by the proposer is based on a flat-rate assessment of the shortcomings of the system so far; it is certainly premature for an assessment within one year of implementation; the proposed solutions of the proposer do not follow the objectives and principles of the bill itself; in particular, the solutions proposed by the proposer as an alternative are non-systemic, in many ways incomprehensible and also unfulfilled in practice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore opposes the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u112	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, good day again! Black work is one of the most common forms of grey economy. The latter is also widespread in Slovenia, especially due to such and other errors in the system, it is most common in agriculture, forestry, service activities, and especially where we are facing a greater volume of cash transactions. The latest amendment to the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment has put in place a package of laws to combat the grey economy. Among other things, the amendment then regulated personal supplementary work on the basis of a valuation. As such, the valuation allows greater transparency and control over these types of work; at the same time, the individual who performs the work shall also have rights on the basis of the principle of each work. In this way, greater transparency in the performance of work is regulated and allows all stakeholders to use personal complementary work in a simple and legal manner, which is also fair. In particular, some work still needs to be done at the point of simplicity. In our view, however, recent amendments to the legislation have gone in the right direction: extending competent authorities, higher fines, a new regime of personal supplemental work, which, at the time of its introduction as such, also provided for a regulation of an online application for which the MJU was then in charge. This task remains unfulfilled and will need to be carried out as soon as possible in order to ensure the effectiveness and appropriateness of the evaluation system. The application has the task of simplifying the system. At the same time, it must be recognized and stressed that temporary work and occasional work must be distinguished and adequately separated from other forms of work regulated by other laws, since it is an alternative that the law – including the one we have on the table – offers to avoid work on the black. It is a work performed by natural persons for natural persons. Such a way is in some way the legalisation of this work, which has often been accompanied by an excuse that the procedures for employment and regulation are usually too complex. At the same time, the regulation simplifies procedures and follows the principle Every work counts. The tolerant attitude towards the grey economy is certainly worrying. The knowledge that even those who do not pay taxes and contributions and other charges and benefit only, under quotations, the services of the country that we all pay fairly should be encouraged by all, including those who serve it, to resist and prevent the grey economy; not encouraged. It is therefore in some ways unusual that the Law on Prevention of Work and Employment blackens one of the options for combating the grey economy or one of the possibilities for legal and fair work. The Social Democrats in this title of the proposal for a new law will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will move the position of the Group of Ambassadors to the United Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you very much. The proposal, as we have heard, refers to the performance of personal complementary work. Most of this work is done as household aid, but the real social problem in personal complementary work is not recording, but the fact that some are forced to do it; and under any circumstances. We do not have official information on this, but we can conclude on the basis of life experience. Contractors of such services are generally households with above-average incomes, domestic work is carried out mostly by women, in particular unemployed workers, low-wage workers and low-income pensioners. They do this job for bad pay, mostly in black. At the same time, they are increasingly competitive with various cleaning services, which often act as illegal labour agencies. Therefore, the first condition is that personal complementary work will also be dignified, i.e. properly paid and respected, regulation of the social situation of women on the side of society. Poverty is a complex problem, but there are simple solutions for it. All these solutions are under the authority of the Government and also the National Assembly. Everything is feasible here and now if the coalition decides to represent the interests of socially disadvantaged people. There are three measures in the grave. The situation of the long-term unemployed and low-income pensioners will not improve any economic growth, but rather financial social benefits. It is the coalition's responsibility to raise these benefits to at least the minimum cost of living. As is known, these costs were last calculated in 2009 and amounted to EUR 385 for a single adult. It is less known that Dr Anja Kopač Dark, Minister of Labour, signed a social agreement on behalf of the Government last year. It also committed itself to recalculating the minimum cost of living this year and to align the amount of social assistance with that calculation. As far as we know, the Ministry of Computing is not planning to perform. Nevertheless, it is clear that the minimum income should be raised to at least EUR 385 per month. It is also known that up to €90 million a year is needed to do so, which is about as much as would bring about a rise in the rate of corporate tax on profits prepared by the Ministry of Finance. This is, of course, realistic, provided that the government and the coalition will devote these 90 million to the socially disadvantaged. Currently, the Finance Minister proposes spending this 90 million on tax relief for about 10% of employees with the highest wages. However, the situation of the socially disadvantaged could be significantly improved immediately and without further State indebtedness. In black work, even in personal complementary work, people are often forced to work, although they are socially at risk but do not receive social assistance. They are often pensioners, in particular pensioners, who renounce social assistance or the protection allowance due to the Pahor-Svetlik reforms of 2010 and 2011. As we know, poverty is the most common among women over 65 years of age, especially in the countryside. In 2010, Pahor’s government abolished state pensions of more than 15,000 people. The second blow followed in 2012 with the new Social Security Benefits Act. Since then, social assistance and a protective allowance must be paid back consistently. Real estate owners have therefore given up massively on social benefits, in particular on a protective allowance. In such circumstances, many are forced to do every job under any circumstances. The Pahor's government has therefore legalised social dumping. If we want personal complementary work to become dignified, as they like to say at the competent ministry, the reform of Pahor must simply be abolished. Let me remind you that in the coalition agreement, the government has stated that the beneficiaries of a lower-value property security allowance will be burdened by the ban on the disposal of property. Within almost two years of her arrival in power, she has not done so yet. The third measure that would be necessary to improve the situation of socially disadvantaged people in general and the regulation of personal complementary work in particular is respect for labour law. Let us say that we will improve the situation of persons, especially women, who perform complementary work. In this way, offers of additional work will be less and workers will not be forced to work under any conditions; however, we will not solve the problem until we prevent unfair competition from various cleaning and similar services. And many, even in the public sector, we can see what is called the segmentation of the labour market. During the day they clean workers who are sometimes dressed in uniforms and who are employed in a particular organization, another team of young girls who are not in uniform comes in this afternoon and work with the same means, probably via some sort of cleaning service. Some things may be better arranged, but in general, cleaning services are de facto work intervention agencies, although they do not have permission to do so. It is similar with different types of complementary work, such as seasonal work. Until we effectively prevent illegal exploitation, the payment for such work will be shamefully low. One of the key solutions is the regulation of the competence of the work inspection, which we have proposed in the United Left; of course, the coalition has slightly refused. For the end, we need to define ourselves until concrete solutions. In detail, there is no point in starting because, if I quote the opinion of the Government, "solutions are neither systematic nor comprehensible nor enforceable". If we were already going to replace the values, it would have to be done in another way. So the key question is whether an end would make sense at all. The analysis I'm taking from the government's opinion shows no. The number of persons active in the personal supplementary work increased by at least twice after the new system was put in place. So the valuations covered a certain segment of people who had previously worked in black. During the first year, the health and pension bills received around €160,000 at the expense of the valuations. The cost of introducing the new system was around €200,000. It should be borne in mind, however, that these were one-off costs to be paid only on the medium term. Any major change in the system should change the information system and adapt the procedures for which additional financial resources should be provided. The evaluation system may not be the best possible system, but it obviously works now, so without very good reasons and concrete alternatives it is not meaningful to change it. When assessing the effectiveness of the evaluation system, we must also take into account that the main purpose of the valuations is not to collect social contributions, but to legalise complementary work. This system does not generate large revenues because traffic is also relatively small. The benefits of legalisation must be borne in particular by those who carry out this activity. On the one hand, because unfair competition is to be reduced; on the other hand, because these incomes are at least recognised by the pension. In view of the last decision of the Constitutional Court, it is clear that voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance does not compensate for automatic inclusion on the basis of the valuations. Since the law is therefore, in the opinion of those who are supposed to enforce it, incomprehensible and non-executive and because there are no valid reasons why the system is being shut down, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u116	Your Honor! At the time of the introduction of the values for personal complementary work, we were detained by Christian Democrats. We have warned that the values of the new bureaucratic barriers will only add to the burden on those who benefit from the services of the complementary work and also on those who carry it out. We have said that it is right to establish order in this area; the question is whether this can be achieved through new papers. It is also a question of whether personal complementary work after the payment of health and social insurance contributions will be paid at all and remains interesting as one of the alternatives. At that time, Members of New Slovenia did not support the introduction of the values. Well, we already have answers to our concerns at the time. When reading the introductions of valuations, it is mildly poor, according to the household, they would say it is in the minus or red numbers. The costs of introducing and issuing securities are much higher than those for cash social security and the budget. The concept wasn't the happiest. Colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party propose to abolish the values as a basis for carrying out the personal complementary work and to reintroduce the arrangements before their regulation. At the same time, they also propose that persons performing personal supplementary work be afforded voluntary pension and disability insurance for the same scope of rights as in the valuation system. Since we have not changed our position from a good two years ago and because we are in favour of simple procedures and low taxes, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The new Law on Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment, which we are considering today, is primarily referring to the debate on the grey economy and the principle Every work counts. In the case of undeclared work and also in the case of undeclared transport we come to a common point, this is personal complementary work and valuation. As from 1 January 2015, the value has become a condition for the legal performance of the work and its value is fixed at a flat-rate amount of nine euro. Complementing the various forms of work and introducing the contribution rates also entered into the social security and compulsory insurance system by operators of personal supplementary work. With the application of the principle, it is also important to point out, in addition to providing pension and disability insurance, health insurance and occupational disability insurance, that in practice the value of the pensioner also brings pensionable age. The bill, however, removes the current system of valuations and proposes the establishment of a specific method of voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension and disability insurance. Persons performing personal supplementary work could, in accordance with the amendment under consideration, be secured for the same extent as will be provided under the current valuation-based regime. However, it proposes different bases and different recognition of rights, as provided for in the general pension law and the law governing prevention and employment in black. The applicant also provides for a means of inclusion in individual insurance, such as pension and disability insurance, special cases insurance and occupational health insurance and occupational injury. In doing so, we are missing the definition of the scope of rights in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Article 3 of the current Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance provides, for example, that compulsory pension rights, disability rights, the right to an annual allowance and the right to an allowance for assistance and service are guaranteed by compulsory insurance. However, the proposed option of selecting inclusion in special cases insurance may prove less favourable to the operator of the personal supplemental work, since insurance for special cases of insurance is not considered to be during the insurance or pension period. A proposal for a law would carry out the notification of a personal supplemental work on administrative units, which would also lead the list of performers of personal supplemental work; and not more on the iPad than so far. In doing so, we must point out that the latter solution would generate additional costs at least by establishing a new information system in administrative units. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that one year after the introduction of the values, the positive effects of the existing system can be discussed. Since the introduction of the system of valuations by May this year, around 3 000 new notified providers of personal supplemental work and a good 24 000 issued valuations have been issued. The total amount of payments in 2015 was around EUR 158 000 on the basis of the valuations. The results so far are considered good, but only in the next few years will we be able to give a realistic or long-term assessment of the success of the evaluation system. As stated in the Group of the Parties to the modern centre of the bill, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! In practice, the desire to prevent black work has given birth to an unfair and bureaucratic system of evaluators, which does not encourage people to work further, but only restricts them further. In addition, the system of valuations in practice contains a lot of nonsense. That is why we are proposing the law as proposed, because we are pursuing the following objectives and principles to ensure smaller bureaucracy, less bureaucracy and all the other minorities in the performance of personal complementary work. We want to eliminate solutions that represent a disproportionately high cost in terms of impact for public funds. We would like to allow operators of personal supplementary work to be voluntarily insured for the time they choose. We want to stimulate the inspection bodies to check the actual work, not see – the indicators. Above all, we want to maintain the principle Every work counts. The draft law deletes the articles which form the legal basis for the 2013 valuation system from the current law. Such an arrangement is replaced by an arrangement that was in force before that, for today we had the feeling that there had been some sort of personal supplementation work that no one had ever noticed. The only exception, in our proposal for a law, is that the restriction on the income of private supplementary work is maintained in the current regulation, which means that the half-year income from this work does not exceed three average net monthly wages from the previous year. The draft law allows persons who carry out personal supplementary work to be able, by their choice, to obtain voluntary pension and disability insurance for the same scope of rights as has been the case since the regulation of personal supplementary work through valuations. Your Honor, why the bill? The law on prevention of work and employment in black is from 1. 1. 2105 In order to carry out the personal supplemental work, he introduced the values that are now purchased before the work is done for nine euros a month. This amount covers minimum pension and health insurance, and the law has been presented as a top-notch solution to prevent black work. Let us remember all media releases that day, and also the current minister, when she spoke about how the system of valuations would not only reduce, but end the work in black; and how, when people work, they would fill all the countries in the treasury. After almost a year and a half from the introduction of the valuations, it appears that this is a complete fiscal measure that has had a huge impact on practice. In 2015, a total of EUR 160,000 was reported in the system of personal supplemental work for a total of 5 000 people, issued over 17,000 valuations, which resulted in a total of EUR 160,000 in revenue to the ZZZ and ZZZ. After one year of use of the valuations, data on the costs of the system appeared in the public: the cost of issuance and control for 2015 – €350,000, which takes into account the cost of work – €220,000, the cost of the Appes administration of €24,000, the cost of the Administration of the Public Administration of €24,000 and the cost of processing the reports submitted to Furs, after the majority of €81,000; without the fixed costs necessary for the establishment of the valuation system. In short, the €160,000 effect of the first year was €350,000. With all the bragging about the current and the current Minister, how the system of valuations will be a super system, we are talking about the amount of €160,000 that those who have decided to do this work put in the pension and health treasury through the valuations. Is 160,000 euros, respected and respected, an achievement?Oh, my God! On the other hand, people are scared. The fast financial model shows that the valuation system is a significantly higher annual cost than revenue. According to the household, the system of valuations is financial and bureaucratic nonsense. What does this system look like in practice? The values can be ordered personally, on the administrative unit and via the eGovernment web portal. Let's imagine an elder who can't wait to go to the administrative unit, or he can't wait to register through the eGovernment. They're waiting for things like this every day. In addition to the cost of purchasing the valuation, a report on the income generated by the financial management must also be submitted to the Financial Administration monthly and six-yearly. The semi-annual report should also be sent to the Financial Administration in the absence of any revenue during this period. In short, reports are that they're reports and that someone's doing something because this person has to report that they didn't do anything. Yes, it is indeed a de-de-irocracy within the meaning of this government, and people are still looking forward to such solutions as to go from Pontius to Pilate even if they do nothing. Such solutions discourage people from working and do not pursue the goal Every job counts. The value does not represent any added value, but merely a burden on public funds and debirocratisation. In addition, this system, which has been introduced, i.e. the valuations, is an exceptional opportunity to cover up work in practice, as a framework is being set up which can be used to actually raise the level of the grey economy. The price of the valuation is fixed, €9 per month, and does not depend on the amount of actual pay. What does that mean in practice? It is very possible to conceal actual work and payment across the border laid down by law, since only a valuation issued during the current month of the work is sufficient for the legal coverage of this work. By the old system, that's before 1. 1. In 2015 and prior to the entry into force of the valuations, approximately 9 000 people were serving their personal supplemental work. The Minister expected the number to double with the introduction of the values; the list of individuals publicly available on the Apes indicated on Day 7. 1. 2016 5 000 444 people. Noting that one person may also have several parts and values listed, which are forgotten. Thus, the number did not double in one year in contrast with the pioneer bluffs, but almost halved. Allow me to conclude with regard to the government's opinion. The typical opinion of this government; our decision is the only right and the only salvation, and your solution is non-systematic and impossible. Your Honor, there was a black job before 1. 1. 2015, even the persecution of this work existed before 1. 1. 2015; therefore, the system of valuations is a non-systemic solution, non-life and in practice offers what the law does not follow by the government. The government says that every job counts, and in reality people are forced into a grey economy. The government does not in any way allow for any reflection on the change in the system introduced by the previous government, even though it costs more than revenue. In short, whatever it takes, our decision is the right one. And this law, i.e. the system of valuations, did not address the field of prevention of work in black, but in practice it further increased it, which is evident by the data from the Ipes – instead of 9,000 good 5,000 people who decided to do this work. Of course, this system of valuations has brought unnecessary bureaucracy and, above all, fear, fear among older people who wanted to work, why they should work, and wait for someone to insinuate them. The same measure as a tax box is not at all important financial or any other measure, it is important that we frighten people. The system of valuations has also brought many problems and unnecessary people here and there, for 150 000 euros a year, and on the other hand once more costs. That's funny. So it's a similar measure to a tax box. We also wanted to end the tax registers, we also wanted to end the system of valuations, we will continue to want to end the system of carriers; the stupid, senseless measures that are wrong and, most importantly, directed at people. But this is the same as the current government – a wrong policy that is directed against people. Therefore, instead of sound-headed measures, you invent inadvertent measures, which the coalition sells as systemic. Systems such as valuations, carriers, tax receipts show that Butal's thinking is at its fullest. Wrong policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, who are not many of you in the Chamber, the representative of the Ministry of Labour! In short, Desus' position on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment – we will not support it. The grey economy means unfair competition and interference with the economy, and consequently also with the social state. Its scope is difficult to determine. According to the available data of some international analyses, Slovenia is expected to be classified by around 25% of GDP shares in the top third of countries. According to some other analyses and data, the assessment of the grey economy is estimated at around 10% of the gross domestic product. This is an inevitable fact, not only for Slovenia, but for all the countries of the European Union and beyond, which does not facilitate the presence of the grey economy in our country and, I fear, even in some way ingrained. As it is said, the emergence of a grey economy and the related work in black as a result of this is an economic problem, a deviant economic problem that is even more pronounced in times of economic crisis. Of course, it is also a broader, burning social problem, since we tolerate and encourage it many times, knowing that this is a negative phenomenon. Logically, I would say that some service, some product at the final stage for the consumer is cheaper, cheaper, and the payer by hand means higher net income, higher net value, the person knows more in his pocket. The fact is that this deviation can be reduced or eradicated, but this can only be achieved by changing the culture, changing the behaviour of individuals; however, what the State can contribute to this is appropriate and appropriate measures to address the causes and promote positive behaviour. The movement in the head, the leap in thought, which we also talked about at the point of inspection. In the fight against the grey economy, we have taken quite a few measures in recent years, including the introduction of the so-called so-called Vacheric System of Personal Supplementary Work Management. The aim of the establishment of the system of valuations was to promote a legitimate, I stress the legitimate, performance and comprehensive approach to tax and contribution unification of all forms of work introduced in principle Every work counts. Those who perform personal complementary work pay social security contributions, which brings certain rights to individuals. So it brings people rights, which is essential, which is of priority, at least for us in Desus; and in the final stage, some resources, but not so little, are also flowing into both the treasury and the state budget. Members and members of the proposer wish to abolish the values and replace the obligation to include in insurance by a voluntary decision to pay contributions to pension and health insurance. It's nothing. This is contrary to the principle Every work counts, and according to our assessment in its own way means, in addition to the greater comparability of different forms of work, also some contribution, a contribution to the fight against the grey economy. By purchasing these opposing values, i.e. it is not only a paid contribution to pension insurance, to injuries at work, occupational diseases and so on; it also serves to monitor the performance of such work and to control the income from work. Of course, this is not the only way to confront the grey economy. The abolition of valuations means the inability to control this, which also reduces the effective fight against the grey economy. Proposers of the law in question proposing the abolition of the valuations do not consider that the effects of the new system of performance of the personal supplemental work are not visible or that the public cash flows are lower than expected and that the costs of the implementation and functioning of the valuation system are significantly higher than those of the pension and health budget. In Desus, of course, we do not agree with this; we are confident of the opposite. The number of registered operators has doubled in this section in the case of a chick year of implementation of the law, according to the previous regulation. Over 17,000 valuations were issued, which filled the pension fund with an additional €160,000 and a health allowance of €35,000. The most important thing is that, according to the new system, operators have covered social security, the right of people, which was not before the current regime. Costs – we know that for every thing, there is a need to invest some start-up funds in each project. The main costs to which the bill's proponents are declared to be too high in terms of impact are only one-off. We believe that costs will be significantly lower from now on, and some of them will certainly be in the future, as the system needs to be maintained and upgraded. The values have worked relatively well so far, which does not mean that there is no need for improvement in the area of personal complementary work in many ways, and every matter needs to be improved. With the last amendment of the law, we have already added some new activities to the list of works that can be carried out as a personal supplement. However, I do not want to put any particular emphasis on any work now, so that in this part of expanding the works in our parliamentary group we can see further the possibility of improvement. The effects of this one of the many measures in the fight against the grey economy – of course, with the leap of thought and the leap in our thinking – that we have developed in the past mandate, are visible and positive in spite of the short-term use, but we cannot yet fully assess and evaluate them and evaluate them. The real result of this measure will only be seen for a longer period of time, of course with adequate and ambitious supervision by the competent authorities, this is Fursa; and with the public's awareness that it does no good to work in black; perhaps for a short time, but not in the long term. Thus, neither the individuals who perform this work nor the users, users, society, country, Slovenia as a whole, because the loss of public funds due to the grey economy therefore means less rights for all; especially for those who are certain rights, certain financial support from the budget is most needed. Let me conclude, Members and Members of Desus, we stand firm in this position that the proposal for the proposed regulation is unacceptable and inadequate, and we will not support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. I must say, in a way, I was not surprised by the position of the Group of Members. While I regret that those who rely heavily on numbers are not present in the hall, I think that in this case the real numbers will say everything they should. Now we're talking about a short term. More than two years from now, in April 2014, this amendment was also legalised in this Chamber. It entered into force with 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The year 2015 has passed and we are already in 2016. I think that at this time we can really get good data and that more than clearly these data say that the system of valuations has not at all brought what it was meant to do. The Secretary of State has mentioned that there are flat rates here. The cost of the introduction was, at least according to the data I received from the Ministry of Labour, EUR 200 000. It was stated that individual software updates have not yet been taken into account here; or this is the information that is expected to be available by the end of 2015. Therefore, the costs of the introduction are already significantly higher than they actually ran into the budget in one year. At the same time, the fact that one such system is likely to cost something is completely ignored. There are running costs of maintaining software here, there are employees who have to manage it, we have employees in administrative units, we have them in Ipes, where they run these lists, we also have them on the Financial Administration. We can't ignore the cost of that. Of course it's worth it, too. On the Finance magazine, some calculations were made that were even worse for the Ministry in terms of the cost of introducing valuations, and they estimated the cost of introducing 300 000 and the current cost of issuing and controlling valuations to be as much as 350 000. Okay, these are some grades, and I don't even want to come out of this. However, if we look at the specific data that you yourself have given, they say that it is completely unjustifiable in view of what we actually get by doing so. What do certain minimum pension rights mean? Yes, yes, one value added to one pension day, but you've confused everything into this group, I've given the pensioners, the unemployed and those who are employed; that is, anyone who does a personal supplementary job. We know where the legal restrictions are, how much personal extra work a person can earn during the six months or throughout the year. That's clear and there's no question. But one value added — one day of retirement means absolutely nothing to the pensioner, so he's kind of solidarity with the others. Yes, it's intergenerational solidarity or how you answered my question. He's actually good for the one who's working. But let's say someone's dealing with some domestic trade, doing some handiwork, in which case he's bound to buy a fortuneteller himself, so he's giving him nine euros a month for a fortuneteller, and that gives him one day of retirement. It has an annual cost of EUR 108 and actually gets 12 days out of it. What kind of encouragement is that?Oh, my God! What do you think to encourage people to actually have something of this one day?Oh, my God! On the other hand, you have some of those who buy the value of the purchasers, which is the group where they buy the value for various protections, trainings, help with household and other tasks. Such an individual may have as many values as he has in one month of subscribers. And such an individual can earn 20 pension days a month. What's the proportion here now? You very much stress that every work counts; yes, I very much agree with this, every work should count, elsewhere, not just where it is pointed out on your part. Where's the proportionality here? On the one hand, someone can work 100 hours a month with one date, one day a pension, and on the other hand, someone works for about 20 hours a month and has 20 values. Where's the proportionality here? Do you really think that this system is a contribution and actually encourages people to do what they do legally? In fact, it does not matter how much someone does in this system; it is only important that this has one value. How is this being controlled on the ground, let me know. Someone buys a value, if an inspector comes, shows him that value; no matter how much he spends a month and how much he actually reports to the Financial Board. In a way, you're also promoting black work. If you just look at the numbers — when this system was introduced, about 9,000 people were registered in the system. And you'll say that the inactive didn't disappear from the system at the time. Then why did Minister Kopač Dark point out that this would double, and she herself mentioned the number 18 thousand if she probably knew by then how many of them were active. It's just a good excuse now that it's actually seen that this system doesn't work. You only have 6,000 in your system today. Much less than they were. Where's the other 3,000? Are they working in black? Or don't you wonder if this system has encouraged people to work in black. In addition, personal supplementary work may be carried out for those works on the list of works. You have mentioned that daily or weekly, monthly people invite you to add different works to this list. I wonder how many such works are actually left in the air that people can only do as a personal complement. Since he's not on the list, he can't register it, but it's a real job you can't put on. He can't afford to open it because he has too high a cost that is significantly greater than what he would have received; and personal complementary work is the only job that is appropriate. But after this system of yours, it just fell out of this system. I want to know how many of these people there are, where the 3,000 people are actually missing, and where all the others who used to be disloyal competitors were working on a black, gray economy, where the rest of them are now, which you were going to gain with this system. Mr Škoberne of SD mentioned that at the time it was said that there would be an application that has not yet been – two years have passed and there is still no application – which is supposed to debirocratise this system. Why isn't she here yet and how much more will this app cost? This means that this is still among the costs of introduction. This means that this amount will increase significantly. And I really want to know how it hasn't happened yet. Two years have passed since it was known that this system would be introduced. Are we really not able to do something in this country in some more normal, short time? In a way, we're even trying to tell ourselves that we have a tolerant attitude towards the grey economy. I ask you kindly, with systems like a valuation, a grey economy is being promoted. You have introduced tax receipts under the pretext that now the grey economy will decrease; but I have never received an answer to this question, how much the gray economy has decreased; because it has not. Because those who actually do dishonest work, you still don't get those with such guards. Obviously, something else will have to be done to actually plague the grey economy. I agree that this is a problem, and I actually condemn it. And as has been said, these are truly disloyal competitions for entrepreneurs and everyone else. It is unfair to all of us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But with these values, tax receipts, that's how you're not gonna get that. A colleague from the Modern Centre Party sees positive effects. I really want to know, colleagues from the Modern Center Party, what positive effects of this system do you see?Oh, my God! In my presentation, I expected you to list them; then I would ask you to list them below. We know that we have less personal complementary work and so far only a burden on all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because the costs of this are significantly higher than has so far come at the expense of these valuations. Subtlely bigger. Where are those positive effects; tell me, please, one. Even before that, the personal supplementary work had not been illegal, and it had to be notified to the administrative unit. And also the values should be notified in the administrative unit or via the eGovernment system, which unfortunately, as far as I know, is not used by many individuals. A colleague from Desus said that a valuer controls the income from work. Well, that's the problem, but you really can't control your income with a valedictorian. Buy one of the values, you don't know how many hours and how much he's earned. His honesty is to declare as much as he declares; but because of the system of valuations you cannot control revenue. Don't fool yourself. Please don't deceive me. You estimate that they've done relatively well. Okay, but I'm really interested in what. The data, the numbers show something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u126	Dear Vice President, thank you for saying so! I believe that the system of valuations is good, that it is also to some extent fair and that it is right that it stems from the thought that each work counts. Nor do I think it is wasteful on public finances, so I cannot support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, although I believe basically that the proposal to reduce red tape is always well-intentioned. I completely agree with that. The fact is that the cost of 200 000, mentioned by the applicant, was of a one-time nature and was not a cost that would cost the public service every year to enable the system of valuations to function at all. It is a system that was introduced one year ago, and it has shown in one year that around EUR 160 000 has been paid into it, which means that to date this figure is probably much larger and that in this sense it has also somehow passed this initial cost. In fact, the number will prove to be positive only in the future and in a longer period, but for the time being, this number, or what the applicant is referring to, is not so critical that we have already given up the system of valuations. It seems to me that this period is certainly too short for them to be so critical of him. I also think or so show data that the system is currently on the run and that there is no procedural error, that it should be amended or that the system of valuations should be abolished because of this point of view. From a principle point of view, I object to the idea that the system of valuations should be abolished because it does not seem right for me to leave insurance to the free will of individuals; this means that probably, for various reasons which I will mention in my debate, these individuals would no longer be insured. The current system, however, makes it possible for persons to notify their activity or complementary work. Above all, within its statutory tasks, Furs, which, in the case of irregularities identified – concerning the income and abuse of valuations which are problematic and have legitimate concerns, can also act. I cannot accept the fact that the system of valuations is an opportunity for black work, because the system of valuations has been introduced precisely to try in some way to limit the various illegal forms of work or to allow operators to work systematically in some legal form of work, which means that they are also provided with contributions, and which is very important to reduce distortions of competition in the market. This is in fact the essence of the evaluation system itself, because paying contributions and a proportionate burden on all forms of work certainly reduces the motive for workers or employers to choose a particular form of work exclusively through the prism of costs. That's the essence of the valuation system. However, if we did so, if we had left that decision to the person doing the extra work, then this fear could have been justified so that these people would not have been insured and then this would not have been counted during the retirement period. However, we must also replicate the views that have already been expressed today. The applicant says that they want life insurance to be life insurance if it has to be; at the same time, he has a major problem with how to keep these records. On the one hand, we have a problem of bureaucracy; on the other hand, we have a system or motive for a value. In this sense, I would say that the proposaler is still a little paradoxical. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out, because I think I just have to. On the one hand, I am surprised at the way in which today’s meeting – and I do not think only of this point – was the lecture of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia’s Parliamentary Group incredibly close; although I do not think that this is an exception. On the one hand, in their views, they speak or appear in the coalition that they do not hear and understand the opposition; at the same time, they explain how all those who disagree with them are somehow stupid because they support stupid laws. What is the intelligent equivalent of individuals or today present at this meeting of the National Assembly, I do not think that he is a member of the National Assembly – and not even in this or earlier term – who would have these powers, but also in a professional way, to be able to judge or evaluate the intellectual quota of Members. I will simply never be able to agree to such a disqualification, and I will not agree to it, and I will distance myself from it. But I wonder who really scares people with such discourse or demagogism. These are some things on the principle level; now even more substantive. The proposer shall only specify the method of inclusion in individual insurance, but shall not define the scope of the rights, which is very important. Article 3 of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act provides for compulsory insurance to guarantee pension rights, disability allowances, annual allowance, entitlement to an allowance and service. One value means one day of retirement. However, if we compare this arrangement with the solutions of the applicant who understands the possibility of insurance as insurance for special cases, then we can quickly find that this would be much worse for the worker himself because such work would not be counted as a pension. If there is no insurance age in this sense, there is also no right to a pension. This is not the way or the form of the work, for example, helps us to gain a retirement age; it is a matter of complementary work. It is not the essence of the system of valuations that we will all now work according to the system of valuations and have ten days of retirement with one value per year; that is not the point. You also need to know that some individuals thus gain an extra retirement age; and that is really the point that each work counts. This idea that each work is considered means that paying contributions in different forms of work is simply an obligation and must remain an obligation. If we stop this, the story that we had before the valuations, when different forms, just because of the cost aspect that the proposalr is talking about, has been competing with each other. And that was very bad. And with this system of valuations, it just wanted to go away. But if we now eliminate the system of valuations, we have a system like we had before, which unfortunately was not fair. As for the distorted system that we had before, it was that employers used this system for their own benefit, for their own expense; on the other hand, workers or individuals who decided to do some particular work had to do so, even though they knew that this was the worst for their retirement period, even the extra-deserved pension period. And that's why it's right that we have a system of valuations. I'm talking about thinking. We can talk about different things, whether the costs are justified – for now they show that they are – which I think is justified. But to abolish the system of valuations means simply attempting to abolish some mental code of our community, that we have decided that every work counts; and that in this sense we are more just. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, chairman. We too strongly advocate that each work counts. And really every job has to count, but personal complementary work did not matter — and also with the system of valuations — little special work that is not meant to be used by someone who is engaged in an activity; but it is the work of individuals, whether it is assistance, instruction, anything. But if every job counts, let's count in a way that also counts how much work someone does. And that's the problem. You put in the same basket someone who works one month with a single currency and can spend 100 hours on it; and one instructor who has ten hours in one day, ten different subscribers and in that one day gets ten values paid by that subscriber. Each work counts, yes, but some proportionality must be, how much someone does and to what extent that work then counts. That's what's at stake with this system. As far as the cost is concerned. Costs of introduction, I believe the Secretary of State knows exactly what they are already clear. We know that the costs of some cancellations of applications in those 200,000 have not been taken into account; and some of the applications that Mr SD has announced have obviously not been prepared yet, which means that the costs will be much higher. They're very big, given what we got. If we get a forecast of 2 million, then that would be clear. Then we probably wouldn't be discussing this here today. But we won not a hundred and sixty thousand in the whole year of introduction. And this is a year that's comparable. We didn't arrive last year at the same time with such a proposal because we really didn't have the data. We have waited for more than one year to have clear data on what has happened in one year of the introduction of this system; and now we have come up with this proposal. Not because there was no connection or that we would not support this principle Every work counts. It could be implemented elsewhere. I fully agree with that and it is perfectly correct. As far as voluntary insurance is concerned, from this very point of view, because it does not respect the status of the people. On the one hand, pensioners carry out personal supplementary work, which means nothing to them on an additional day of retirement; on the other hand, those who are unemployed are doing so, which actually means something to them. However, since there is a limit to how much they can do in six months, these are three net average monthly wages. In this context, he may remain, but perhaps he would like to spend a little more on pension insurance; and that is why we have said so voluntarily. If this system of ours may contain mistakes or any concerns, because today is the first time, let's talk about it; but I want you to figure out why we actually triggered this, where we see these problems. And, of course, he has that interest in probably making a little more pension payments. But someone who's busy and at home still has a knit basket and wants to do it legally, and he's not in the interest of one pension day a month, but he wouldn't have made that decision. From this point of view, we want this to be voluntary. But it's still a legal form of work. We don't want that to be illegal. Of course, it must be a legal form of work, as it is, because it must also be registered or notified, whatever we call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, we are faced with one very common fact, or over and over again, when we propose better solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party than were adopted in the left-wing government led by Borut Pahor. And when we propose such solutions, which are better than those and clearly established – we have clearly established the arguments and the reasons why we claim to do so, our colleague Susanna explained extremely and very qualitatively and argued why we have introduced such a law, by which we want to abolish the values – whatever we do, everything is rejected. That's amazing. Is it really us who are on this side, so low-intelligent, that we don't know anything; or all we're proposing is so bad that you with a high-intelligent quota find out that what we're doing is not what you think only you who are up there can do; and you want only what you're doing or what you're defending. Suzanne made it very clear why we decided to abolish the values. And I'll remind you of some things. At the meeting on 3 April 2014, this was the meeting of the National Assembly, Mr Levanič, who is now the right-hand man or one of the first people of the SD, said the following: the second key amendment to the proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black. So the other one's the key. Do you know what the key is?Oh, my God! In their opinion, when this law was proposed, the latter was a key issue in the prevention of black work. And he said: 'The second key amendment introduced by the draft law on prevention of work and employment in black is the introduction of so-called "values" for personal complementary work, which will be a condition for the legal performance of this type of work; at the same time, by introducing these values we also introduce the principle of Every work counts and we will recognise the right of persons who will perform such work from pension and disability insurance and health insurance. At the same time, the new system does not bring major administrative obstacles." The other way around. That's what Mr. Levanic said. And today we all find that it is far, far, far from that truth. With this law, we have increased the administration. We've increased bureaucracy. Zoomed in. And following that 23rd session on 3 April 2014, my then fellow Member Romana Tomc, on behalf of the parliamentary group, said: "Our position", is the true position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, "to this law that we are considering today, and in particular to the values that this law introduces, it is perfectly clear – the values are an unnecessary and unprofitable bureaucratic obstacle, which will not give any further effects such as the government or the ministry of promise." It's a famous item by Romane Tomc. And before what fact are we now? I'm asking you, what fact are we before? Does this sentence hold a hundred percent, as she said here? He's holding 100%. Of all these statements that we have here, from all of these numbers that we have here, that's absolutely true and true. Absolute fact and truth. I really have to ask again, as I have done many times, even when that government was; but the way, the view and the salvation. The problem in this country is also this government, which is now a successor and understands things about how to treat its citizens and citizens. Therefore, there is no big difference between these governments; they all owe the country extremely much; they have increased red tape in this country; they support those scoundrels who continue to steal; they do what suits them, because no one is brought before the time of justice. And the question arises to me whether this law has been written so that money can legally be drawn up for a narrow group of individuals who have benefited directly from this law. This question is very clear to me because we have already had one law in debate today, where the law is preparing for one act or for one matter solely in order to replace the director of one fund. This is a distasteful act, my dear colleagues and colleagues. And how can customers and MPs who have such a high intelligence quantum if you say we have a low, I say you have a high, that's what you think? And then we look at the numbers. If the purpose was to draw on this money and to have only some individuals come to some personal advantage, I would even say once again that he may not be mistaken at all. I would like to remind all of you here that we are aware of this, all those who are taking solutions here. Take a look at the data that 350 000 euros have been spent, of which about 158 000 have been the effect, we will not go into detail, because probably the Secretary of State has accurate data. I've acquired this data that I can operate on, but these data tell me something. So someone deliberately put together a story where the scoundrels could have pumped the money. And the story is nothing to me, nothing to you; the effects are what they are, they wash their hands, the money is gone, 350 000 euros will never come back, because it was used to put this system into place. This money will never come back, even if we today make this decision to abolish the values. This money is spent and those who have pumped the money will laugh and enjoy themselves, stick to a state manger, as I like to say. And no one gets hurt. Nobody gets hurt, and that's not right. It is not right that the government and coalition parties adopt the law only to throw the director out of office; it is shameful. That's amazing, and that's what happened today. When I listened to the views of the parliamentary groups today, we found that, of course, you would not support this law. Once again, it is clear that we have clearly proven that things are not going in the right direction. When we propose a better and better solution – none of this as if you were sitting on your ears, as if it were none of your business. I think this is the wrong world. And if we clearly find that things are not going in the right direction, there is a line to draw somewhere. I don't say that a person can't be wrong in life; I'm wrong too many times. But that is no shame; if you do what is right, do what is right, do what is right, you may be wrong, because it is normal. That's part of life. But if I find out what I'm doing wrong, then I'm doing the right thing. I am doing the right thing; the coalition and this government are nothing. Nothing. Nothing. I think that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have just decided that we have tabled this law because it is additional bureaucracy, but the effects that have been expected are not. It's the right thing to invest. Let me make it clear to the Slovenian public, which I think is extremely important; I hope that this moment will come when we get into the hands of the leadership of this country, we will definitely put an end to what we have promised – and I will say this to the public – the tax collectors, the value holders, the carriers and all these bureaucratic nonsensees, which today only add to the burden of our citizens and citizens. And it is right that people know this, that perhaps once in the future they can expect someone to actually do what people want and what people expect politicians to do. And I hope that this moment will be as soon as possible and that people will be able to see that, with some decision, they have influenced how certain things are being resolved in their behalf or in their non-profit. This government and coalition are working in their unprofitableness to their detriment. And I think he has to come at some point on the line. And it will certainly be done by the Slovenian people; and so it is. However, we will continue to strive to invest in solutions that go hand in hand with our citizens and citizens. And that's the right thing to do. I am grateful to New Slovenia, which supports good proposals. I do not see any reason why today Mr Tabakovic wanted to say that the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia have recently slid together. We go together when it comes to good suggestions and solutions. And that's right. This is what I would expect from all the other parties sitting in Parliament; obviously only in New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party are we who understand what citizens and citizens expect from us. And I think this time will come when they make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Comrade Pojbič, I ask you again to refrain from judging an intelligent quota. In the position of your group, your colleague said that some Members support stupid proposals, something similar has already been said in the previous debate by Mr Tonin, which suggests that some in this national assembly or in this Chamber are stupid. I don't think such disqualification is appropriate. This question, how do you understand and judge intelligent quantum, may you refer to your colleagues as to what such a dictatorship meant. I have already made this clear in my debate, and I also remain in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u133	There's no replica to the replica. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Mrs. Marinka Levičar. Procedurally, please, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was misunderstood, that's all I wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u135	It's not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u136	Of course, I'll suggest then, because I'll explain why it's procedural. That's all I'm saying. Just because someone takes stupid solutions doesn't mean they're stupid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the introduction of valuations meant simplification of the system compared to what had happened before. Before that, more paperwork was essential as regards the application of supplementary work. I understand, however, that it is often a bad will, because it is not only a valuation; but it is also necessary to meet predictions and reports in accordance with the Income Act and the Tax Procedure Act. In accordance with this law, which sets out the values, only the values are needed. I have done this many times and, as far as I am concerned or those who have done my job, it is a very simple system, because it is possible to go to the administrative unit, to get an evaluation, because it is possible to do so also by electronic means. A few older ladies went to the administrative unit, had no problems. For example, she was being trained by a lady who is still training my son, and she is already a retired woman. She went to the administrative unit and picked up the bill. I know quite a few people who are older, and the fact that they went for a fortune teller didn't present a problem. However, I must admit that it is still a problem, and that is why it seems to people that there is a lot of paperwork, if I put it that way, because a monthly or three-month or six-monthly forecast for income increments and a report on income achieved is to be met. But that's not the law. Even if we now accept this proposal of yours, we will not change that, because it is other relations that concern the application of income. We can possibly talk to the finance ministry about whether there are any changes here, and we'll see about that. As far as I'm concerned, you've missed a law that needs to be amended. But don't get angry, this problem, as far as registering income and other things are concerned, I've already said, it's just a matter of regulating it in another law. I know that you have a different system and a different view of how you should report; but with this law, even if you adopt it, I do not think that you would solve these administrative obstacles that exist under other laws. Personally, it seems to me that it is possible to settle the matter, including registering income electronically, completely and completely, if you have a digital certificate, and this certainly seems to me to be progress. It seems to me, and I am sure, that after almost one year of experience with this law, when we have one year to assess the situation, if now, after a year of completely changing the system, we reintroduce something else, we would have significantly higher costs, and that this could now also cause harm to that effect. But it counts how much someone's earning because they're applying for income. There will always be a problem with the application of complementary work, how we will be able to monitor it. The problem is that you can't get into an apartment because we have the right to privacy, the inviolability of an apartment, that's a protected right under the Constitution. How can we determine that? We'll never be able to get through everything here. But my basic conclusion is that now we've only introduced one thing to change. And I have to say that in practice, many times, if they were doing something, say, training, cleaning, child protection, I used a valedictorian and I was very happy. And even those who worked said that now the matter is simpler – I'm going to go get that valedictorian and I'm going to get it in two months. However, the problem was to comply with the receipts. What we can do for ourselves is that from the one who does this complementary work for us, we are so aware of ourselves that we demand that the valuer take it. Otherwise, it must also fill out the account and everything required under the Income Act and the Tax Procedure Act. But if we ourselves, who order that work to express ourselves, as the Bond Code says, if we are subscribers of this work, we are also responsible to say that we demand a valuer not to work in black. However, the State must have something to do with the need to deduct contributions from this and also income if the conditions for this are met. I believe that it is premature now to completely change the system and it is also too early on the basis of data from one year to say that this effect is now completely flawed and poor. As I said before, I think he's good. Now there would be more damage by changing it rapidly than by staying the way it is. That is why I cannot support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Peter Pogacar, Secretary of State. Let's get the mags ready. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have said that I will call after this very specific, interesting debate of honourable Mrs Murgel, who has pointed out the real problem. Let's ask ourselves what the situation was before. Here we regulate the relationship when a natural person orders the work of a natural person. A natural person has to pay contributions to a natural person, that's the first such system in our country we've had. What is the alternative to this proposal? Remember the alternative, we have repeatedly heard in the public: We pay in black because it is too administratively complicated to conclude a contract with it, at the same time go to notification to Furs and pay various contributions. This replaces the value of some other countries, which have this as a wider set of works, it is also possible for legal persons; this is how we have decided. Why is the list strictly limited? Just so that, as a legal form of work that is cheaper, it does not lead to unfair competition for independent entrepreneurs. As a result, no work normally carried out as an activity as a self-employed undertaking shall be carried out as a personal complementary work; however, the amount is very mixed. Today we have heard a great deal about the costs of introducing and maintaining the evaluation system. Initially, I stress that the cost of introducing the monitoring of valuations is fully automated. An individual who – you have said it nicely – orders today, pays the value, does it in one place, can do it again. All institutions involved – Ipes, Furs, administrative unit – are operating fully automated among themselves. The cost of introducing their data has to date been around €190,000; maintenance costs at annual level will not exceed €000 from now on, this is a one-off cost of implementation. When you say it, it costs those people who do it there. Also in your alternative proposal, when an individual comes to the pension insurance office to apply and report, there will also be people doing so. We're not doing anything in this system if that's what you want. One more thing, you're saying the system didn't get caught. The number of active providers of personal complementarities was around 3 000 in the year before the introduction; those who also reported to Furs. Not only are you registered, you have to report to Fursa, which means you've been active. Let us not forget, it has not been one year since the definitive introduction of this system. The six months of 2015 were still a transitional period when operators were able to carry out this work as they were. Today we are in the month of May, in fact only on the basis of valuations can it take place only from 1 July last year. During this time, the number of performers doubled, there were 6,000, and the number was growing. The number of securities paid is around 25,000, and data on how many contributions have been paid are only available for 2015 because we do not know them for this year. You speak only of how much it cost; but you neglect that it is a great cost. Did you ever think that the people who do most of this personal complementary activity are people who are unemployed, people who are recipients of monetary social assistance? Every month of retirement will come very well for them, and that was also the basic purpose. This period will be counted as a retirement period without the completion of the so-called working age, of which you have heard so much lately. It is also important that you provide people with adequate social security. What is the purpose of introducing valuations in us and in comparable other countries? That's not what the ministry remembered overnight. It looked at regulations in other countries. What's the point? People complained – we don't support work in black, but if we want some short-term and occasional work legally, it's so complicated that the country is already forcing me to pay him. Yes, we have stricted sanctions in agreement with the social partners for performing black work, but it is not enough just to raise sanctions; it is also important that you allow the human being to manage this administratively easily. Then you can say - we gave you a tool, we gave you an easy way to legalize this work that is done at your place, only to give you a chance. Let's not forget that. It was said, however, why would pensioners pay their pension contributions. You said a little with a laugh – "for solidarity". Not in pronunciations to talk about intergenerational solidarity; intergenerational solidarity is very important. With us, pensions are financed from work. It is right that they are financed from every form of work and whoever pays it; since last year students who pay through student work, temporary and occasional work of students and students are also paying contributions to pension insurance. Even pensioners who perform any work through copyright or business contracts – this was at the previous point that they could – are paying contributions to pension insurance. And that's the way it is. This is about solidarity, which is very important. As far as the list of works you mentioned is concerned; the list of works is divided into two groups, one is the work being done for the contracting authority; and the other is the work being done by the individual. You've said it well, it's about those who produce homemade and art crafts and so on. This is where we really wanted to simplify things for these people. These are mostly older people, and I was called then by people how to arrange for my father because he manufactures pond products of dry goods. Simply put, his daughter arranged everything for him in two days, and now he pays for the fortune teller every month and makes that dry edge. What's the problem? What you want with your proposal, however, is a derogation from this principle of the obligation to ensure that any individual who does legal work will decide whether to insure and pay a contribution or not. What if someone who works through the copyright contract comes to the National Assembly with a proposal, and he says that we are working through the copyright treaty, and we too would have to decide voluntarily whether to pay our contributions or not. Those are the questions. This is not left to individuals. Remember, the one who pays the pension contribution also pays the contribution for the injuries at work. What if something happens to him in his line of work? This is not negligible, things are not so simple that you simply say — but it is not worth it, let us put an end to it, and let us not know how. And then there's no way to go about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to some of the suggestions. First, to the Secretary of State, who said I made a mockery of solidarity. With laughter it was only because this was mentioned for the first time as an answer to my question, and it was exposed there, as well as in the opinion of the Government. Otherwise, I believe that the intergenerational solidarity of all of my age — older, younger, completely everyone — is still well aware of and is really something that I don't think is worth mentioning at all. However, we really want to stress that you have confused everything with the same status, and we do not see the point. We as proponents see no point in this, because we believe that this could be resolved in another and more appropriate way. You say that every month of retirement is important; but if you ask yourself, one value is one day. Twenty months, 21 or 22 months, someone will be working; someone who buys one of the values per month. Someone else who's doing the tutoring and has a lot of subscribers who buy him a fortune teller, but maybe he'll only be working for a month. We just don't see the point in you comparing it. It's not comparable because it's different jobs. You mentioned a domestic trade. In this way we will lose some of these small masters of domestic crafts that we have in Slovenia. They're the ones who buy one of the values per month, which is one day of retirement. It is true that this is mostly done by elderly people who are already retired and who are not actually in the retirement age. Maybe we'd like to pass this on to younger generations. Maybe one of their grandchildren is unemployed right now, but he's ready to learn something from his grandfather. But he might benefit if he was able to gain that month of retirement earlier than 20 or 21 months. We just don't see it that way. We can't compare personal complementary work with an author's contract, either, no. There's some special work back there, and we didn't put it that way. Colleague Murgel, you see in this simplification of the system that can be ordered electronically through eGovernment. Yeah, there you go. The Secretary of State will probably know how many of these valuations or personal supplementary work have been notified to administrative units and how many have been notified through eGovernment. It's amazing. I'm sorry, there's very little of this. We would like to see more, but I strongly support that this option exists electronically. We made a mistake – no, we didn't. We didn't even want to change anything about income. Even when this system of valuations was in place, it did not actually change this income-related system. We didn't miss the law, that's what we wanted to propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I want to make it clear that I didn't think that simplification was just electronic, because it had to fill out a lot more papers before. It is also easier to go to the administrative unit and get that value. Even older people, whom we often say they can't, have no computer, can't go online, I don't know what; no problem going to that administrative unit, because I've met quite a few people who have gone and worked the same way before. They said it's a simplification now, and now it's easier. Well, as far as the Income Act and the Tax Procedure Act are concerned, I just mentioned it, but I didn't say we should change it. However, it must be taken into account in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mag. Tanya Zink, please. Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Jože Tanko be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. The new regulation of personal complementary work and the valuation system also introduced the principle that each work is counted. We have heard this a number of times in this Chamber today, including by the proposer. This made it clear what falls under personal complementary work, since we know that personal complementary work is the most common thing to do in black work; that is, we also have two sets of such works in the law. Undoubtedly, the government also wanted to reduce the scope of the grey economy in this way. Above all, it has not exacerbated the penal policy, but has focused on enhancing the social security of the person who is doing this work. We know that the payment of the value book also ensures the payment of contributions, allowing certain rights and minimum social security. With this amendment to the law on the prevention of work in black, the proposaler wants to abolish, allow voluntary pension and disability insurance for those who perform personal supplementary work, and – very nice to say – re-enter the old system; at the same time mentions among the objectives or substantive solutions that keep the principle of each work counted. I wonder how we can guarantee this principle when we leave the possibility of a decision to the person doing the complementary work. I just don't get it, and I don't get it. I hope that the proposer will explain this further in a more reasoned manner. In the opinion of the Government, I quote: "It is not possible to understand from the proposal of the law the scheme of pension and disability insurance, which is supposed to be established for persons performing personal supplementary work under the proposal of the law. The proposed solutions do not establish a method of inclusion in insurance, the consequences of such inclusion, nor do they prescribe the rights to which these persons may be entitled." Leave a decision to an individual whether to take part in insurance and pay contributions would also be contrary to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act or the principle it contains, that is, the insurance obligation. Persons who are self-employed and over 15 years of age, who are resident in the Republic of Slovenia, for they can now, under the conditions laid down in the Act, provide, inter alia, the basis for the payment of contributions, the manner of payment of contributions and the payment of taxpayers, voluntarily participate in compulsory pension and disability insurance. In addition, the proposal provides for only a means of inclusion in individual insurance, but does not specify the scope of the rights. In short, it is difficult to compare the draft law with the law on pension and disability insurance, because the proposal is unclear and incomplete. In the opinion of the applicant, the valuations do not represent any added value either. I can't agree with that. On the basis of the one-off costs incurred by the establishment of the system and other costs associated with the issuance of the valuations, I would not hope to claim that there is no added value in this. I think that it is still necessary to wait for the effects of the valuation system to be demonstrated by paying into the cash register. To conclude, let me just give you a few more details that suggest that the new regime was very likely to be positive. On the day of 10. 5. In 2016, twice the number of performers was reported on the Ipes than before the new system was put in place. Apparently, there is also a lot of interest, as the department says they receive daily calls about new proposals for personal supplementary work. In addition, the total amount of payments to the health and pension allowance was up to 31. 12. 2015 158 000 € 490, which is not negligible. In view of everything that's been said, the proposed novel doesn't convince me, so I can't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The debate is what it is. I am pleased that we are not going to this debate on some ideological topics; because in many debates that had nothing to do with ideology, we have put ourselves on this slippery ground. I am also pleased today that we are not talking about the first President of the State of Slovenia, but that we are actually talking about the content of this law. Values, only and only values. It's perfectly legitimate to think that very different things are being solved with common nouns and values. But I ask myself the following: the purpose of the evaluators was as one of measures to eliminate, to limit the grey economy; not the only one. The purpose of the evaluators was also to bring something into the budget, or rather, into both cash registers. And something came up, and I was talking about numbers, and now I'm going to read them because I didn't remember them. Around €160,000 in pension and $35,000 in health allowance just for start-up, the matter is likely to continue, increase and make the financial situation even more favourable for both cash registers. It was probably also the object of the asset, the evaluation mechanism also in some way simplification. They have some administrative obstacles, some of them, and others, to be perfectly honest, I have no better solution, so I think this existing one is purely optimal and acceptable. If you have it, I will be very happy, probably even colleagues from the Ministry of Labour, if you find more effective solutions and solutions. If the alternative is to this: the values – no, but nothing else – is acceptable to me, because then we are going back to the system that was before, which I estimate was worse than this now with these values. In fact, nothing's going to change, let's go back a step or two. I am very surprised that the proponents defend this river or this paradigm, if I may say so – Every work counts, but the values do not. How, then, is every job. I believe that for every job we will not go to the copyright contract, to the commercial contract, which, by the way, is very foreign to me or is not the most appropriate way for me. For each occasional, small job, it probably can’t be — but it would be nice if it could be — an indefinite employment contract. Of course not. As it is said, there is no magic stick to arrange the system; however, for my taste it is a very good attempt with these values. As it is said, the effects are, people have started to use this, sometimes it's said to be a thing. I think he's taking over. Once again, I will reiterate that no law, no coercion, not even punishment — that I have said before in the position of the Group of Members — will work if in some way we do not switch our minds on the need to stick to certain rules; do not stick to that motto if you somehow pretend to be a jack. I don't think that's it. If we move these things in our mind, what do we gain by doing so?Oh, my God! We also get some legal protection if you want, some rights, and if anything happens at work, the budget is full. I will be very happy, and I will also allow myself, through the debate, to ask this question whether there may be a solution to the proposaler, but only this: the values – no, we are moving on with the old ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready. Here you go, Lady Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I must, of course, agree with the speakers when I have read this proposal and devoted myself to the most important objectives that the applicant has set. Then I must say that I have found disappointed that this proposal does not actually pursue these objectives, which are listed in the proposal as objectives, that, in fact, with the removal of valuations and consequently the return to the old system – which we can all agree today that it has been worse – does not pursue these objectives. The proposaler here cites a minor red tape. What, I'm asking you, could be a little bit less bureaucratic than going to an administrative unit and picking up a value card or even ordering it online. In the previous system, in order not to be mistaken, it was also necessary to re-vote reports and so on. As I've been informed, there's been a major mess in this area. Neither did the lists run as precisely as they are now; the black work was much more than it is now; therefore, I find it difficult to imagine a system which would then mean less red tape than the values. I don't know where the proponent got these numbers, but the active performers were less than 3,000 before this system was introduced, and today there are over 6,000. This means that the number of operators has doubled, which can be estimated to be a good result since last year, when this system entered into force on 1 January, there was also a semi-annual transitional period. It is said that, in this half year, those operators who have been notified so far have been able to carry out their personal complementary work under the old system, which means that they have not actually contributed to the financial effects that are now estimated at €160,000. Of this, 35,000 went to health care and 123 thousand went to the pension register. I also did not see data that the introduction of this system would cost the country EUR 350 000, but only 192; and these, of course, are the initial costs. Any new project costs a certain amount; as we have already heard today, then there will be thousands of euros at the annual level to maintain this system. And if I may give a little attention to what the proposer says, perhaps someone would like more days to be admitted to him in the insurance or pension period. A personal supplemental work, the name already says, is something you do in addition. If someone wants half a year's work, then it's not a personal extra job, but it's a different form of work to be used. But I must say that of all the forms that are in this area, the system of valuations, I could say, is the most flexible form that practically anyone can use. And if we talk about the system Every work counts as has already been said today, students pay, including pensioners based on other legal grounds when they work, pay; in Slovenia we have a solidarity system, we all pay for everything. I don't pay 50 euros from my salary every month on my own account, and then I draw from this account, but we all pay for everything. That's the way it is, and that's the way this system is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Let's get this straight with Mr. Tabakovic first. Once again, I still say that this is a stupid measure. Values are a stupid measure. So that Mr. Tabaković won't have any problems; if it's a bad theatre show or if someone has a feeling that they've been watching a boring theater show, does that mean that the players are bad?Oh, my God! They're not. That Mr. Tabakovic won't have any problems. Let's do it in a row. It is a pity to have eight pages of the government's opinion, because at the beginning we could write the first and only sentence: The law is non-systematic and we do not support it. With all due respect, that would be the easiest thing to do, and then it would be easier to talk to each other. A customer of a modern centre as a successor to two or three former clients has a problem because it would be voluntary. Dear Members of the Modern Centre Party, where are you a European customer? Alde, liberals. I'm going to make a procedural suggestion that they bring you their statutes because your operation is nowhere near Alda. Let us look at the previous law that we had on the part of the New Slovenia Group and this law. God forbid anything would be voluntary. But only a small man needs to be hit, mandatory. And it's a system of valuations, and it's a system of carriers, and it's a tax box system, a top of an ordinary citizen; it's not gonna make anyone feel worthless, and it's not gonna have any problems with small and larger people. Break an ordinary citizen with every bill you adopt. And why is the evaluation system stupid? Those of us from the previous term – here the modern centre Party has a great advantage because there were none – we know how many articles and famous words the minister said: The system of valuations will stop work in black, the system of valuations will prevent the grey economy. We thought that everyone would fly into this system of valuations and that the country would have, at this level, a mandatory million profits. In one year, so at some point – you always have time problems, once is too much for one month, and the second is too little for you one year – this great, oh and even the system brought in the health and pension allowance of 160 000 euros. If these 160,000 euros are a solution, we'll get sponsors of that kind of money in the parliamentary group when millions of people are flying, and there's no problem. 160 000 euros is a relief; but if the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a law saying that we would put 10,000 euros in the state budget with a measure or take them, there would be shouting and screaming about the financial consequences. Dear predecessor, you said the system was good, the previous system was bad, and we all agree. No, look at the vote list, who supported the evaluation system and who didn't. We have not supported this bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, at least those Members of the previous mandate. And I still say, with the valuation system, the area is black and the grey economy is not being solved. Perhaps it was a pianistly nice measure, for which after almost 18 months we can see that there was nothing of this spectacular draft law. At the same time, the Modern Centre Party refers to the fact that in the coming years, I do not know how it will increase and then we will talk about whether it was bad or good law. Of course, 2020, because most of your actions are after 2018; but we all know that the longer this government, and I will dare say, at least the majority of the Party of the Modern Centre will no longer exist and no one here will point to one or the other who was guilty. Let me go back, free will, voluntary and, on the other hand, compulsory. The introduction of values and the current defence of values is a typical example of socialist governments. The values, the carriers, the tax registers, everything mandatory, but also the intimidation of people. National sport has become what we wanted to eradicate because of some past system, that people will no longer beat each other, who is good and who is honest, because we should have state institutions to take care of it. And because you are not or are not able to make a state system with good control, we even reward people with certain measures to accuse neighbors who are unhappiness because someone has a new bike because they certainly did not deserve it; and such nonsense. Really, ask the people at Furs, but not those officers inside Furs who are in the offices, where instead of one now there are two officials, ask the people on the ground about the nebulosis they're dealing with. It seems foolish for them to go to work because they wonder if they really deserve their salary. What little things they deal with are simply because you take measures to encourage things to make people go against each other. True; and in this case, for the fights, €160,000 in contributions to the pension and health allowance. Simplification of the system, once again, I will explain to the former Minister of Labour, Mr Příkl. If this is a simplification that you have to go to the administrative unit and that you have to submit reports to Furs, income, if this is a simplification, then we do have a problem in Slovenia with what is easy. Some boasted about how they knew the cases, how it was a great system, and how it was used. I'm just going to say that here, fortunately, at least you're using the valedictorian because those who invented this system were paying for their hands. The former president of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, now a prominent member of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, admitted that the cleaning woman was paying in hand. And that's exactly what we're trying to tell you. By forcing people into a system, you practically force them into the field of the grey economy. The number involved, here we have the obvious wrong data, we've got the information that before 9 thousand were involved, now you're saying that only 3,000 active. I remember the debates of the previous governments, who deleted people from different records. Apparently, this government is best at erasing records, because it is easy for 9,000 people to come to 3,000 with data; and it says that 6 thousand are doubles. On the other hand, we say that it is almost half the reduction. And another key issue is why the proposal of the evaluators in our opinion – I said earlier – what action would not Mr Tabakovic have any problems. You threw it all together, everything. And what happens in practice? That my friends, who because of health problems can't put a child in kindergarten, don't get an elderly lady by any means to protect their children, because, in addition to all the other nonsense that this person should be carrying out, there is a system of valuations. In order for an x person, a lady to take care of a neighbor's child, she has to apply and go to the administrative unit, broadcast reports and up and down. So far we have brought this simplification of bureaucracy in Slovenia. On the other hand, we had the case of a lady who took care of her neighbor's baby this weekend because the young parents had the weekend off. However, in good manners, how she helps the neighbours, this young couple, not by any means on Friday afternoon, has it come to mind that she will be dealing with the system of valuations. What did she get? Punishment. What we want in this Slovenia is to be punished immediately, due to good will, the assistance of the neighbours has been punished. And we in Parliament are talking about values, what is little work, what is short-term work, and so on, we are giving time deductions, spatial deductions; only that it would not be too open for people to live normally without thinking about where, when and how the country could knock it down. No; we have to have everything in a box, and even inside a square we have to make some sort of a unique smell of former socialist times, when we knew exactly what someone was doing. And with such proposals as values, that is what this country is doing. And of course, in the end, we are still guilty Members of Parliament, because officials remember the measures, and in the end, people are beating all over the national assembly – you are all the same, the same, the same. We didn't. But we also agree that there will be no mistake that no one will say how we share again on the left and on the right; we also agree. But we are not all the same, and we are not all, as a colleague once said, in the same agreement that the previous system was worse. We argue that the previous system was at least as good, at least as good. And what you may have liked to bring into the pit is, above all, the SD party here is very strong in how the Minister of Labour and the Vice-President of the Government are in every area against the grey economy. But look at the fraction, these two ministers are the ones most concerned about how an average citizen needs to be rolled into a drawer and intimidated. In the parliamentary group, we continue to argue that this is a reduction in bureaucracy and that the system of valuations has not achieved what may have been intended; and that the system of valuations will not even achieve its purpose in 2018 or 2020, when it is likely that another composition of the National Assembly will also think that the system is inconclusive and must be abolished. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, instead of waiting until 2018, we are now removing the values. And to conclude, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will continue with the legislative proposals that help people to have a choice; not to force them into a mandatory matter by any measure. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u153	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At the end of this debate, which I don't think is bad at all, no one would think. Things need to be discussed, things can always be improved, and the question is, in what way and whether the alternative is actually an improvement. But here we can have different opinions, probably. It seems important to me to emphasise; the honourable Member said that the country expected the country to benefit from this title. By no means, the State under this heading does not have any profit, the contribution to the payment of the valuation goes to the pension and health allowance, nor does the State intend to make profits out of this. The aim of the State is not to tolerate those working in black at home, even in personal complementary work; to allow them to make it easy, administratively easy, to ensure the legalisation of the work being done at home; and to ensure that those who do this work are paid social security contributions. Today, it has been repeatedly said, it is a system where we first established that a person performing personal supplementary work has paid contributions to pension and health insurance. But let's not forget, if someone were to work 100 or 200 hours in one month, as you mentioned, that's why the amount is limited. The amount at the six-month level is limited to the amount of three net average wages. You talk a lot about the weaknesses of this system. They can; the system can always be improved; we never said that it could not be simplified administratively, for example, that Furs should not be reported for such a short period of time, it is always a possibility of debate, but not in this law. If the matter were so bad, we would not have been faced at the Ministry in the last year since the system came to life, with constant proposals for expanding the works on the list. Individuals who want to do their job which they want to do legally, which they do not tolerate in black because they want to have one day recognised social security rights, have already sent a proposal to the Ministry to expand the list. The Government's Anti-Working Commission has discussed these proposals and the Rules of Procedure on the List of Parts will be submitted to the Economic and Social Council within one month. At the end of this debate, I would say that our view is that the drafter of the law comes from his point of view that the current system of valuations is inadequate, that it has not proved to be effective and that it has been associated with high costs. Our assessment of all costs, and all these costs are shared among the various institutions, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the administrative units and the Agency for Public Records and Services, all of which cost €190,000 in start-up costs. You are talking about the amount of just under €160,000 received by the pension and health bills; but these amounts will come, and the cost of establishing is always only at the beginning. I decline that it was an idea for the state to make profits. No, no, no. As I have already pointed out today, remember, it is right that every part is paid for and that those who carry out this work will have rights one day from this title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u155	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, President. I believe that the aim of the proposaler was good in 2014; and we have also come from this purpose. We came from what the minister had foretold at the time. This is that the number of registrations of the personal supplemental part will double, at the time it was 9 thousand. On this basis, of course, we rightly expected 18,000 people to be registered at the end. It has been announced that around EUR 2 million will flow into pension and health bills. And if we look at the whole year, even if we ignore that half of the year was still a transitional period, and if we say that, say, in 2016 for a quarter or once more, it will still be no more than 300,000. So essentially less than 2 million, what you predicted at the start. It is a pity that the Minister is not here today to explain, because there were so many such statements in the media at the time; and we have come out of this. You say it doesn't matter how much this country costs or how much the country gets. Okay, I'm just an economist, and maybe I'm always thinking a little differently. What would we do at the company? They're doing some new product program at the company that they're going to be selling on the market. They put them on the market and then they try for six months, one year, a year and a half, they watch what happens. And if, together with this, they also have costs that are only at the beginning of putting a product on the market and running costs by producing more costs than they get, they will probably no longer persist; except for what long-term strategic reasons they want to maintain themselves on the market. They'll probably just quit this program. I know we can't draw an equation here with public administration, but there's something that needs to be realized — taxpayers, we're all actually paying for the whole state apparatus. And probably people are justly curious about what's going on with this money. And it probably doesn't make sense to them if the state spends more than it gets with some extra system. That doesn't make any sense, Mr. Secretary of State. As has already been said, we have come exclusively from the Minister's announcement of what should be reduced by this. More than once, work has been reduced to a black, gray economy. Please tell me, how much have you reduced the grey economy and how much have you reduced your work to black?Oh, my God! Several times it has been obvious that a new system of valuations has barely been introduced, and now we want to end it. What did you do to the tax box a short time ago? We had virtual tax receipts, not a single analysis of them has been done, but you have already introduced real tax receipts. Now you're telling us we want to shut this system down. We waited a year. We know it was a transitional period, they could have worked the old way; they were one, they weren't. However, this amount, which has come into the budget, is significantly lower than was forecast at the beginning. It was said that the solution was not on the table. There's no Mr. Prick here now. The solution is this law that we're proposing here. Today is the first consideration; if you feel that something is not appropriate, let us finish it together. We put him in a regular procedure. There's no problem with that. We have proposed a solution so as not to say that there is no solution. Perhaps it is right, because the debate was still so wide that we can re-emphasize some numbers. The number of registrations for personal supplemental work was forecast to double. There were 9,000 at the time, which means 18,000. There's six thousand of them today. It was said that we would receive about 2 million in pension and medical bills from this address. In 2015 we received just under 159 000 euros. And as the main incentive for this to be legal work now, you are alerting one day to the retirement age that an individual receives with a valor. Yeah, it was stressed, it's a personal supplemental job, it just says the name, it's true. Unfortunately, we still have too many unemployed. It's been exposed, and a lot of these people are also doing personal complementary work. But we know what the limits of this work are; we are aware of it and do not change it. With our proposal, we just want to end the system of valuations as such, go back to personal complementary work, as it was. In doing so, we want to maintain this limit as far as one can earn in a six-year period; and we want the system of payment of contributions to be then on a voluntary basis so that it does not be set at EUR 9 per value. Why? Because we don't think it makes any sense because you've been throwing it all together in one basket. It doesn't really fit. On the one hand, the valuation is paid by the contractor, on the other hand paid by the contracting authority. Individual works are such that they are performed on a single scale for a month. Other works, however, are such that for each contracting entity there may be a few ten. The only limit, which is, is as much as anyone with a value card can earn. But unfortunately, one work is worth more, such as individual instruction, as is possible a domestic trade, into which a person invests a substantial number of hours; but so it is on the market. If we look at the numbers a little bit more, 17 000 610 values were bought together in 2015. Of these, 7000 759 bought individuals for themselves. This means that these are mostly domestic crafts, handicrafts, and the like. So 7 thousand 760 people bought a fortune teller, most likely one a month. On the other hand, we have a little less than 10 thousand valuations that stay here when the valuations actually buy the subscribers themselves. Regarding the cost of the valuations, yes, indeed, the introduction is a one-off cost, you said everything is automated, they are all connected – administrative unit, financial administration, iPad, which runs these lists; it is true. But this system still needs to be maintained, and it probably costs something. Don't convince me there's no cost here because we know that in public administration all systems are maintained. And that's probably what someone's holding up. And I don't think that's gonna cost thousands of euros a year. All these reports that need to be submitted, including reports, are still being processed manually. And the cost of doing so cannot be ignored in any way. When we look at what we got out of it and how much it costs, we just can't. There's no plus here. We're in red numbers. And our proposal is well-intentioned. Turns out the system's not the best. We agree, of course we condemn work to a black, gray economy, we need to look for solutions; but more than obviously this is not the best solution. You mentioned that many countries have similar solutions. Yeah, well, there's a lot of other countries around here that have a different solution, and it works for them, and we don't. Let's talk. I believe that some of the coalition Members, although they are coalitions, agree, vote; but I believe that someone else in this Chamber has overlooked that this system is not good. They're walking around the field, talking to people. Then you come in a month with a proposal of your marriage, and then it will probably be a good one; or let us finish this law of ours, which is now under first reading, and let us finish it accordingly, what is wrong. But we are aware of the fact, we are aware of the numbers, that's all we really want here. And to the end. Someone wrote that the values would not be abolished because they provided work for officials. Yeah, he probably doesn't want that. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u157	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah. Before applying, I would like to point out that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko, and the representative of the Government, please also apply with the pressure of the microphone switch. In this case, they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'd still like to take another call. After this latest implementation by the proposing lady, as it has been very clear today, the Secretary of State was unable to say more clearly than he said, and I really do not understand why you insist on your claims if they have been so clearly rejected today. You see some disproportionate costs, for which it has been said, costs amounted to EUR 192 000, which are unique in nature due to the introduction of the system. At the same time, you propose to delete this, so that it goes back to the old system, which will re-signify all the appropriate adjustments for the establishment of completely new implementation solutions at the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, at the Institute of Health Insurance, at Furs, which will be linked again to certain new costs. At the same time, you suggest that the transfer of the management of the list be re-transferred from Ipes to administrative units. These are also some additional costs and so on. This really isn't consistent when you talk about how we would do it in the economy. I have to warn you, there is no new product being introduced here, there has been a change in the production line, and even after six months they will not go back to trading in the economy. And I also have to agree with my colleague Lisce, we're not all the same. Believe me, it's me sitting here, I'm very well aware, thank God. We don't scare people, you scare them. And you're saying we're pushing them into some kind of system. There's always a system, just for every form of work there's a system. No one on the market can do the same as any individual at that time would do the most. Everyone must be included in a system, namely pensioners, those who work under copyright contracts and those who are employed as espouses, not to mention at all. And you say that it was necessary to report, to report; of course, it had to be done before. And even if we adopt your bill today, it will still be necessary, exactly the same and even more bureaucratic. And I must say, your insistence is flat. Today, the Secretary of State said nicely, before, there were 9,000 people who had been notified, but in fact there were 3 000 performers, here is now this difference, because today no one will buy a valuation if they really have no intention of doing this work. At the time, however, everyone registered, whether he intended to do so or not, so the confusion was so much greater. Those who actually carried out the personal complementary work were 3,000, and today there are 6 of them. Please don't just turn the numbers on your mind and flat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u159	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr Peter Pogačar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully agree with the debate of the honourable Member of the Servant, and there is practically nothing to add to this. Maybe I would just repeat it again, the system is fully operational for less than a year. Last year, in the middle of the year, a transitional period expired when operators were able to carry out their personal supplementary work even after the old years. During this time, the number of performers of the Personal Supplemental Work has practically doubled according to the APIS and the number from month to month has increased. Once again, it was not the intention of the state to make some terrible profits on this account, nor can you simply compare it with the investment and profits of this title. The cost of setting up was unique, the money in the pension fund for the social security of these people. Remember, for injury insurance at work, do not forget, even for personal supplemental work, something can happen and must be insured. Let us not forget the basics, the basic idea was simply to enable natural persons – who want to do some work with them, and who do not tolerate working in black, who believe that this is something bad – in what way this legal work should be done in them, how for those who work, they should settle contributions for pension insurance, so that those who perform personal supplementary work will one day also have rights from pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u161	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. I truly regret that I have not received an answer to the basic question of how much work has been reduced to black and how much the grey economy has decreased. If this was the basic purpose of the law, I am really interested in what the results of this title are for the introduction of the values. On the other hand, I would like to point out the payment to the pension fund. In our case, we advocate that this be voluntary. Do you not allow the possibility that something else might come from this title? Why don't people make up their minds about this; as we say, we have two completely different groups of people here, and we can't just compare it that way. The instructor or one lady who has come to help clean the house for an hour or two gets a date and gets one day of retirement. On the other hand, a person does his personal supplementary work for one month on one of the values. We can't equal that. I believe that the interest and desire of these people would be a lot more. However, we still know what limitations are here and when it comes to personal complementary work and when it comes to any other form of work. That was our proposal. I don't see what our proposal was more bureaucratic about either. As has been said, we still do not have individual applications, although it has been two years since this decision on the system of valuations was confirmed in the National Assembly. That's what the MP, who belongs to the minister's client, said. The start-up, introductory costs incurred are not yet fully known and the system is likely to have to be continuously complemented. Of course, it is in the interests of everyone that it is legal to work, to blacken out work, to reduce the grey economy and not have unfair competition, the interest of all, I agree here. However, I think there are more than enough reasons why this system is not the best. More than obviously everyone's defending their position, and that's it. Let's talk. I view this as very productive and thank you to all those who have participated in this debate. But once again, I urge you to reconsider. The first consideration is today, the proposal for a law can be finalized and done in fact better. And maybe in a year or two, we'll find out that we have one real result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u163	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the media law after a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 50 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u164	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Music quotas have been prescribed for many years and remain as they are with this bill. The purpose of the law now in force was to eliminate the anomaly afforded by the legal dictatorship, which was written in such a way that it could be abused. Most of the prescribed quota for Slovenian music was broadcast by radio stations at night. The current Media Act, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 28 January this year and entered into force on 9 April, provides in Article 86a, first paragraph, that at least 60 % of the share referred to in Article 86, first and second paragraphs shall be transmitted within a broadcasting period between 6 and 19 hours. It is said that, according to the current law, of all songs that will be rejected within 24 hours, the mandatory quota of Slovenian songs should be calculated and then 60% of this should be rotated between 6 a.m. and 19 p.m. Following the adoption of the current law, it subsequently appeared that national RTV radio stations would have difficulties in meeting this statutory share. Why? Because they have significantly more speech than a music programme in individual cases during the daytime, and it would be difficult to implement the mandatory quota for Slovenian music. With the bill we are considering today, we amend Article 86a by introducing the obligation to achieve the prescribed share in view of the specific volume of broadcasting during the broadcast time between midnight and 6 a.m., between 6 a.m. and 18 p.m., and also between 18 a.m. and 24 p.m. With this arrangement, we will achieve that radio stations will be able to meet the obligations of the law and at the same time implement their established programmes. Since we are Members of the Modern Centre Party and are also the proponents and signatories to the bill, we will, of course, support it. In this way, we have responded in a timely and effective manner to the legitimate warnings of the representatives of the public radio programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u165	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I again give the floor to the President, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 12th urgent meeting, on 20 April 2016, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on Media submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. At its 58th regular meeting on 15 April 2016, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law amending the Law on Media should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects, the proposed law was examined by the Legislative and Legal Service. Despite the fact that quotas have been legally prescribed for a number of years, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out in principle that in the amendment, the proposed arrangements in the form of mandatory Slovenian music quotas must be made clear as a measure necessary to achieve the objective pursued. In its opinion, the draft law was supported by the Government. The amendments to Article 1 were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. In my opening remarks as a representative of the motioners in the explanation of the novel, I said that, with the proposed amendment of the law, we would like to correct the provisions in force under Article 86a by allowing radio programmes to implement the legal provisions to the extent prescribed, without prejudice to the speech programmes of each radio. The proposed law regulates the obligation to play music in the Slovenian language in a way that takes into account the significant difference between the programming scheme during the night and the day. The proposal lays down the obligation to achieve quotas for the transmission of Slovenian music to radio and television programmes in order to achieve the prescribed share in the time zones between midnight and 6 p.m., between 6 p.m. and 18 p.m. and between 18 and 24 p.m. of the Media Act referred to in Article 86, paragraph 1, or 2. Three intervals are necessary because the programming schedule differs from the programme at night during the 6th to 18th hours. Between 6 a.m. and 18 p.m., less music is played and more talk shows are played, as is the case during the nighttime. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Anton Peršak, explained that they agree at the Ministry with the proposed amendment as well as with the proposed amendment of the coalition and therefore support its adoption. The committee debate took place in several directions, some welcomed the bill as it would prevent the possible misuse of music quotas. The debate also highlighted the preparation of a media strategy that will comprehensively address the topic in the amendment and will form the basis for the drafting of a new system law. Other discussers were of the opinion that, with regard to the proposed amendment, there was not enough dialogue with the public concerned; that quotas would achieve a reverse effect from the desired, namely that the same songs or musicians would always be broadcast; that a mandatory proportion of less established, younger musicians should be established and that the two intervals would be simpler and simpler. In addition, it was explained by the proposers that the quota scope was not affected and that it had been established for many years, that a broad public debate had been opened on quotas and that a public presentation of opinions had been organised by the Committee on Culture, which included a number of coordinations. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amendment is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u167	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u168	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As Mr President of the Committee has already said, with the proposed compromise, if I may say so, in view of the initial proposal and the further adoption of the bill, the Government agrees and supports it, so that I can conclude my performance with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u169	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon! The amendments to the Media Act in the field of Slovenian music quotas have been quite upsetting to the public; and rightly so. The process of the coalition and the ministry was, to say the least, harsh and also disoriented. The current amendment proposed by members of the coalition is trying to settle matters, but the change remains only at the time-zone level and the share of the broadcast. As far as music quotas are concerned in general, we have already expressed our position in the United Left several times; we are skeptical of them; if not otherwise, because they are solving the problem from the wrong side, i.e. distribution rather than production. The quotas could, of course, have a positive function if they contained appropriate mechanisms, especially if they were part of the wider promotion and creation of the conditions for production of diverse, quality and genre diverse domestic music, which of course does not necessarily mean music in the Slovenian language. The situation in the field of broadcasting and popular music is quite plausible. The country is a vehicle of public cultural interest and, as such, is responsible for music culture – not only in the public media at all. At the same time, it is necessary to ask why the situation in the field of private broadcasting is so clarinet. The answer should be sought in the privatisation of national television frequencies in the mid-1990s when one of the first wild privatisations took place under the strong influence of private lobbying around the then ruling party. But we do know how the story then developed that there is a radio empire in this area today and on the other hand a small station that is in a very difficult position in most cases. This time, the proposal of the coalition Members proposes a uniform allocation of Slovenian music quotas in three broadcast bands. In the previous amendment, you have already entered into the law an obligation regarding music of a younger date, but it should be noted that the change does not bring any guarantee for the performance of quality and also of diverse music. Above all, it does not offer a guarantee for young and less established musicians. We have repeatedly proposed this in the United Left. The key objective of the quota system should be to open up the space for the presentation and popularisation of new, fresh and less established music production, while at the same time improving the economic and social situation of domestic musicians and authors, particularly commercially less established. We can therefore rightly conclude that only some performers, the most exposed and, above all, the most commercially interesting musicians, will be added to the aether; including instant music produced by radio owners and developed according to the results of the telephone survey. The largest number of quotas in this form will be composed of a variety of musical tenants. The quota system has its purpose and functions only if it is integrated into the broader incentives for the development of domestic music production; therefore, if it encourages younger and unenforced performers, improves the economic and social position of musicians and enables the quality and diversity of the entire music scene, from creation to concerting and to other activities. In the United Left, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending the Media Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u171	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u172	Nicely greeted! We Christian Democrats advocate the principle that laws must be clear, transparent and enforceable. At the time of consideration of this and the previous novel of the Law on Media, we adopted several representatives of various media or radio stations in the New Slovenia Group. The message of all was one; the proposal of the law is not good because it enforces quotas in a way that is very difficult in practice, almost impossible to implement. Especially because of the different relationship between the programme being spoken and the music being played. In Novi Slovenije we stressed that this relationship between the night and day programme is problematic because there is more music at night and more talk in the afternoon. We have also pointed out that this law will bring additional administrative obstacles or too much red tape. This will put certain radio stations, especially smaller ones, at risk. Instead of dealing with the content of the programme, employees will count and calculate minutes and seconds to report to the supervisory authorities. Members of the government's parties and the competent minister have peacefully rejected all our concerns and supported the law. It started on April 9th. Well, two months later, the lighting came and you quickly change the law at the most impertinent point. You make well - thought - out decisions, and most of all, you follow the principle: Let it cost you what you want, just to make it our way. We Christian Democrats have repeatedly proposed the principle of reward instead of punishment. For example, those who prove that they play more Slovenian music or the music of young artists would get more points on invitations or access to frequencies and so on. We should prove our own strengths. However, this law requires constant supervision and a large number of administrations to keep records and prove compliance with the prescribed quotas. According to a government proposal, control in practice will also be ineffective. With the proposed novel, we are putting out the fire again instead of introducing a new end to the incentives for a better Slovenian and better programme. Members of New Slovenia will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u173	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u174	Dear Mr. President! True, dear colleagues, this amendment of the law does not change the quota in any way. The quotas are, in fact, a constant with our law in the past period, and therefore this was not the purpose of the amendment of the law. The purpose of the law now in force was to eliminate the anomaly afforded by the law, written in a way that could be abused. Most of this prescribed quota of Slovenian music could be broadcast by radio stations at night. The current Media Act, which was adopted in the National Assembly on 28 January 2016 and entered into force on 9 April, provided in Article 86a, first paragraph, that at least 60 % of the share referred to in Article 86, first and second paragraphs should be submitted during the transmission period between 6 and 19 hours. It is also true that at this time we have announced the adoption of this amendment, which we are proposing today. We have found that national radio stations would have difficulties in meeting the statutory share, since they have significantly more speech than the music programme in individual cases during the daytime. This would make it very difficult to implement the law. With the proposal for a law that we are considering today, we are amending the provision of this 86.a. by introducing the obligation to achieve the share referred to in Article 86 of the Media Act of 40%, in the case of national radio of 25% for programmes of special importance and 20% for commercial radios, which must be paid in relation to the broadcast time between midnight and 6 a.m., between 6 and 18 p.m. and between 18 and 24 p.m. With this arrangement, we will achieve that radio stations will meet the obligations of the law and at the same time implement their established programmes. Simply put, how will the legal arrangements be implemented in practice, if the proportion of the required Slovenian music will mean, for example, a hundred songs at the above intervals, in cases where the national radio stations are 40 songs in Slovenian and analog to commercial radio stations in a hundred cases, this is 20 songs or stations with programmes of special importance 25 songs. Given that we are Members of the Modern Centre Party, we are also the proponents and signatories to this law, of course we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u175	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u176	Your Honor! Before us is a novel of the Law on Media in Work, which discusses the share and time intervals of Slovenian music in Slovenian media. In fact, it is sad that during the important anniversary of our independent Slovenian path and our own statehood we need to legislate more Slovenian music, more fifth Slovenian words and more opportunities for Slovenian performers. More. We even need to take action against the play of legislation that pushes Slovenian music into the night with several aspects. Actually, it's a broader problem. It's a society problem as a whole. It is our attitude towards Slovenian knowledge and ability, it is our attitude towards our own culture and cultural heritage, and it is, after all, our relationship to everything that is Slovenian. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed amendments to the Media Act in early 2015 with the aim of increasing the share of Slovenian music in Slovenian media during the day. The abuse of existing legislation on music quotas and Slovenian music went so far as to play more than 90% of Slovenian music during the night. At that time, the coalition rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, and it has already reiterated the standing of this mandate – that the government is preparing a better and more systematic amendment. Then we waited almost a year for this better proposal. The National Assembly adopted amendments to the Media Law only on 28 January 2016. We were also detained in the Slovenian Democratic Party until the proposed amendments because a broader consensus had not previously been reached with Slovenian authors, creators and performers, and the proposal was complex and non-lifelike from the point of view of users. That the proposed law did leave too much confusion, confusion, and the veto of the State Council spoke. Consequently, on 1 March 2016 the National Assembly on the proposed amendments to the Media Law re-decisiond. Even before the letters on paper had dried well, the time for the implementation of the law was practically gone, the coalition was forced to correct its law or decision. Otherwise, this is much better than if the existing situation continued and determined by inadequacy and non-lifelessness made it impossible to implement the law. But so much for the systematic and quality of the coalition bill. Therefore, this time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support or oppose the proposed solutions. Also because of the fact and in view of the principle of clarity and determination of the law, to which much has been said this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u177	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u178	Mr President, honourable Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The latest amendment to the Media Act, which was reaffirmed by the National Assembly after the vote of the Council of State in March this year, received a lot of attention and comments from the interested public. Both during the preparation of the bill and throughout the legislative process, the provision governing the quota of Slovenian music has been given the highest attention. I must reiterate that the quotas with this novelty were not reintroduced or adopted, since they were introduced 15 years ago. The current level that Slovenia must be at least 20% of all daily music and 40% in the case of RTV Slovenia is already in the law in force since 2006. The last novel adopted by the National Assembly only changes the time interval at which it has to be satisfied with these quotas, so that Slovenian music will also be placed during the daytime of the broadcast and thus accessible to the audience even at the time when the radio is actually the most listening. Thus it was stipulated that 60 % of the Slovenian music quotas already in force must be broadcast at the time between 6 and 19 hours. The aim of this change was to prevent practice when certain radio houses met the quota for Slovenian music during the night. In view of the fact that the structure of radio programmes is different and that the scope of the speech programme is greater during the daytime period, some concerns have arisen that, in a newly defined way, the fulfilment of quotas could make it very difficult for some radios to comply with the quotas laid down. In the Desus Group, we have already announced at the time of the adoption of the latest amendment to the Media Law that we will approach changes to the law if necessary, as it is important that the legal provisions are actually enforceable and do not cause difficulties to operators. In the light of the comments received, a new law was tabled which further elaborates the time intervals at which Slovenian music must be played. The aim of the amendments is, on the one hand, to prevent quota abuse and to allow Slovenian music to spin at a time when it is available to a wider audience. On the other hand, the law is being amended to allow the implementation of the quota rules to be met even at a time when there is a greater volume of the speech programme on the radios. The novel sets out exactly three intervals at which Slovenian music shares must be achieved, with the aim of not interfering with the established speech programmes of each radio. This takes into account the significant difference between the programming scheme at night and daytime. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal of the law by a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u179	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats for her, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u180	Respected and respected! After voting on the Council of State on the amendments to the Media Law proposed by the Government, the coalition parties' parliamentary groups committed themselves, with the renewed support of the novel, to remedy the shortcomings of the legislative text. After the veto, a number of associations and individuals representing the interests of radio broadcasters, including our own, turned to some parliamentary groups. The reasons for the opposition to the bill were, in particular, noted by Radio Slovenije that we could not ignore as a responsible parliamentary group. With the proposed amendment of the law, which does not yet work, we eliminate the anomaly of the complex calculation of the required volume of Slovenian music in the daily broadcast time. Not only was the calculation of the required share of Slovenian music mathematically required, it was also substantively unclear. It has proved to be an open source of interpretation. With such a double text, the aim of the law would be to increase the protection and promotion of the Slovenian language and to preserve Slovenian, cultural and national identity in the performance of the mandatory share of Slovenian music, only difficult to reach. The text that is before us today does not interfere in any way with the basic purpose of the quota system or the extent to which Slovenian music is being played. This was introduced into the media law in 2001 and was completed in 2006. There are only three intervals per day, within which a certain proportion of Slovenia must also be diverted from all the music played. The proposal thus ensures a more even distribution of Slovenian music throughout the day. In 15 years, the implementation of the quota system was born to the extent that the required proportion of Slovenian music was played too many times in the night parts of the programme, when the listening to radio stations was significantly lower. As a result, this led to less popularity, the demand for Slovenian musicians' performances dropped. They're in a vicious circle. However, the assumption of their insubordination, which was constantly stressed by opponents of the quota system, was slowly becoming a structured reality. In recent weeks, we have heard a lot of evidence about the futility of this instrument in support of Slovenian music creativity with the quota system. But the fact is that he was strongly supported by those who were primarily assigned to him — the musicians. They add that this is the first step towards creating a more stimulating environment for Slovenian music creativity. As a result, it is offered to the legislator by means of a recast of legislation setting out the way in which copyright and related rights are managed. We wish that the debate, which also starts in the National Assembly, will lead to solutions that will enable the effective protection of copyright and related rights as well as Slovenian musicians to ensure that music creators have the right substance for their further creation. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore support the proposal for a new law on the media, which removes ambiguities before the good months of the adopted law. However, since the adoption of government law, in particular local radio stations, has also raised the issue of the sense of increasing the powers of the supervisory authority and consequently greater requirements for records, we reiterate our expectation that the Ministry of Culture will ensure a continuous evaluation of the implementation of new legal solutions, as we do not want good intentions to be born into an administrative problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u181	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking up with this day-to-day thing. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to public procurement laws and supplements. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of five Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members, with their first signed magi, is a group of 11 Members. Matthew Tonin, demanding that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u182	Honorable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Government! The new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 April this year, significantly deteriorated the position of subcontractors compared to the previous Public Procurement Act. In 2010, the Law already laid down the compulsory direct payment of subcontractors by the contracting authority. Thus, the situation in the area of payment discipline in our country has improved, the beach of bankruptcy of smaller companies has been stopped and the activities of independent entrepreneurs have ceased. The new law on payments by subcontractors shall only revert to the contractual relationship between the main contractor and the subcontractor. In other words, the law allows the subcontractor to pay directly from the contracting authority, but only if the subcontractor is immediately agreed with the main contractor if he is alert. We know examples from practice. Sub-contractors will have to comply with the requirements of the main contractor as a stronger contracting party in order to be able to get to work at all and the direct payment of the subcontractor by the contracting authority is certainly not in the interest of the main contractor. The main contractor will therefore condition the subcontractor's participation in a public contract by not requiring direct payment. Otherwise, the subcontractor will not get the deal. In Novi Slovenije, the proposed amendment of the law again provides the legal basis for compulsory direct payment to subcontractors. The contracting authority, the main contractor and the subcontractor will have to provide documentation enabling direct payment. The main contractor must empower the contracting authority in the contract to pay the subcontractor directly to the subcontractor on the basis of a certified account or situation by the main contractor. The main operator must also submit to his account or situation an account or situation of the subcontractor, which he has previously confirmed. However, the subcontractor is obliged to submit an agreement on the basis of which the contracting entity settles its claim to the principal contractor instead of the main contractor. The proposal also limits the possibility of replacing the subcontractor after signing the contract with him for the purpose of lowering the price in such a way as to require his written consent to replace the subcontractor. If the main contractor is able to unilaterally replace its subcontractor at any time, it shall never have real security and shall ensure that it remains the contracting party of the main contractor until the end of the contract. However, the practice so far in procurement procedures in the field of construction, services and goods, including installation or installation works, has also shown that there are often cases where the supplier or main contractor does not have any capacity to carry out the contract and all works are awarded at lower prices to subcontractors. Since such indirect auctions are often without property, subcontractors cannot reach their payment for work done or for services. Therefore, in Novi Slovenija we propose that the main contractor must carry out at least 20% of the procurement with its own capacities. This will prevent the execution of a public contract to operators, so-called engineering companies we have known recently in Slovenia and have only been brokers in the procurement process. Since payment non-discipline or insolvency in our country poses a major problem, it is our concern and duty to protect weaker customers in procurement procedures. In this case, it is mainly small and micro-enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, as we say, so says the government, that they are the pillar of our economy. I therefore appeal to you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support our proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law. These are entrepreneurs of small espionage who somehow want to compete in this market but do not get the chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u183	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! A good month and a half ago, the Public Procurement Act – ZJN 3 was prepared, taking into account a wide range of stakeholders. In preparing it, we have focused primarily on the purpose of this law, which is the economic and transparent use of public funds and the provision of competition. The main objective of the EU and our legislation is to allow all stakeholders free and equal access to contracting transactions. We have coordinated it with an extremely wide range of stakeholders, processed over four hundred pages of proposals and opinions and consulted with all interested economic associations and also aligned it with the general public. At the same time, we have also followed the view that the State must offer an opportunity to prevent abuses, but to enter into legal relations and infringements in proportion, where its measures must not lead to excessive bureaucracy or impose rules that are contrary to the European legal order. It should also be pointed out in the openings that JJN-3 also has an exceptional social note and, in particular, because of the prevention of social dumping and low prices, it has different tools, such as the obligation of operators to respect labour and social legislation and also provides for the termination of contracts in the event of a breach. The proceedings shall not involve entities which do not have a tax and social obligation to pay, have no forms of REK submitted or commit work-related offences and are legally convicted of a crime of infringement of workers' rights. In the drafting of the law, we have also taken into account, in the case of subcontractors, the opinion of the economy, the warnings of the profession and the problems of the judicial crack. The latter also point out that the regulation of direct payments by subcontractors is not necessary elsewhere, such as in a specific law such as the ZJN, since the Bond Code already regulates this and regulates the direct payment required in the Bond Code. However, many other measures are needed to prevent wage non-discipline. Addressing this issue mainly through public procurement has proved to be inadequate several times, and one of the positive measures, in our view, is the implementation of European law in the area of wage discipline. With regard to today's proposed amendments and the completion of the Public Procurement Act, the Government has adopted an opinion and does not support it in particular in view of the fact that the proposed Article 1 of the Act opposes the EU acquis, while at the same time acting on a proposal 2 of Article 2 of the Law, which does not, where necessary, interferes with the legal relationship, since it is the only one already regulated by the Bond Act. The government estimates that the current UNSCR is appropriate and does not deviate from the regulations of other EU Member States. In this context, the UNSC provides that direct payments by subcontractors are mandatory if required by the subcontractor. The law also requires the compulsory appointment of subcontractors in construction and services. In order to avoid potential abuse in business processes, in all contracts where the subcontractor does not require direct payment, the main contractor and the subcontractor will have to confirm receipt of payment by declaration. There is also a sanction for an offence where the perpetrator will be covered and also excluded from the procurement procedures for three or five years. However, if the subcontractor does not require direct payments under the ZJN-3, it may use all the institutes that are already provided by the Bond Code and also provide adequate support for payment, in contrast, which is particularly important in multi-annual contracts. Although the law is only valid for a good month and a half, it is noted that the contracting authorities already include warnings and instructions regarding subcontractors. This was also a key point of our ministry when we introduced the law in Slovenia, and we also agreed with interested associations that the implementation of the law should be monitored by all and that we should also be informed of possible complications to the contrary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u185	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group, the Christian Democrats, to her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u186	Good afternoon, colleagues. I also welcome the guests from Stuttgart! The Public Procurement Act, as one of the most important systemic laws, must also provide adequate protection and protection to the parties in addition to the transparency and cost-effectiveness of the use of public funds. Leaving the regulation of this area to contractual freedom alone is a solution that can be appropriate for countries with developed democracy, regulated payment discipline and effective justice and a related high level of legal certainty. Unfortunately, we are far from doing so in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije, when we passed the new Public Procurement Act last November, we pointed out the greatest shortcomings, namely insufficient and inadequate payment of subcontractors of the main contractor. Unfortunately, our arguments were not heard at the time despite many comments. Christian Democrats are convinced that the actual payment to subcontractors should not be left to the will or contractual relationship between the contractor and the subcontractor. Sub-contractors should be provided with additional legal protection in such a way as to ensure their direct payment by law. This must be the responsibility of the contracting authority and the main contractor. It is true that the newly established Public Procurement Act provides for direct payment to subcontractors, but – pay attention! Only when the subcontractor explicitly requests this, but we all know the cases and we know that in practice subcontractors do not do this most often because at the time of the tendering, they do everything they can to win the deal. In practice, it is also often the case that the main contractors replace the subcontractor after the contract is concluded for the purpose of lowering prices. They can do this now without any subcontractor’s consent, which is unacceptable to us. The interest of each main contractor selected as the most favourable provider in the procurement process is always a profit. He will therefore do his utmost to obtain a subcontractor at the lowest possible price, even after he has already concluded a contract with a previously selected subcontractor. Of course, because all of this makes it possible for him to have an existing law. Another reason that may convince you, colleagues and colleagues to support this law is that at least 20% of the procurement must be carried out by the main contractor with its own capacities. The main contractors now appear in large cases companies that do not have their own assets or employees, but are only intermediaries in these transactions. The Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 April this year, still allows for participation in public procurement procedures also for operators who do not have the capacity to carry out public procurement. When such an operator enters insolvency, subcontractors most often remain unpaid, and for many entrepreneurs, especially micro and small enterprises, it means dying on meals and ultimately their collapse. It also means the termination of the employment of a number of people who are employed by this subcontractor. As a result, the suppliers of this subcontractor also lose their payment. The question of responsibility in these cases remains so completely open and we are solving it in some way by means of this law. In view of all the above, in view of the bad examples of past practice, especially from the time of the construction of the motorway cross, when we have identified on specific occasions that subcontractors need to be further protected, we are proposing on such experiences to amend the new law on public procurement and we consider this novel to be necessary and more than justified, so of course we hope that you will support and adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u187	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u188	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The current Public Procurement Act entered into force in early April of this year. However, the amendments come with a proposal to supplement the Public Procurement Act as early as the second month after its entry into force, before the new law came into practice. It is crucial that they wish to introduce a provision enabling the subcontractor to pay directly to subcontractors. This is proposed in such a way that the contracting authority, the main contractor and the subcontractor must provide the relevant documentation for the execution of the direct payment. However, the second major amendment they propose is that the main operators are prevented from only brokering or from doing business to all those who do not have their own capacity to participate in the execution of the contract. In this respect, the proposal submitted by New Slovenia also provides that the main contractor must carry out at least 20% of the public procurement. At the time of consideration of the current Public Procurement Act, the most time in the debate was devoted to the content of how to properly regulate the obligation of the main contractor to pay the services provided and to sell the goods by subcontractors. Content-like provisions, as now contained in the current law, have been proposed by a committee hearing by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar said at the meeting of the Committee that they had a broad public debate during the drafting of the law, had countless meetings and coordinations with a number of interested associations and all of these meetings, and all of these meetings referred in the majority to the relationship between the main operators and subcontractors and to the regulation of their mutual relations. As a consequence, the applicable Public Procurement Act in Article 94 contains a compromise solution allowing subcontractors to request direct payment by the contracting authority or to decide that the principal contractor is responsible for their payment. Furthermore, the applicable Public Procurement Act already provides that the contracting authority may require the tenderer to perform the key tasks on his own. Restricting works in a precise percentage, as provided for in the proposal for a law submitted by NSI, would be contrary to the procurement directive. As stated, direct payments under the new Public Procurement Act are always mandatory as required by the subcontractor. In practice, this is done by empowering the main contractor in the contract to pay the subcontractor directly to the subcontractor on the basis of a certified account. However, the subcontractor must submit an agreement on the basis of which the contracting authority shall, instead of the tenderer, settle the payment to the subcontractor. The applicable Public Procurement Act already regulates direct payments to subcontractors and therefore this amendment, as proposed by Nova Slovenije, is unnecessary. In the case of public contracts where the subcontractor does not require direct payment, the main contractor and the subcontractor must confirm receipt of the payment by declaration. In cases where the subcontractor is not paid, the Public Procurement Act lays down a fine and a sanction for such operators. The sanctions are very severe, namely, the non-payments are disabled in running for public contracts for – pay attention! three years in the case of the procurement of goods and services or five years in the procurement of works. Therefore, the deterrent measure for non-payment is indeed very sharp and there is no doubt that it will be effective. In addition to the above, it should be pointed out that the legal theory already states that the mandatory implementation of direct payments to subcontractors in the Public Procurement Act is unnecessary, since this is already governed by the Bond Code in Article 631 under which direct payment is compulsory. This Article provides for the possibility for the subcontractor to request direct payment from the contracting authority from the amount still owed by the contracting authority to the principal operator at the actual time of the request. So it is also an appropriate instrument for all projects that last for years or are long-term. It should be noted that, in the past, parallel or double legal arrangements have led to confusion and individual abuses both in the Public Procurement Act and in the Bond Code. The current law on public procurement has put an end to this confusion. In view of all the above, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre cannot support the proposal of the law, since we consider it unnecessary, does not bring any additional solutions in the direction that the applicants declare or constitute a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u189	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The Public Procurement Act, which was adopted last November, and to remind me that this Act has also been requested by the Council of State for a re-decision but has been rejected, entered into force in April of this year. We have warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law should be based primarily on the smart use of public funds and that levers should be laid down to allow for greater efficiency, efficiency, transparency and the effectiveness of public procurement. We also pointed out that the law is at least too focused on procedures and their choice in our opinion, but not enough on the preparation of the tender documentation, which is most often the cancer of public procurement procedures. Public contracting authorities should be committed to responsible public procurement and adequately qualified to manage public procurement, not only to the execution of the award of the contract, but also to the procedures for monitoring the implementation of the award of the contract until its conclusion. Nor did it take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out the impreciseness of this law, in the sense that this law governs two or three areas of public procurement, which would mean both for contracting authorities and for operators at least at first and in the beginning the complicated and imprecise application of this law. In considering the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also highlighted the area of payment to subcontractors, which is significantly worse regulated under the new regime than it was under the old law. In our opinion, the contracting authority should ensure that all participants in the public procurement are paid, including all subcontractors. The law should also maintain a compulsory direct payment to subcontractors, or only improve this area, but not make it worse, as the adoption of this law undoubtedly did. The practice so far in public procurement procedures in the field of construction, services and goods, including installation and installation, has shown that often there are cases where the supplier or main contractor does not have any capacity to carry out the contract, so all works are awarded at the lowest prices to subcontractors. This is a kind of mediation that does not have any added value for the contracting authority, but offers the possibility of making a profit to the main operators only by interdicting the works. This is problematic from the point of view of responsibility. Such intermediary companies are often without property which prevents subcontractors from getting paid for their work even in cases where such intermediary company enforces a guarantee claim for the performance of the work or delivery of the goods to subcontractors. Long-term legal proceedings and the possibilities for the transfer of funds from such an intermediary company make it impossible for subcontractors to pay, although they may later be partially or fully successful in court proceedings. It is therefore necessary to limit the range of entities which may be involved in the procurement procedures in the field of construction to those entities which have at least a few of their own capacities for the performance of the contract, in particular at least 20 % of the procurement. Such restrictions should also apply to cases of all companies in the case of a group of economic operators who have applied as a group of entities. Of course, clean intermediary companies are supposed to be excluded from this circle. The amendment of this Act also seeks to introduce a mandatory direct payment to subcontractors by the contracting authority and, in this regard, the obligations of the contracting authority of the main contractor and the subcontractor to submit the relevant documentation enabling such direct payment. The main contractor should already have, at the time of signature, a contract for the execution of a contract with the contracting authority to conclude all contracts with subcontractors and should submit them to the contracting authority within five days. However, should there be a replacement of the subcontractor during the execution of the contract, the main contractor should submit the contract to the contracting authority within five days. In order to prevent the possibility of sub-contracting, the possibility of replacing the subcontractor in order to reduce the contractual value of supplies of goods or services of the subcontractor without its written consent would thus be limited. In our view, it is essential to prevent the continuation of bad practices when the subcontractor is already preparing for the execution of works or supplies of goods, but the main contractor requires continued cooperation in the implementation of the contract with an additional price reduction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting the existing law last November, we agreed with all the comments and proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which pointed out all these shortcomings and traps. However, no comment was taken into account by the interested profession or opposition. Otherwise, it is nothing new, for the authorities of the profession and the opposition do not take into account so much in any field. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u191	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u192	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government, allow me to present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Let me start by reminding you that last November the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a completely new law on public procurement. At the time of the consideration of that law, we have pointed out in the DeSUS Group that it is an extremely important law where interests cross on one side of operators selling their goods or services and on the other side of the country that must ensure that public procurement is transparent, cost-effective and efficient. It should be pointed out that in Slovenia they spend €3.7 a year on public money. Ambassadors and Members of the New Slovenia Group also rushed this time by amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. The proposal was tabled only 22 days after the introduction of the public procurement novel. In November the law was adopted, for it came into force on 1 April this year. Your Honor! At the time of the adoption of the law, and even after the veto of the Council of State, on the proposal of the law, we also discussed in the parliamentary group much about this particular work, which we have today again on the table. Finally, it maintained the view that the Public Procurement Act does not regulate the voluntary payment of subcontractors, but that the execution of direct payments to subcontractors is still mandatory for services and construction if the subcontractor so requires. In other cases where the subcontractor does not require a direct payment, the contracting authority will have to require that the main contractor and the subcontractor confirm the treatment of all obligations by a declaration. If the contracting authority does not receive this declaration or is it unrealistic, it is an offence under the law, where such an operator, in addition to the fine, will be excluded from the procurement procedures for three years, to which the proposer of the amendments we have on the parliamentary bench obviously forgets. The law therefore provides for direct payments, while at the same time providing sufficient guarantees not to give rise to abuse. On the other hand, it does not regulate the relationship where it is not necessary because it is governed by bond legislation. As we have already said when adopting the new Public Procurement Act in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that this is an extremely large problem in the field of public procurement, as has already been demonstrated by the practice of spending public money. Nevertheless, we conclude that it is necessary for a law that entered into force only a month ago to give it the opportunity to live in a practice on which it will be evident whether the law will have to be amended or not. On the basis of the proposal made in the Desus Group for Members and Members of New Slovenia, we will not support it, so we do not think that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u193	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats for her, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u194	Dear, President, distinguished colleagues, dear colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we end with a debate on the novelty of the Public Procurement Act. It is therefore an act which we reconfirmed in the National Council after the veto in the State Council in November 2015 and which entered into force on 1 May or April 2016. The applicants assess that the new Public Procurement Act is inadequate in the work relating to the direct payment of subcontractors in public procurement procedures. They also believe that there is a step back in 2010 in the area of the protection of subcontractors. In their view, it would be correct if the compulsory direct payment to subcontractors continued. However, it must be said that the legislation between 2010 and 2016 regulated the payment to subcontractors as mandatory in all cases. Unfortunately, in practice, operators and subcontractors submitted various declarations and contracts to the contracting authorities during the implementation phase of the contract, suggesting that the subcontractor had already received an advance for its work or submitted to the contracting authority cessium or a signatory contracts in accordance with the Bond Act, which the contracting authority had to comply with. In particular, in the case of advances, contracting authorities in practice were often unable to comply with legal provisions that direct payments to subcontractors were compulsory. In short, the well-intentioned arrangement introduced for the best purpose and for the insurance of subcontractors was, in reality, a major administrative obstacle, which had also been removed at the request of subcontractors. In the Social Democrats' Group, we had a number of questions in the process of adopting the JJN-3 and also concerns related to payments and the relationship between operators and subcontractors and, on the other hand, with the contracting authority. On the part of the Government, we received answers and ensured that the government proposals and the solutions adopted in 81st, 94th, 112th Article are appropriate. The monitoring of their implementation will certainly be the priority of the JJN-3 proposalr, the government or the competent department. It should also be pointed out that the new law also gives all subcontractors who wish to do so the possibility of direct payment by the contracting authority if they attach a simple declaration upon application. Any subcontractor wishing direct payment may therefore request and obtain it. When we talk about public procurement, we usually associate it with abuse, with the non-transparent outflow of public money into private pockets, in fact, public procurement is defined as the greatest risk of corruption. At the same time, we are reminded of the stories of unpaid subcontractors and the unfortunate stories of business and espionage owners when, as subcontractors, as a rule, they were left without the means to pay off their obligations to their employees as subcontractors. But it is important to know that public procurement is only part of such business. If the contracting entity is a private entity, the Public Procurement Act does not apply and there is a risk of payment of subcontractors. So we have to solve the problem in its entirety. Slovenia is extremely weak in only one area on all the competitiveness scales, and this is in the area of legal certainty for those who wish to enforce a contractual provision or to receive a timely payment for the goods or services supplied. This is not only true in cases where the contracting authority is bound by public procurement, so we need to go elsewhere – in general bond legislation. And right here, we need to make it possible for anyone who has done business by order of another to receive a fair payment for him. In the case of public procurement, we also find that, if I may put it this way, it is a system of built-in payment non-discipline and, last but not least, it is an greed for high profits in procurement procedures. Unfortunately, this is the case in Slovenia and certainly elsewhere in the European Union; otherwise, we do not see why we should also be engaged at EU level in procurement reform. At the same time, it should be stressed that a lot of public procurement involves European funds. In other countries, these operators are paid substantially earlier than in Slovenia. The reason for this is our administratively complex system of drawing on European funds. Improvements in this area would certainly mean that payments to operators and their subcontractors would be more timely. It concludes that the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is appropriate for further consideration, so we will not support it. However, we propose to the Government and all Members and Members that we work together to address problems that will truly improve the situation of subcontractors. It is said that increasing legal certainty and speed in the implementation of contractual provisions and faster payment of operators and subcontractors when European funds are involved. However, we want the country to launch an investment cycle that will give new jobs, increase GDP and reduce the pressure on the country's social transfers, which tend to increase at a higher level of unemployment, despite the pressures on the budget within the framework of its ability and the capture of the fiscal rule. Of course, they mean that all participants in all stages of public procurement act transparently and responsibly, especially in the interest of citizens and citizens, to obtain optimal public services and optimal public infrastructure for spent public resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u195	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you. A third, a completely new law on public procurement was passed last November. At the time of its adoption in the United Left, we have warned that the objectives of the bill are good, but that the text of the law itself does not reflect in any way. If, for example, the explanation stated that the objective of the proposal is to move away from the lowest price as the basic criterion for selecting an operator, it is in the text itself that this can be done. If the objectives of the proposal stated that new public procurement would also take into account environmental aspects and aspects of respect for workers' rights, the law states that this can be done. And this can be written practically in every novelty introduced by the law. The aim of the law was also to exclude from the procurement procedures all those companies that do not pay contributions and taxes that reduce workers' rights are inequitable, have leadership that has been convicted of crimes or have proven to be extremely poor in past projects. But also here, the law provides for a whole bunch of exceptions that allow business with such companies. The same solution has also been established in the field of transparency. The fact is that non-transparent is one of the biggest problems of public procurement in low-value contracts. One of the objectives of the law was thus to ensure equal transparency. But here too, the word "may" is found in the provision instead of the mandatory public publication. As a result of these cases, we warned the United Left that the law was written in such a way that it could be misused. With a bunch of proposed amendments, we wanted to remedy all these shortcomings, but as usual, the coalition did not support any of these amendments. One of the proposed additions also referred to the area of subcontractors to which we are dealing with the novel today. The fact is, we have a lot of problems in the field of public procurement in Slovenia. There is almost no major project in which there is no suspicion of corruption and which has not been conducted in a non-transparent way, a project where there has been no rule-making. Almost always, behind each major project, unpaid subcontractors and unpaid workers remain, while on the other hand, there is a series of annexes, supplements and additional payments which increase the final value to 200 %. We are confident that those responsible could be found if there was a real will to do so. Another fact that clearly points to the importance of public procurement is numbers. At the annual level, €3.7 billion is spent through public procurement. We're talking 9.8% of gross domestic product. Exactly how much the state overpays for individual services and goods and how much public money flows into private pockets in non-transparent procedures, we still don't know. The number that appears most often in the public eye is about one billion. There are therefore one billion reasons for improvement. As has already been said, most of the improvements we have proposed at the time of the adoption of the law have been rejected without a specific explanation. As has already been said, the novel before us today refers only to one of the many problems of public procurement. The problem of payments by subcontractors is exposed to almost every major project in our country, and at the time of consideration of the basic law, a number of three different amendments have been tabled to the article governing this area. None of them were acceptable to the coalition. The final proposal also included the veto of the State Council. It was also tabled because of inappropriate regulation of this issue, and without particular consideration by the coalition, the law was confirmed, despite all warnings and concerns. So today, the coalition has a new opportunity to solve one of the existing problems. But as we have seen more than once in this term, the opposition novel before us is unlikely to survive the first hearing. The government does not support it and, as usual, the coalition will most likely follow its opinion without personal reflection. In the United Left, we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. We will support him because we are convinced that something needs to be changed in this area. In addition to the problems of subcontractors, we see another major problem in the existing regulation, which this novel does not solve. In accordance with the arrangements in force, the subcontractor may request direct payment for the work performed. It is true that this is not a legal requirement, but only the possibility that there is at least this for subcontractors — an option. However, if we look at the arrangements for subcontractors of these subcontractors, we can see that there is no such possibility. In practice, we are thus witnessing cases, and there are few when the contract is awarded by works to subcontractors and the subcontractors continue to submit part of the contract to their subcontractors. And those who actually do the work and who do not receive the payment in the end do not benefit from any special protection. The law provides that the contracting authority in the tender may provide that these obligations also apply to all subcontractors in the subcontracting chain. Therefore, the subcontractor may request direct payment for the services provided and the subcontractor shall have this option only if the contracting authority has already determined this in the tendering documentation itself. It is clear from this that in the law on public procurement each solution can be found. Any positive change can have its own. Any undertaking, right or requirement for transparency may also have its own. In practice, this means that legislation can be played out that the final value of the project can be increased by 200 %, that subcontractors can remain unpaid, that workers can be left without pay, that procedures can be untransparent and that the responsible can remain unpunished. We cannot agree with this arrangement in the United Left. The novel we are dealing with today solves one of the problems listed above. But with the amendments in the next stage of treatment, we could save some more. It's a coalition that can decide to solve problems. And it depends on the coalition whether the law will continue to be written in such a way that it is easily abused and easily abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u197	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, representative of the proposed law, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u198	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have seen several times this week how we can work with the United Left if I make a little joke, but this is a really good illustration when looking for solutions, not just opportunism or opposition and so on. I think that this session is a good indicator of how we go over ideological obstacles, even though someone or sometimes most people tell us exactly that. We have a law on public procurement ahead of us. In Novi Slovenije we have invested it for one reason in particular. Because we're worried about subcontractors because, as I said before, we're worried about subcontractors' payments. The Public Procurement Act is always one of the most important systemic laws, both in terms of the economy and in terms of public finances. Some information about that. According to the Ministry of Finance, the total annual value of all public contracts is around €4 billion. That's almost half of our annual budget. For example, the share of public procurement in gross domestic product has also been steadily increasing since 2010. From the point of view of ensuring the economy and the competitiveness of economic facilities, it is therefore important that public procurement rules allow economic operators to access public procurement under equal conditions. The existing legislation, which is also pointed out by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, makes this impossible. New Slovenia has tabled proposals for a law, namely three main features, and the main objective and purpose of the law is to protect and protect subcontractors effectively. Why? See, now that we can weigh, we can weigh between whether there is a better and more effective direct payment of subcontractors, it is said that such legislation as New Slovenia proposes, such legislation as we have had since 2010 and such legislation as they have in Austria, Germany, or whether it is better legislation adopted by the Government in November and in force since 1. On the 4th of this year, to take risks with certain commitments and then continue to talk about the Bond Code to protect us. The bond code was also in force until 2010, and a number of small businesses have collapsed, due to the failure to pay for the family tragedy. And remember who the biggest violators of public procurement were. Just the state. Dars, the Moorish Highway. Who's not getting paid? Who didn't follow the rules? It's a state-owned company. Opera. On the day of the opening of the Opera, a cultural event, subcontractors protested that they had not received the money. The cones. For example, in Crassus, Aluminum Komen was destroyed because the country was the one who did not stick to the agreements. What a bond code! And even if we're talking about the Bond Code, do you know, before we launch court mills, lawsuits and so on, this company that demands money back, this little espionage is failing because it needs financial resources to survive or to pay its subcontractors back in the chain, suppliers. Even in construction, there have been tragedies here in the past, and we have witnessed them ourselves. However, if Pahor’s government did something good in 2010, it certainly did well to amend this legislation, the Public Procurement Act, to amend this legislation and to allow direct payment to subcontractors. Since then, such a failure to pay subcontractors by the Public Procurement Act has somehow ended. Therefore, the main novelty, to emphasise this, is a compulsory direct payment to the subcontractor by the contracting authority. Another time. It is a very good thing that we limit the possibility of replacing the subcontractor after signing the contract with him by lowering the price in a way that requires his written consent to replace the subcontractor. I don't really see any issue here, so we don't give it up together, but we're gonna secure it. And the third time. The main contractor must carry out a certain part of the contract with its own capacities, at least 20 %. Today we have so-called engineering companies, large and construction companies are essentially having only one office, some employees or not and are running for public tender, getting jobs and then moving on. When these companies fall into insolvency, they fail. Who's last in the chain that stays unpaid? Those little espies as subcontractors. We have therefore recorded at least 20% that it has its own capacity. Yes, those who, for example, have construction machines, mixers, shovels, anything to get you a job on a public invitation. No, but then the office will be building a highway. Okay. Because he's still looking for the lowest price. It is said that this is the case for intermediary companies, and in Novi Slovenije we wrote this as the third point. When we decide on this law further in this debate, let us weigh what is more protective of subcontractors, or whether we have a direct payment obligation without any commitments and possibly without any risks, without someone having to cash in the Bond Code, I think it is 94. Article, because then someone gets in trouble. And before he gets the lawsuit, he's already three times in between, and the rest of them in the chain are still unpaid. The proposal for amendments to the New Slovenia Act was also supported by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. You could've gotten that on the parliamentary bench. They write as follows: The new applicable Public Procurement Act, i.e. ZJN-3, still provides for direct payments to subcontractors to some extent, but only when the subcontractor explicitly requires it. And this is where I'm gonna stop. If the subcontractor is subject to existing legislation that requires direct payment at the outset of the procedure, something may happen that subcontractor will not be awarded a contract. He won't choose him. Because it's on the weak side. Speculators who receive a public order do not choose such an individual. This is the same as you going to talk to a bank for credit – who sets the terms? Stronger. Bank. Not us. We sign. And so it is in this case. For this reason, small espouses – I apologize for saying so, little espouses, but those who would like to apply would like to submit to receive a direct payment, not to come along. And also the Chamber of Commerce and Industry writes here further that in view of the well-known situation on the market, particularly in construction, it is clear that it is a formalistic provision, so to speak, a dead letter on paper. So, I want, as we did when we adopted the previous amendment of the law, with the experts from the Ministry, which I remember very well, we had a very good discussion in November, and I announced at that time that New Slovenia would insist on these demands, in order to make a direct payment, mainly because of the fact that we will no longer have the tragedy that has happened to us until 2010, and consequently the collapse of small businesses. Therefore, let us really consider in this debate what is the greatest assurance that subcontractors do not remain unpaid.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, let the mag be prepared. Dušan Verbich and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. First of all, let me touch on the proposal that discusses the critical share of the contractor, saying 20%, which must be determined or how much they must implement. The proposer says this is a very common practice. Today, in this debate, it bothers me not to hear any particular number from the United Left, which has so vehemently talked about many corruptions, tragedies, deaths. However, we do not hear one specific figure that would talk about what the proposer and some opposition Members are talking about today. The fact is that this law also applies to one principle based on European law. It's a principle of non-restriction. We have transposed two Directives of the European Union, Directive 2014/24 and Directive 2014/25, which explicitly states that there is no restriction. If it is a restriction, it can only be qualitative but not numerical. This means that we cannot accept a percentage like the one proposed by the proposer because it is contrary to European law. In this regard, our country has also been invited by the European Commission in one case, a specific case, and has also warned us that Slovenia has been warned and called for clarification of a specific public contract and said to the European Commission: "Please note also that the exception to the principle of non-limitation of subcontractor contracts under the new Public Procurement Directive is clearly qualitative and not quantitative in nature." In this regard, the European Court of Justice has also said twice that public procurement cannot be restricted numerically. So much for that. As far as the subcontractor system is concerned. Today you yourself have said or your colleague has said that the role of the Public Procurement Act is to establish and ensure transparency in the use of public money, that it does not go into a private pocket, and on the other hand the role of this contracting authority is not to leave the subcontractor to the civil contract, but to provide him with legal protection and legal guarantees. I say so. It is still the function of the law to control the use of public money. Legal guarantees are provided. Of course, they are not entirely in this law, although we have a lot of exceptions compared to the comparative arrangement and I will also say they are regulated in other laws. It has also been said that it is interesting that you have a very good understanding of these matters with the United Left. Today, maybe I understand why. Yesterday, in a speech we had on the radio, I heard from a colleague from the United Left, it was a matter of regulating the penal code that the profession didn't matter. We have nothing to respect, but we are the legislative body, we are politicians, and we can regulate what we want and what we want. So the profession doesn't matter here. Maybe that's how you two get along with each other, because we'd be able to get everything into this marriage. We'd have gotten everyone inside. If we look at it, we handle the social note, we regulate the payments of subcontractors, and in short, we'll bring them all in. But the point is, if we look at someone's making a public order, he's actually entering a civil relationship. When the Ministry enters into a relationship with someone, he's not a government authority, he's a civil contract. Someone who, I don't know, regulates Oprah, the Ministry of Culture has to take care of this logic completely. Not the courts, not those who are competent, but, for example, those who built Oprah, the real Minister of Culture has to make sure that subcontractors are paid to be subcontractors. We can give protection and health at work, we can give a thousand more things. But that's why I'm saying it doesn't matter where or how, whether we respect the real thing or not. So according to this logic, we can put everything in here, and the Ministry of Culture, which will regulate Oprah, will have to take care of a thousand other things that are not its fundamental competence. That's what we're trying to tell you. Not that we don't want to protect subcontractors. In fact, when you say comparative arrangements, this is not true, this comparative arrangement is the same as with us as with the Bond Code. Sub-contractors shall have a direct request. But a direct request means a direct request If you read Article 631, it means that the subcontractor may at any time require that the sub-contractor be paid from the amount that is prudent for the main operator. [[…]] Even if it doesn't sign up, as it's now mandatory. If checked in at the beginning, then it's mandatory for the person who gave the order. So you're saying that it's messy with us now, that it's been better arranged before. True, we have had a lot of experiments in this law, but all of them were somehow partial and there were no real effects on the economy in fact. The regulation before 2010 claimed that the subcontractors had made a declaration that they had been paid. And in practice it really happened that many times they made a statement because they even got the job, as you say. But is this a problem, for example, a cultural ministry that builds an opera or a Ministry of Health that builds a clinical center? Does he regulate the relationship between these persons? This ministry entered into a civil relationship with a civil contract. He has no relationship with the governing body. It was then indeed regulated from 2010 to 2016, but when this law was coordinated with those involved in the coordination, it was found that, in fact, during this period, the contracting party was often unable to implement this provision, since it had many declarations and contracts submitted to receive advances or cession contracts, asignatory contracts, etc. In fact, subcontractors did not wish to have a direct payment, but this obligation was laid down in the law. So that fundamental principle, which is in civil law out of positiveness, has been completely overtaken by bond law. And they didn’t want to, because they might have paid off in some other way, whether they had taken care of themselves or in any other way. That's why it happened. However, that provision remained. Since we have another security guard, she's left to sign in. And if not notified, legal protection has many other protections in the bond code, but sanctions and the possibility of punishment have also been added. Therefore, those who do not pay their subcontractor have the opportunity to notify the subcontractor to the proceedings and will be fined and also fined by the parties, which is a three-year impossibility to participate in a public contract or for five years when it comes to investments and three years at the expense of goods and services. So that's a protection, too. There is a sanction for those who will not do so. Like I said before, legal guarantees. The State is obliged to provide legal guarantees. I fully agree here. And he provides them. Like I said, not just Article 631 of the Bond Code. Under the Bond Code, there are many other possibilities under which legal protection is provided. We also have the Enforcement and Insurance Act. That means we don't have to go to court. It's not a court of law. You wave with your hand, but look, we have a legal order. We have a legal order. On the basis of the authentic instrument, the invoice goes directly to enforcement. But this is the work of the court, this is not the work of the one who gave the order. We also have the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments. So we have signed a European act, we have agreed with them and we have gathered into our law, and we have a great deal of protection in this area. In addition, we introduced a social note into this law because it wanted to protect workers. They were not only subcontractors, but they were also subcontractors. Someone who does not respect labour, social, environmental legislation may cancel the contract. In addition, entities that do not have all tax, social obligations over 50 euros and other non-monetary tax liabilities are excluded from the procedure, will not have R & D forms and so on. Request for the exclusion of tenderers and subcontractors who commit a work-related offence twice. So there are many safeguards given in this law, and the fact is that we will not settle business culture with public orders. It'll have to be arranged somewhere else. And just one more thing. In the SDS position, it was said that this law is already imprecise, that it represents a great deal of administrative burden for those who applied for the contract. So we want to invest, but who's going to invest if we put extra pressure on his procedures in this way? It was said earlier that there was no traffic outside our door as far as foreigners were concerned. A foreigner has different orders abroad than we have, and will not come from this address, because we are entering into the law and direct implementation of a lot of administrative obstacles, which would also bring additional payments to subcontractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer, please choose a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I thank Mrs Kozlovich for this debate because she wanted to present her arguments and, in fact, I agree with the arguments. I don't see any problem at all, even from the point of view of ensuring the rule of law. I believe in the rule of law, I want to believe it, I am trying to believe it, and I am trying to improve the rule of law as such. If we don't believe in the rule of law ourselves, then it's all for nothing. Business culture in Slovenia or in other countries of the European Union is also very different, certainly. But, you know, on behalf of the rule of law, on behalf of those same laws that you listed, and the Bond Code, the subcontractors have been paid in the past. And once again, not to direct you in the debate, but to weigh two aspects. The first aspect of what is better for subcontractors, direct payment or on behalf of the rule of law, and we already know experience in the past. That's all we got.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u203	As we say, we continue with the magic. To the soul of Verbich, prepare the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, fellow Members, the rest of you present, a very nice greeting! I'm just gonna start with some questions about the proposer. Why the amendment of the law has been tabled practically after only one month, when no analysis has been made at all, but only in relation to what is the greatest concern of the proposer, namely the subcontractor. It's perfectly legitimate. I believe that it is most likely that this continuation of the story in the adoption of the Public Procurement Act 3 where the same attempt was made, with the same content also through the State Council. It's perfectly legitimate. I expect responsibly, as far as the applicants are concerned, that they will really, once a law has been in force, with some substantial arguments go into the legislative process, and in particular from those environments that have been in this national assembly for a long time. Next question that's really bugging me. The explanatory notes present and reasoned cases of countries not related at all to the German legal order, but here are France, Italy, Spain. I mention this because their legal order is quite different. It is significant for Slovenia to sum up the German legal order, Germany, Austria. And given that the applicants in other cases also very competently compare with Germany and Austria, when we know that we literally have the Company Act. We have the Austrian Bond Code, and I would rightly expect, including with regard to today's topic, that we have a reference to how these two countries have a regulated area of the Public Procurement Act. If I finish this part, I modestly hope to say that this is literally the address of my constituents and the sublime amendment of a law. Now I'm going to the content itself. I personally appreciate that this law is good. And I'm also going to try to explain briefly why I'm making that assessment. We must be aware that this law, which we have advocated and adopted a few months ago in this National Assembly, means the transposition of two directives, as the colleague has already stated. It has been seen in some way, not only here, which is perfectly legitimate, including professional and lay-off public, with this law the transposition of both directives has been decided by Slovenia in particular to copy these Directives. And that's true. However, the argument was clear, particularly in this direction, that the more a copy of the directive is generally without interference with certain local interests, the more any participant is protected in some further processes. And I defended it myself. The reason I think this marriage is good is because of what's new. The news that we have implied in this law, and I think that this is also linked to subcontractors, is the informationisation of procedures, which means that this informationisation of procedures will contribute to greater transparency of public procurement as well as to the reduction of corruption. They must not forget what happened in public procurement procedures in the construction of motorways, where literally some documents disappeared in one way or another. For this reason, I believe that this will be disabled in these procedures. As far as subcontractors are concerned, the Public Procurement Act 3 follows both directives. What the two Directives are somehow on the way to Member States in implementation is practically two-way. On the one hand, it follows that respect for the environmental, social and labour aspects is required. Here we simply have to say that we have followed this in this law. However, this second aspect, which is equally important, means easier access to small and medium-sized enterprises through these procedures. If we take a closer look at the law, this is section 94 of the Public Procurement Act. When we spoke months ago and today is the same debate and I think it is right that we should say something very clearly in this case, too, which is essential. And even in these so-called presentations, it was felt that we might care a little less about the content of the law. The Public Procurement Act is a law. I'm sorry. We have to face it. The procedure governing the selection of operators shall be for construction, services and suppliers of goods. This means that this law regulates procedural rules for choice. But whether we want to know it or not, by means of the transposition of directives and the Public Procurement Act-3 this has been a fundamental guide. The fact is that the contracting authority is not in any legal relationship with the subcontractor. I would not repeat here a colleague who has already reasoned because these two entities are not in a contractual relationship. Our bond code is also based on the fact that the contracting authority is fully in line with the solely chosen main contractor. I personally believe that they are also very aware of this on the proposer's side. What needs to be mentioned is also the following. All those who appear in the procurement process in any way, and the tenderers in general, are aware of the subcontractor's two key issues, which are very clearly and explicitly recorded in the Public Procurement Act-3. For the first time, subcontractors should agree on direct payments. In this case, you will be paid directly. I am talking about the fact that the parties have previously been well aware of this, which appear in such and different forms. Secondly, it will have to be demonstrated that they have paid, all knowing that, if they do not do so, the traces, as already mentioned in the presentation, of money sanctions and, more importantly and most painfully, those performing on the market in respect of this service do not have the possibility of participating in tenders in the general questions of the three-year offer and in construction matters for five years. I believe that the directives are based on, and it would be difficult to accept here the argument that subcontractors are not sufficiently taken care of by these so-called legal safeguards. But it's true that on the market sometimes it turns out differently. And if I come back a little bit. After the completion of the procurement procedure, the contracting authority and the successful tenderer shall conclude the contract. And that's what I said in the first place, that it's definitely just a contractual relationship between the two of them. There is a legal relationship that is governed by bond rules or by law. It is said that the relationship between the main contractor and the subcontractor is a completely separate relationship. And we have to face it. The fact is, if I have the data, and I allow the possibility, perhaps the representatives of the executive branch of the authority will correct me, no EU member will regulate compulsory direct payments to subcontractors. However, they are rare, which have been regulated in this way, as we have regulated such a contractual relationship in the Public Procurement Act-3. Thus, this Public Procurement Act, which is now in force, does not regulate voluntary payments to subcontractors, but is regulated through direct payments when agreed upon. Otherwise, what I have just mentioned is that the contracting authority should be informed by both the main contractor and the subcontractor that all mutual obligations have been paid. If this is not done, the sanctions that we have discussed are envisaged. And now just a few more words concerning the proposer who compared and cited a comparative legal regime. Initially, I have mentioned something about the fact that I really miss a comparison in such matters with the countries in which we are also summarizing that so-called economic legal area. But we can still look at what comparisons between France, Belgium and Spain mean. The fact is that this comparative analysis literally shows that in these countries it is very similar or almost identical to what we have in the Public Procurement Act-3, which means that the arrangements for payments by subcontractors are in the exclusive domain of contract and civil law, but not the so-called procurement work, which we are now discussing under our Public Procurement Act-3. This means that, comparatively speaking, these countries have in particular a provision in their national legislation, which the colleague has already mentioned and defined and we also know it in our legal order, which is a direct request. And even in these countries, those subcontractors who are not otherwise paid by the main contractor have the opportunity to recover from the contracting authority in the remaining part when they have not yet paid the main contractor. We have the same arrangement in our bond law. I would not quote here the articles, but I hope to state that in this work somehow the proposer of this procedure, by his explanation, is somewhat misleading. I believe that such matters, even as regards the protection of subcontractors as important groups in this market segment, cannot be determined and found so quickly after one month and then in a position without any analysis, even as this law has indeed followed the transposition of directives for the protection of all. I'd end up at this point. I do not think that the proposal is appropriate for a follow-up procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you, too. Mrs. Violeta Tomic wants a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would ask you to stop speaking behind his back in the future when a Member is not in the debate room, because this Member cannot defend himself. Colleague Kozlovich made in my absence unrealistic claims, i.e. concerning yesterday's interview at the Green Wave, where she said that the profession was not important. Certainly not, I said that it takes political will to change laws and that Parliament is a legislative body. Just as I didn't want to interfere yesterday when my colleague Zorčič said that New Slovenia should come to them and then they would help them prepare the law, because it's not dark. Today we're obviously talking about the Public Procurement Act, but we're going to SMC because they have the most experts and the whole machine behind them. And what did we experience? We worked together on the marriage, but when the government reached out, they retreated. Once again, Parliament is a legislative body. However, if we refer to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, let me mention just one more thing when they adopted the Law on Environmental Protection – ZVO 1 received the veto of the State Council, a completely negative opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the profession opposed when we were talking about professions, and employers opposed it, but the coalition accepted it peacefully. Why do SMC Members have to treat all of us so that we are guilty if we only question their decisions? Since she talked about animal torture in the Public Procurement Act and because she spoke in my absence, I suggest you give her a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. And I'm going to propose to Mr. Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, to answer you, we'll have a chance to hear from you immediately. Here you go, Mrs. Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u209	Replo wanted Mrs. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u210	No, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u211	Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u212	I've got procedural too. I'm sorry if anyone recognized himself, I didn't talk about any names. If anyone recognized himself, that's his business. But I would also suggest a reminder to the lady, because she was also talking about a person who is not currently in the room, and then we should use the criteria for all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you, too. And I suggest we move on. I give the word "magic." Bojani Muršič, get Mr. Simon Zajc ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Public procurement is an important part of economic growth and is one of the key levers of public financial expenditure. Their scope and value are influenced by a number of factors, both economic, social and social. Of course they're changing. We want to achieve competitiveness, to prevent inequalities between providers. The law, which we adopted in November and with a veto then confirmed it, brings some good news, but I must say that this law, which the proposer has on the table today, has quite a few positive things. I must say that, otherwise, it follows the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which essentially points to payments to subcontractors. The proposal indicates by the applicant that the contractor should carry out at least 20% of the work with its own staff. I have to say, I can't argue here. Why? For this reason, because I have met several times on my career in the projects I carried out with engineering companies. It was a million-dollar project and they had only one employee. You're wondering how this contractor is going to get such a big public contract. And of course, we had a bunch of problems, and, thank God, they got off well. But as project leader, I have to say that it cost me a lot of energy to get all these things through. I must say here that although the directive opposes this restriction and imposes only a qualitative restriction, I would suggest that we consider the qualitative restriction and the introduction of this into the law. Furthermore, it would focus on compulsory payments to subcontractors. I have before 2010 experience in public procurement and after 2010. And what happened to me before 2010? Of course, public procurement, the contracting entity does everything to select the best, most favourable bidder in the public sector, we know how this is going, the lowest price per line of least resistance. Of course, I take full responsibility for this, too, but in the end, we simply did not deal with the criteria and criteria because there was no time. This is impossible for five employees in the municipal administration. You choose the best bidder, of course, the subcontractors were listed, and what happened? Of course, the subcontractors were not paid. The Ministry states that, while it is possible to make a direct claim to the contracting authority under the bond law. But we paid for all the situations to the principal. Then where do we pay the subcontractor? Again, I was in an unsustainable situation, what to do, how to solve the situation. That's why I think it's a restriction that you actually enter into a contract and then also directly pay the subcontractor, very meaningful and on the spot. If I keep going. After 2010, when this article was introduced, there was a substantial number of administrative work, but I must tell you that it was much easier for me to have a heart condition, because subcontractors did not call me and asked for payment because they were on the dog, so I will say domestically. It just wasn't. In my debate in November, I pointed out this, I also supported the amendments, but I finally confirmed the Public Procurement Act-3 because I thought certain solutions were very meaningful. Now we have this law on the table, which, I must say, is very meaningful in terms of the practice I have faced. Contractors, tenderers and subcontractors are regulated by the Bond Code, but I must say that this path is too long for subcontractors. As we have heard several times in the debates today, I know that subcontractors simply have to close their plants because they simply do not have where to pay for all these things. They had to get the material, do the work, pay their contractors, and they didn't get the money from the contracting authority. The contracting entity is certainly, and we want to say it or not, and as a result, it is also responsible for the subcontractors being paid. The essence of all of this is that this law makes at least sense to me, and I think it is also a period when we had a direct payment entered into the law in 2010-2016 that makes sense. In fact, payment discipline has improved significantly in this way, and there have been significantly fewer problems, so it seems to me that we went with this Public Procurement Act-3 after my step back. I therefore certainly support this proposal, but it is true that certain things should still be regulated by amendments or in the second reading. Havela beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you. We continue with Mr Simon Zajc, to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members, nice greetings! Today's proposal was tabled by the New Slovenia Group. This is a party that claims that, in fact, the only one understands, say, a farmer, and today will vote for a law that will be bad for a farmer. This is a party that says that the only one understands craftsmen and essentially prefers the main contractor rather than subcontractors in the criminal provisions of this code. The party, which is very pro-European if you listen to it, is in fact the most pro-European of all, and then introduces a law that does not respect European legislation. Of course, I'm talking about this 20%. We have two European Public Procurement Directives 2014/24 and 2014/25, both of which say that you cannot nominally determine, or any part of the contract that the main contractor executes. But you can qualitatively determine that. Mrs Muršič, this has already been incorporated into the Public Procurement Act-3. Article 84 provides that the contracting authority may provide that the key parts of the project are to be carried out by the principal contracting authority. And this is in line with European legislation and it is in line with your intention to determine that one office with a ficus can't build with one employee, I don't know, an airport or something. Then we have this third paragraph. I don't know why it happened, but if we accept it, as you wrote it, it will mean that we won't be able to sanction the main contractor for the false statements he's going to make on offer, and we won't be able to exclude him from other public contracts. While this will still apply to subcontractors. That is to say, if we accept your dictatorship, the subcontractor will have stricter criteria than the main contractor, which is another problem of this law. The third solution and your main solution is this direct payment. The current law already regulates direct payment in essence. If the subcontractor requests that it be paid directly, this shall be a direct payment. In addition, in projects that last longer, we can rely on the Bond Code where the subcontractor can issue a direct request to the subcontractor and is paid directly. There is no trial, you make a direct request and you are paid directly. If we give this law a direct payment. There's a lot of problems here. The first problem is that this law, namely the Public Procurement Act-3, did not apply for another month in essence when you have already tabled this proposal. So we really don't know if he's made the situation worse or not. We don't know that, but that's your prediction, and you're already trying to change the law. If we give things that don't belong to this legislation, where we're going to stop now. Or will we then also determine what it is like, I don't know, for constructionists who carry out public contracts, what helmets they have to have, because it will be different for public contracts. I'm cariculating now. But if we push everything in this law, which doesn't belong in here, then we get to it in the end. When we had this provision in the law that subcontractors should be paid directly, there were also some problems. The problems were in cases where the subcontractor had already received an advance, then the problems in the cessian and approving contracts were in line with the Bond Act. And that's exactly what's gonna happen. If we put things into laws that don't belong to, then these laws run into other laws, and here in this case it turns out. What do we now want to do with this law? Firstly, we want to violate the European order. Secondly, to give the subcontractor essentially, as far as this Article is concerned, a worse position than the main contractor. And we're fixing things that are already arranged. When we are talking about regulating the documentation on direct payments and when we are also talking about direct payments. It's already in this marriage. And now we come back to that point when we hear the same obvious, and good, because that's the first treatment, let it go, you'll fix it, you think it's wrong. But what are we gonna fix? We will throw out one third of the solutions to this law, which are not allowed because of European legislation, then we will throw out what does not belong to this law, we will throw out that third article, which prefers the main contractor. And then what do we have left? What we already have in our marriage. So we don't need this law and we can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. We continue with Dr Dragan Matić and prepare Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Comrade Simon Zajc, you speak theoretically, theory, what, anything can happen or because you don't know these things so well from practice. What Mrs Bojana Muršič said earlier is this. She practically ran these projects and knows what's going on. I've been in executive power, too, and I've been doing exactly the same things. I was in a congregation where we had a so - called engineering company and then subcontractors came to me to pay the congregation. How? We paid the main contractor. Yeah, but the main contractor went bankrupt. And I felt bad for these people. When I was in the government, I had at least five meetings with different contractors, but I was not in charge of this area. There was a problem for subcontractors on the suburban highway, on the lower highway, for subcontractors on the coastal highway or on this road to Nova Gorica, because the new law had already been in force, and they even managed to pay early because they had used the article of such a provision. We speak because we are approached by people, entrepreneurs, subcontractors who experience this on their own. And I don't know why you don't listen to people. You have the views of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Do you think they're kidding? They don't have time to deal with these things, but because they experience it on their skin. And you're not listening. You tell us that we are amending the law that entered into force on 1 April. We changed the law a little earlier, you proposed this amendment that came into force on 9 April this year, because you didn't listen to what we said at the time, because you think we're joking. We listen to people who have specific problems, and on this basis we have written this law. Because it's a problem, and we all know it. But what about the court that we get to our rights in court, and we know. It's been waiting a long time, and then it's too late for many, and it's already gone. Aluminum Komen is one of such problems, in the sky sobbing, in addition to countless others, a host of other similar problems. Read the position of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. They have many such cases and have therefore given this opinion. But we have also written a law based on this, which we have seen as a problem. And that's why this marriage has already been vetoed, and unfortunately you've reconfirmed it without listening to people's real problems. I'm sorry you're doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word, followed by Mr. Franz Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say, I am surprised by this debate by New Slovenia. Both the mechanism proposed in the basic law and the vocabulary used in the debate, all of this seems quite unusual to me to be New Slovenia, which is declared a neoliberal party. In Novi Slovenija, civil relations between individuals in the open market would obviously want to be resolved by means of advertisements in a law that is not intended at all to ensure the discipline of payment or to sanction pay-as-you-go discipline or to build a business culture. However, I will not repeat all the laws which are intended to do so, and Mrs Kozlovich has presented them to you in detail earlier. The new Slovenia, which has repeatedly advocated the principle that it is a free economic initiative, would now like to share entities on the market with those paid from public money and those not paid from public money. All this together with all that has been heard now, a variety of expressions such as the engineering of the company, Mr. Vrtovac, you once used this term, and otherwise you talked all the time about intermediaries, speculators, some companies that have nothing to do with having at least shovels and mixers so that those who have them can get a job and others can't. Look, this is a very forgiving way of discussing it. I think that the company that ensures that subcontractors are on some project at the right time, that they are doing their job quality, that they stick to the deadlines, that these companies are very justified, that they are on the market and that they are also carrying out very difficult projects. And with such administrative measures as you represent, and which are also contrary to the European Directive, that we should, as a percentage, determine the extent to which they have to carry out themselves, it seems to me that it all smells like past times, from the 1970s to the 1980s, and it is not a coincidence that this circle is being concluded here somewhere close, so that extremes in some place are also met. Such dramatic measures that you want to propose are, of course, welcome, and the question is, if today 2016 the situation on the market is so dramatic that we really need them. If it were what I know in 2011, I would still somehow understand it, but what's in 2016, you didn't justify this starting point or the assumption of why such legal measures are necessary. But let me help you. With regard to wage non-discipline, which is supposed to be a problem, and these little espionage, as you say, is an unbearable murder and destruction. I also think that this way of expressing these marketed entities is not very respectful. They're not ignorant people who can't protect themselves and use laws. I mean, it's such a little populism talk. But if we're talking about what's going on in the market. I use data here for the April month of the Mortgage House i, the number of blocked and closed transaction accounts decreased by 95.5% on average in April 2016. At monthly level, the number of blocked and closed transaction accounts decreased on average by 96 %. The court's proceedings. In April 2016, the number of bankruptcys committed against legal persons and personal bankruptcys was reduced by 90 % on average in April 2016. At monthly level, the number of legal persons and personal bankruptcys started decreased by 90 % on average. The number of compulsory winding-up procedures initiated in April 2016 decreased by 96 % at annual level and 95 % at monthly level. The number of other company termination procedures initiated decreased by 93 % in April 2016 and 96 % at monthly level. The number of company deletions decreased by 85% year-on-year in April 2016 and 85% month-on-month. All of this data does not indicate that wage discipline and therefore the associated risk of these entities on the market would be particularly dramatic or that the situation would deteriorate. In this respect, it can also be seen not only that the law in which you are trying to solve this is wrong, but that the environment and context of legal protection, or economic movement, are also flawed and this would probably be more justified in some other times, but not in this. These data also speak for themselves. Unfortunately, you have come up with some measure which at first seems to be pleasing, but, as it is said, you are proposing it in the wrong place and at the wrong time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u221	Replica, Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u222	First of all, I would ask you, Mr Matić, to explain to me which word was inappropriate. Secondly, we advocate fair pay for honest work. If some subcontractors have done something, they have the right to payment. Just look at one example. Unfortunately, I've already forgotten the details because it's only been a while since this, but a highway, a Slovenian highway. Dars didn't pay the subcontractor, but he paid the main contractor. That main contractor didn't pay any further. Then these subcontractors, cheated, unpaidly gathered together, joined together in some association, walked around us, I was then the executive power as minister, czech, what kind of payer the state is to not pay them, as the owner of the highway, Darsa, why not pay them. I can't because Dars has already paid, but to the main contractor, the subcontractors have run out. You know, it's very dramatic, too, when a subcontractor is waiting for 60, 100,000 euros, he can't pay his workers, his family can't live, he's set up a house that he lost because of his pay-discipline. That's what people are pointing out. Because they worked because they trusted because they believed they'd be paid and they weren't, they stayed on the road. And sometimes there are suicides, divorces, and things like that. And that's what we want to avoid so that those who did it get what they deserve. I'm not protecting anyone, I'm protecting someone who's been working, who deserves his salary. However, that some engineering companies are significantly lowering the initial price to compete in the acquisition of the project, we know. But then somewhere in this chain of payments to subcontractors, the money runs out. Of course not with them, but the last ones, the little ones, then they're gone. And then they find themselves in a position to fail. In their personal life, they usually have problems, but in business anyway. And that's what we want to protect and nothing else. If you have allowed yourself to change the law that you have approved and entered into force on 9 April, today we have also allowed ourselves to change it. Our job is to look for solutions, better solutions for people. And that's all we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. After him, Mr Janko Weber, let Mr Joseph Horvat prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u224	Dear President, all present, all together, one nice greeting. Public procurement. It's a very, very complicated thing. Those who have experience in practice know what can happen in the award of a public contract. I will say so, it is very important for this whole story to have social responsibility, especially for the contracting authority in this case, then for the business culture and for sure a legally secure environment. We have the Public Procurement Act, we have the Bond Code. We had such solutions, but they were not right because there was always a path that could lead in a completely different direction, in a bad direction. Again the change has come, we are here again before the fact that this is the right solution and whether it provides security primarily to subcontractors. I am not sure that all the solutions in the existing law are optimal, but it is important to look at this from several perspectives. In certain cases, due to the procedures for drawing on European funds, we have had problems with direct payment and proving this to be justified in drawing on these funds, and in many cases there have also been problems if the payment was made directly. We had quite a administrative problem to demonstrate the eligibility of these funds and remittances. Now what? Much to resolve by tendering conditions, to define precisely all the conditions for awarding the contract in this direction, so that the subcontractor will also see that there are large guarantees for payment of the fair work. This is also not quite enough because projects can be delayed or the duration of projects can be long, even for several years, and in this case many more can happen. And it's with the lead contractor. In spite of all that was in the tendering conditions when the main contractor was successful in running this tender. The resolution of disputes on the basis of the existing legislation itself, with everything I have counted, including the Bond Act, is long-lasting, complex. I agree with all those who feel the same way that at this time a number of subcontractors may fall into insolvency, which may also mean the end of business for them. In this case, it is too late to resolve the case in court later in favor of him. However, consideration should be given to the possibility of the statutory payment of subcontractors, since this is its highest legal, financial security. This is perhaps necessary at a time when we do not have any experience with the current law. If not today, there will soon be a case when we have to cut. Is it the right time for us to reach out now that practically speaking the law has not yet come to life, this is now another issue. At the same time, I fully understand the Chamber of Commerce and Industry because they are the ones the tradesmen are turning to. And here are the craftsmen who are most often in the position where they are most affected in case anything goes wrong. Experiences from the past are very bitter, and I am not surprised that they have addressed their support for this law because fear exists. That's a fact. Any normal person who goes into this, and if he has dealt with it in practice, it is perfectly normal for him to have problems like those we have witnessed again. However, as long as there are many public contracts, much work on the market, this problem will certainly be reduced or reduced to a minimum by these tendering conditions. That's all there is to it. But what we are currently witnessing is that from one financial perspective to another financial perspective, to a new, this transitional period is very long. In this case, as the latest evidence shows, there is a very large decline in construction works or a decline in construction work. In these cases, when such a situation occurs, all conditions are given so that the old story can be repeated. But worst of all, when a certain part of these capacities is destroyed, there is a new financial perspective and a lot of new public procurement, and we do not have sufficient implementation capacities. That's what I mean by homework. And then there's the mass of subcontractors from abroad. We have this practice. For example, I can also say that when it was not possible to obtain, there was sufficient capacity on the domestic market in certain areas. That's understandable. But I wouldn't want that to happen again. Another very good reason is when public contracts are issued at a dumped price. This is already a sign that speculation can occur.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u225	Mr Jernej Vrtovec wants to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u226	I've been to the predecessor, not Mr. Lai, but before, Mr. Matić, slightly accused of negative statements, lewd statements, mockery. Apparently, I was misunderstood. I forgive you, Mr Matić, but I believe that if a person works his whole life in public administration, it is difficult to understand the problem of entrepreneurs or the real sector. I come from the Vipava Valley. There we had a lot of Primorje company, you all know it, and there is almost one village so that no such thing would happen, due to the Primorje, that subcontractors from the Vipavska Valley were not paid. There's almost one village. We are still dealing with this problem today because people are not on duty, but Karitas is paying them bills and so on. Last time I tried, I think it was Tuesday, in one road traffic law I tried to convince my colleagues at SMC about the well-intention of the law, but somehow it didn't work out, the rest of the coalition was more open ears to hear the well-intention of this law. Today, I am just saying that I will not try so hard, but, it seems, in this Chamber, the difference between us and SMC is in understanding two aspects, on the one hand New Slovenia, we are, at least as regards procurement on the side of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, subcontractors and not on the side of subscribers, so the situation of the weakest, in this case those who create added value to the Slovenian economy and deserve fair pay for their honest work. That's all. And our marriage allows them to do that. Further discussion on this at least on my part, not that it's irrelevant, but somehow it seems to me that you don't even want to understand. The fear of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia is very much in place. They say in the letter we received that the law currently in force will bring a lot of problems and chronic non-payment and the failure of subcontractors, because it is already the experience and testimony of their members, the craftsmen say, in the event that they are standardised in public contracts as subcontractors and are thus directly paid – then they give in rounding, apply a high level of payment discipline or are substantially improved if the main contractor or contracting authority does not deliberately delay the validation of the situation or takeover without further justification – and experience in cases that are not standardised as subcontractors and are not directly paid as subcontractors. So, entrepreneurs are afraid of this marriage. I invite you to listen in this case to entrepreneurs, because we also take some responsibility for the possible collapse of these people in the event of a new payment non-discipline. One of the main arguments is why we are already making this law. Mr Verbič, for a very simple reason: because we do not want the first negative consequences to come. Not for reasons such as those mentioned in the previous debate, we are talking about the law on public procurement. Because we're afraid of the first negative consequences. And these negative consequences are not for a thousand, 2 000 euros, these negative consequences may be in 100,000 euros or we have witnessed suicides of individuals who have not received paid things for their work. And this is what New Slovenia wants to prevent. I see that we are not alone on this path, as it turns out, by some individuals in the ruling coalition. But I am happy, and once again, my colleagues from the SMC, I am also glad that completely ideologically different parties, when it comes to something good, are able to get closer. In this case, the United Left. And in this national assembly, it would be good to have more of this kind of cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We continue with Mr Jank Webro, to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Dr Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The current provision in the law, when a subcontractor wishing direct payment may request this declaration and submit it, is certainly very loose and there will probably be very few such statements in practice. If we look at the current solution, i.e. after the proposal in the law submitted, it is certainly significantly better for subcontractors, but in my opinion it can be stuck at a time when, say, no authorisation or consent is submitted within the time limit, the contracting authority of the State Audit Commission should propose to introduce the infringement procedure. And if we take on the role of a contracting entity who wants to make some kind of investment within the deadline, because it is possibly tied, I don't know, to European funds, in short, I don't know, the period in which it builds is always unpredictable. There could be a derogation here. And the first time such a derogation is made, the system begins to collapse. Given that there is a group of young people in Slovenia who actively address this problem and want to set up standards for the construction sector for the selection of operators and the implementation of projects that apply to smaller and larger projects and for private investors and businesses and institutions, it would be very useful for them to listen and try to incorporate this system into the public procurement law. When you have established standards, it is much easier to control the whole public procurement process. One of the important processes is certainly the reference and rating of the operator. And if we look at the references, it is very important that this reference is verified and adequately supported. When you have this reference, of course, you also get the ratings and all of this could be combined into the status of a company that meets the standards of business excellence. This is something that is also one of the important projects in Slovenia. When you decide as an investor to choose a designer, a contractor, you give as one of the important conditions for choosing exactly this reference and ratings. And if these companies fulfil this, then it will certainly correct the attitude both towards subcontractors and investors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u229	Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor, followed by Mr Franz Jurša as the last discusser in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. I would, in the first place, also be circumcised for what my colleague Kozlovich said. It was obvious that we are not citing numbers to actually talk about certain hypotheses, particularly regarding unpaid workers. Those who are as skilled as they are right know that the official records of the bankruptcy of unpaid workers are not recorded, in fact, bankruptcy is bankruptcy and cannot be distinguished. But you can look at what workshops for workers, migrants or what reports of credible journalists are, what is the actual situation, what is the situation, in fact, of workers, especially foreigners, who have virtually lost everything because of the payment indiscipline of their employers. And I can tell you that in 2011, since there are no more recent reports, the Guarantee Fund paid compensation for unpaid salaries to 7205 workers. And this is what we're talking about about about the amount of about 19 million euros. We are only talking about the last three salaries, and of course minimum wages. So much for numbers. As Violeta said earlier about the expertise or political issue when we spoke specifically about KZ, the definition of crime is a matter of political decision, and that was not the point, but something that is subject to moral or political decision and some moral judgment, but not a couple of excellence legal action. Lawyers also lack some monopoly on ethics and morality, regardless of how the ruling SMC and the Prime Minister define themselves. As far as expertise is concerned, I think we have repeatedly shown in the United Left that we are turning to experts and to those with, of course, professional data. This has been the case with KZ, where we have specifically cooperated with people who engage in gang fighting and animal torture and are based on data, and believe me, more than a veterinary inspection has prepared appropriate changes to the law. As far as expertise is concerned, I have to stop here a little longer. We are being lectured on expertise from a party that has accepted, without any reservations, the Environmental Protection Act, for example, even though we know how environmental experts have opposed this law and despite the fact that the Council of State has voted veto in this law. The profession also pointed out that more resources should be provided for the monitoring of water, but this also went smoothly. So as far as this duality of expertise and inequity is concerned, I think we need to be correct. Further to the specific law that we should be discussing. The laws that existed before and the law that is currently in force have some problems. This is already indicated by the Court of Auditors' reports, which state the main problems in public procurement. Here we have a fairly long list, that the principles of ensuring competition and proportionality were not respected, that the tender was not verified in the tender before the contract was signed, the offer did not meet the conditions, was not excluded, the notice of award was too late to be published, the minutes of opening the tenders were not properly forwarded to the tenderers, the assessment of the value of the contract was too low, the inappropriate type of procedure was chosen for the award of the contract. And that list is still running. Finally, we have to say that in the selection process, the unpublished criterion was used, at least three tenderers were not invited to tender, and the corresponding procurement record was not kept. At the moment, we have a situation where public procurement poses a lot of problems. These problems mean, on the one hand, that there is still a high degree of non-transparentness in these procedures and, on the other hand, there is a high risk of corruption. And we all know that we have very big problems with corruption. The law, which is currently in force, did not in fact solve problems; it did not solve problems in cases where the procedure was carried out on the basis of the rules in force, but where the rules in force are actually acting or violating. And that's the main problem we have right now. In this regard, the Court of Auditors, unfortunately the media, can do something to prevent corruption, although it is now quite ineffective. In the public sector, it is mostly reported that about 25% of the 4 billion euros we spend on public procurement per year are leaking into private pockets, i.e. poor billions of euros. And this is a serious indicator that shows that in some ways this law needs to be overturned and, of course, corrected. I think today we have this opportunity for this law to be reopened and to resolve certain things that are still problematic in this law. It's a first reading. It is a matter of deciding whether or not we are continuing to think about these problems. In some ways, I no longer understand this persistent and stubborn insistence of the coalition that any thing that comes from the opposition species is not appropriate because it either solves things non-systemically, whether the government is already doing it or has already done it and so on. Also, the reference to the fact that no analysis has been done since the introduction of the new law, that there is not enough time to go by, seems to me to be somewhat attracted to the hair. As long as the law was being prepared, we could see that there were problems. NSI, SDS and the United Left have tabled amendments, similar amendments to a certain article, probably because we have seen that things will not work as they should. I simply do not accept these arguments. However, I would not like us to continue in the way that public procurement has been conducted so far. If we think of highways, medical supplies and so on. We know we have problems, and I think it's our job to save them. I'll finish here. I hope there's any chance we can talk about this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u231	Franz Jursha, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u232	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! If I look at the public procurement from my point of view and from the experience I have had in this area, I must say that some of the views of the proposer also go back to 2010. I was also involved in public procurement at the time. I must say that I have always been skeptical about whether we, who have participated in the selection procedures, choose the one that is most favourable and the one that is the most quality and has the best references. Public procurement is a constant problem. In fact, those who have a low price are in many cases not of sufficient quality, despite the fact that they show certain references. However, one who has a higher price cannot be chosen because the price is simply too important when deciding and selecting an individual candidate or individual contractor. Look, if I look at from my point of view, how and how this matter was regulated in the past, and how it is regulated in the present, I have to say that we had certain regulations, as I have already mentioned, by 2010, we had others a little later. This last law, which was passed and which came into force, we had since 1. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This law allows, it has some instruments which in a slightly different way regulate matters than you in New Slovenia have proposed. I'm always in favour of protecting the weaker. That's anyway. Either it is mandatory to pay it directly, or it is possible to pay it directly. That's two options. If a good contractor is selected, this contractor must also have 20% of the possible implementation of a specific project by law. It is said that it cannot be just an office and engineering, it must have 20% of its own performance, and the other matters can also be carried out by the subcontractor. If he is an honest, correct contractor, then there will be no problems with the subcontractors and he will also pay the subcontractors. In the event that it is someone who wants to make a commitment to the subcontractor, it is better that this subcontractor does not actually conclude any contract or conclude any agreement with that contractor. It is better for him not to come to this agreement, for such a weight can also mean the failure of an independent entrepreneur. I can't say that I don't kind of accept your initiative, but we should still see if this law has entered into force 1. 4. allows this monitoring to avoid such problems as has been the case at the time, Mrs Ljudmila, when you were also in executive power or project implementation, and the problems have been taking place for many years. So a lot of people actually failed, and some, I agree with you completely, and they also lost their lives at the expense of that, because they simply couldn't get over those big punches that the then construction barons and the then construction lobby had given them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u233	We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would like to explain in the introduction, on behalf of the Government, what was already the purpose of the Public Procurement Act-3, whose objectives are pursued and how the law was also prepared, how it was coordinated with all stakeholders in the wider circle, just to point out in the light of the debate and concerns raised, the difficulties of practice that have been emerging for a long time or several years, individual cases that have been exposed. It seems crucial to me to stress that we now have the Public Procurement Act-3. In our ministry, we give a lot of emphasis and energy, and we focus on activities that will ensure more effective implementation. It is also crucial to empower these soft content to empower all stakeholders involved in public procurement processes to prepare guidelines where stakeholders and those involved in public procurement practice are involved, and we can also help to improve standards, but also keyly these information tools, which have already been mentioned today, to increase transparency and also to prevent individual procurement, and individual contracting authorities in public procurement, from also being publicly published, so that certain more traceability can also be ensured here than has been provided in the past. When the law has now been enforced, it is also stressed that conditions are in place to ensure that it is implemented as effectively as possible. And given that it has been said that a good month and a half is in place, we have already seen some progress in this part of established practice, one part of the Public Procurement Act can be addressed, and the other parts have already been highlighted by you today, but perhaps somewhere else more effective or supported can be implemented. However, I would point out only one part of the statistics when you mentioned that we have a poor public procurement system, that it is complex, difficult. Statistics show that in the country we have 6,000 public contracts per year, which receive 300 complaints, and only 2% of them show that complaints are successful. So the public contracts are unsuccessful. Based on this statistics, we can see that the procurement system is effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thanks, mag. Tani Bogataj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Thank you all for this discussion, too. The Ministry of Final Intervention, in fact, proves that the former law, the Public Procurement Act, was effective, given that there are so few complaints. Once again, the aim of the introduction of this law by New Slovenia is only to protect and effectively protect subcontractors. And that's why we've made three changes. The main novelty is the compulsory direct payment of subcontractors, the possibility of replacing the subcontractor after signing the contract with him and the main contractor must perform a certain part of the contract with its own capacities. These are three key properties. Why did we go into these changes? Because of bad practices in the past, as some of you have already spoken in this Chamber. These bad practices were cut short by a very effective law, the Public Procurement Act-2 of 2010. And we're changing good practice. I don't know why that's necessary. It's a direct payment. Here we always place on the scale what is greater assurance that subcontractors will be paid, just that. And direct payment is a better guarantee than referring to the rule of law in this case, because in the meantime, an entrepreneur may already perish while waiting for payment. To conclude, let me make one promise, not only to the National Assembly and to you at the Ministry, but also to entrepreneurs, that if the National Assembly rejects this law today, Nova Slovenija will continue to insist on changes to this law, the law on public procurement. We do not want negative practices to continue indefinitely until 2010, nor do we want small and medium-sized enterprises to fail. I also wish the ruling coalition didn't want that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u237	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mr Jernej Vrtovec or a representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Let's start with the application. Each debater has 5 minutes at his disposal. Mr. Simon Zajc, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not gonna spend five minutes because I'm gonna be very short. I just want to say that the fear of going back to the period before 2010 is a little incorrect. In the period before 2010, there were no matters in the law that are now in marriage. I am talking about that in the law before 2010, subcontractors had no opportunity to claim direct payment, today they have it, and no sanctions were provided for. At that time, it was not possible to punish those main operators by failing to pay their subcontractors so that they could no longer run for public tender, nor were such fines put at risk. Therefore, to compare the current period with the period before 2010 is mildly incorrect. I don't think that's the way to scare people. I would like to reiterate that this too does not seem to me that the argument that this law should be given time is purely credible. We are now speaking on the basis of what we think that, all of us, none of us have really tested this in practice, so we do not know how many subcontractors will decide to demand direct payment, and we do not know what the deterrent effect of sanctions will have. But if it really turns out that you're right, I hope this doesn't show up, then maybe there will be some change. But we must remain within the framework of what the European legal order imposes on us, and we must also know what kind of law matters. It may be necessary to change any other law, not the law of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u239	Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Vice President, once again. My debate, too, I hope and wish that on the proposal's side, the amendment of this proposal is that it has taken good intentions, because I have something to point out once again. After one month to open a law that we have just adopted for two key reasons, one is the transfer of both directives and the other is called bad experience from the past, but what I have relied on in my own debate, and I still believe that the irregularities that have been in the past are not just a matter or so-called the most painful one for colleagues or participants in proceedings. I expected that if you were to open this law, you would also be dealing with the procedures of the public procurement itself, claiming to be the contractors of the tenders. In the past there have been many matters on the side of the contracting authorities. Those who have prepared public tenders have caused a lot of problems to the contracting authority as well as the contractors themselves. And I expect any correction of this law to be made on the basis of some analysis of all segments of public procurement, which was also said in the debate, that there is a lot of money going on here, and that we should look at the whole matter. Given that the honourable Member said in his debate by the United Left that transparency of public procurement is expected and demanded and practically reduces corruption risks. In the introductory part, I have just mentioned this: I welcome the Public Procurement Act-3 in particular in this part, which is the informationisation of procedures. And it is with these issues that they want to prevent, in particular in this direction, attempts in procurement procedures to ensure that individual documents are not diminished or, in any way, excluded in this process. It is important to know, however, that there is virtually still some activity with regard to this law. Those of us who have looked at the contents need to be aware of something. In 2017, it is said that next year there will be a mandatory electronic offer for the central purchasing authorities, as well as for all contracting authorities from April 2018. So these are the procedures that the Ministry of Field will have to follow very closely and in a very timely manner. I am sure that if the Public Procurement Act-3 does not prevent the so-called bad practice of the past, they will respond very quickly and these matters will be settled. It must be admitted, however, that no marriage is ideal. However, I would expect that, indeed, when we are interfering with the amendment of legislation, we can be preventive in some way, but based on some real analysis. I believe there are enough guards here with the Public Procurement Act-3 to prevent such anomalies from happening as they have been in the past. But what I would like to stress is not only with subcontractors, but also with the contractors of public procurement contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you, too. As the last debater today, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Well, all the work, Mr Verbič, we cannot do for you, but we will do our best next time we open the Public Procurement Act, we will also make your contribution to the current debate. Look, there's also one key question for the end. How many major operators have actually been sanctioned or previously, despite the sanctions since 2010? How many of the main operators have been punished and what have these sanctions been? Do sanctions depend at all? What helps the rule of law in this case, because it only turns out to be legal after so many years when someone actually fails. That's why I'm putting it back on the scale: what do we lose if we reintroduce a direct payment to subcontractors? Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u243	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 7.15 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u244	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund of the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 13th item of the agenda this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 50. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Labour Prevention and Employment is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 53. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Media following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection following a reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 17. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 9. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 9 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. They don't want to. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the adoption of this amendment, there has been a discrepancy between the articles of the law and I am predicting that the Government will table a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u246	Since the Government has warned that the proposal for a law is not harmonised after the third hearing, I ask the proposer to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Friday 20th. 5. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Certification of Accounts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 26 for them and 49 for them. [[There were 26 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Law is suitable for further consideration. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Such a way of taxing agricultural land as we have in our country, that is to say, cadastral income, is to be avoided in Europe. The only way we have to tax agricultural land. No other country has that. With the 2011 law, we should go to new data with an amendment because there was no longer any ground cadastre of the basis for calculating the cadastral income, but we did not do anything appropriate in five years, although a commission was set up in 2013 to prepare and then in two mandates. But now we've got a marriage or we haven't got it yet, we're going to get it, there's been a heated debate, because farmers have risen up, that this law is not significantly better than it was originally presented at the time, and that KD is also increasing by 500% or more, including 1000% for certain land. This was also acknowledged by the ministry on the committee itself that coordination with farmers’ representatives should be re-coordinated. However, since this law must be adopted by summer if we want to implement such an account for the following year, and because it was such a noise and also a threat to farmers to come before parliament with manure, with tractors with no idea what else to do, and because it will be adopted by law on a regular basis, we have been in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to extend this transitional period from 2012 to 2016, we will not do anything wrong if we sit once again and accept the basic tax base for agricultural land. Because it seems inappropriate for us to tax agricultural land on the basis of what a farmer could grow on that land, even though he may have a cold, drought, hail, and I don't know what else. Even in the old days, when the tenth of the farmers were giving, they gave a tenth of what they were producing, not a tenth of what they could produce. Compulsory duties after the war were also a percentage of what was produced, not a percentage of what could be produced. If they can be facilitated, an intervention law should be adopted so as not to charge KDs or not to pay income, which again is restrictions and conditions that the damage is so great that such an intervention law is adopted. So please confirm this for another reading. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u248	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. We will not support this law in the Modern Center Group. Before I explain why, I might just say that a Slovenian farmer can pay a tenth, if we say so, of what he came for, he just has to go to the books, and then he'll pay for what he really came for, not flat. Now we're talking flat tax. Why don't we support this bill? This is because if he has not yet come to the National Assembly today, there will be a government proposal tomorrow for a new law on the determination of cadastral income. And this marriage is good. This law will even initially reduce cadastral income, which is very welcome in these times when farmers beat weather and market conditions. In addition, after full introduction, for most farmers, we are talking about 68% of farmers, meaning that they will pay exactly zero euros for their income and remain on average 65 euros. These are the kind of lifts. Another thing that's very important. This law will significantly relieve a bureaucraticly large number of farmers. This is what we are trying to do, so it is important not to adopt this law, which lasts another year of this transitional period, but to adopt a new law. And the last. The new KD will encourage those sectors that are important or malnourished in Slovenia and are important for raising our self-sustainment. For these reasons, we cannot support your marriage. Not because it's coming from your side, but because there's a new law coming in tomorrow that's going to introduce everything I've just counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u250	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u251	I wasn't talking about KD getting taller at the beginning when you mentioned it. I'm talking about that kind of taxation isn't fair, it's not fair. That's what I'm talking about. The law that comes to the table follows what we've had so far. It is a fair calculation or burden on agricultural land. You're really talking about the bumper. What did he break? Is it not fair to go to cultures, to pay the tax on what was actually produced under the circumstances, or to pay the tax on what is the ability of a given land, what kind of income we can achieve rather than just flatten? Whether the field is with stone or is a field in the plain, it can be 500 meters away from each other and the yield is quite different. What's your base? It's regional. It's the same with the forest. It's the same with the vineyard. If a cadaver were to be counted on a plot, as it used to be when we had an ascribed in the land book, which categories are fields or meadows or pastures. We had a comment on the committee on the height pastures, as KD is now envisaged. In the lowlands, if you eat five times, it can be achieved on mountain farms, but once you eat, then you feed, and you don't. But it doesn't matter to you. That's what this is about. It's a fair reckoning. If a tax is already imposed by the State, it should be measured fairly, regardless of the height. Maybe it's too low for someone. Now, in the transitional period, for one in Prekmurje, it was even too low and the comments were reversed. Following this proposal, it will be lower in 2017 and not 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u252	You will therefore vote in favour. Mr Simon Zajc has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u253	I will not support this marriage. There's something she needs to be seduced. When we adopt flat-rate laws, we must immediately be aware that this law will not be fair or fair for every 100 per cent, and therefore flat-rate. Those excesses, which will appear, will then be resolved later in the legislation on income and other regulations, but the system will still be set up so that the farmer can see, if he disagrees with flat-rate taxation, he will know as many months earlier that he can decide to go to book-keeping run farms in time, which means he will pay the tax just as much as he has produced. And by doing so, we will ensure this honesty. For these reasons, I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u254	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the bill on collective management of copyright and related rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 48 votes against and 18 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on international road transport. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you very much for the words, honourable Members. On the basis of the confirmed views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the basis of the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, signed an agreement in Baku between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on international road transport. The reason for the conclusion of the agreement is the establishment of conditions and a way for the continued smooth carriage of passengers and goods between the country and in transit across their territories. The agreement is based on the principle of reciprocity and the need to develop road transport between countries. The carriage of goods between the territories of the two countries shall be carried out on the basis of licences. However, the transport of passengers is subject to an authorisation system. The Agreement also regulates occasional and interchangeable transport, which is also subject to the authorisation system. For the proper implementation of the provisions of the Agreement and the resolution of open issues, a Joint Committee shall be established, consisting of representatives of the competent authorities of both Slovenia and Azerbaijan. The Joint Committee shall meet at the request of one of the States Parties to the Agreement and the meetings shall alternately be in the territory of one State and another. Both parties agreed to register the agreement with the United Nations General Secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u256	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Georgia on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. On the basis of the confirmed views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the basis of the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, signed an agreement in Tbilisi on the international road transport of passengers and goods between these countries on 15 October 2015. The Agreement is based on the principle of reciprocity and the need to develop road transport, regulates the road traffic of passengers and goods between the country and transit through the territory of Slovenia and Georgia, as well as the journey of empty vehicles. The transport of goods may be carried out on the basis of licences and the transport of passengers shall be subject to a system of licences. For occasional and interchangeable transport, as well as a system of permits. A Joint Committee consisting of representatives of the competent authorities of both countries shall be established to implement the provisions of the Agreement correctly and to resolve the outstanding issues. The Joint Committee may meet at the request of one State and the meetings shall alternately be held in the territory of one State and another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u258	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported to the National Assembly in writing. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a proposal by the Government of Slovenia to ratify the Agreement on Air Transport between the Government of Slovenia and the Government of United Arab Emirates. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you. Your Honor! In 2005, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly endorsed the initiative to conclude a regular air transport agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. On the basis of a confirmed initiative, both countries initialled the text of the agreement in Ljubljana on 15 September 2005, and were also signed on 17 September 2015 by the Minister for the Economy of the United Arab Emirates in Ljubljana. The Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates is the basis for the establishment and implementation of regular air transport between the two countries and the external territories. This is a traditional agreement that is of interest to both countries. The Agreement is also in line with the European Commission on the provisions which are within the competence of the European Union. As soon as possible, airports and Adria Airways, which will seek their market opportunities on the basis of the agreement, also support their legal enforcement. In order to establish regular air transport between countries, however, all internal legal procedures must be completed. In the case of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the ratification of the agreement. In view of the above, I propose that the proposed ratification law be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u260	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia was signed on 1 September 2015 at Bled on the edge of the Bled Strategic Forum. On the Slovenian side, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič signed the agreement and on the Tunisian side was signed by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Tunisia. Cooperation in the scientific and technological field between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Tunisia, which has so far been carried out to a modest extent on the basis of direct contacts between Slovenian and Tunisian institutions. In 2005, the Tunisian side proposed the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on scientific and technological cooperation, which would further define cooperation in this area. The agreement will create better conditions for strengthening equal and mutually beneficial relations in the field of scientific cooperation and, consequently, economic cooperation between the two countries. The Agreement provides a legal basis for the conclusion of other bilateral and implementing documents on scientific and technological cooperation between countries. The Agreement also provides for the establishment of a Joint Committee on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u262	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 75 votes against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On the contrary, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the financing agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank (AUTOCEST IX). The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Joint Left Group. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you, President, for the last time today. This law provides a state guarantee for EUR 145 million of credit that Dars will rent to the European Investment Bank. I would like to draw the attention of the public accompanying the meeting to the fact that we have debated today for more than 5 hours on two proposals, which together had a possible €200,000 financial impact, while the consideration of this law will take about 5 minutes. In fact, there are two important economic issues that will not be without consequences for citizens. It is not self-evident that highways are built with loans. Before 2004, they were mostly built with budgetary resources, which is cheaper in the long run because there is no interest. Last year, because of the covert insurance law for Dars, Dars had 2.6 billion debts. Dars was in debt between 1995 and 2010, almost a billion and a half of this debt was incurred in 2005 and 2006, which is the time of the first Janša government. It was a double mistake. First time. At that time the economy overheated and overheating should be reduced by a tax rise. On the contrary, the government has reduced its income and company profit tax, and has abolished the tax on unpaid salaries in its entirety. If taxes were increased at the time, they would reduce overheating on the one hand and, on the other hand, obtain funding for motorways. Another time. If Dars had $2.6 billion in debt today, we could have cheaper vineyards and Dars would have more investment potential. This would win all drivers and the Republic of Slovenia as the wedding and only owner of Darsa. Now I'm coming to a vital question. The investment potential of Darsa concerns all inhabitants of Slovenia. The priority infrastructure project in Slovenia has been the second railway line between Kopro and Divac for some time now. The Chamber of Commerce suggested a few months ago that the second track be built by Dars. Why does that make sense? Darsov would not have been included in public debt and Dars could have obtained European grants. This is exactly how the Republic of Austria is today building a railway by pass around Slovenia. The Austrian project is worth more than 9 billion, with Austria having more public debt than Slovenia. Cerara's government gave up this option without discussion. It forces the most expensive solution in the form of a public-private partnership. If the government plan is implemented, we will subsidise the private investor in order to achieve the required return. The privatisation of Slovenian railways and, last but not least, Luke Koper will probably be part of this subsidy. However, if the project is not implemented, and this is also the most realistic option, Luka Koper and all logistics companies that depend on it will be cut off from the main traffic flows. In the United Left, we are confident that the second track must remain in our hands. Although we will support this law, we will not support any new guarantees to Dars if this threatens the possibility that Dars is involved in the construction of the second track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-19-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u264	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 10 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 17. 5. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the draft law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly made the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
