ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Ambassador Ludmila Novak from 16:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. Agenda item – Proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The draft act was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you. Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution is a fundamental act of the State and it is therefore acting with great consideration and very weighty. In the Alliance more than a year ago, we started looking for support to supplement our constitution by writing down to protect the water. In the parties Desus, the Social Democrats and the Group of the United Left, they immediately realized that such a step was necessary, and on 16 April 2015, we put the Alliance's proposal with 26 signatures of Members and Members into the legislative procedure. Thank you all for your support from the very beginning. Without water, there's no life. It's a river that holds. Slovenia is among the countries that can boast of the best water. For many, it is unimaginable that in our country we can open a pipe and drink water that is even better than bottled water. For many, too, in Europe, not only in a less developed part of the world, water is already a good thing that is not as self-evident as we are. Slovenia does not yet have major water problems, not with quality and not with quantity, at least in a large part of our country, but it is far from staying that way forever. Climate change from year to year changes our environment. Areas where there will be a lot of drought in a few decades are also spreading to our vicinity, as shown by a number of analyses. Privatisation pressures, pressures for the privatisation of water resources, have also been associated with all of these trends over the past decade. Since we have assessed in the Alliance that the privatisation of water resources must be prevented, you have before you a proposal to amend or supplement the Constitution. In particular, we want to see water and access to water as a general and fundamental right at the constitutional level in order to prevent the privatisation of water resources and to prevent drinking water being treated as any other commodity, water supply must remain and be carried out in the form of a non-profit public service. Water is a source of life, a basic and at the same time strategic raw material, without which neither development nor life alone is possible. With the introduction of water into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as universal and fundamental rights, we think in due time about the challenges for the future that our children and grandchildren will face even more strongly. Privatisation pressures and possible wrong political tendencies will be prevented at the highest level and will signal Europe and the world that water supply in Slovenia will not be intended to generate profits. Never! Water is a public good and must be accessible to all forever. We are also pleased that the Council of State has unanimously supported our proposal, which, hand to heart, does not happen very often. The reasons for changing the Constitution by writing down water as a good thing for anyone who cannot be privatized are more than enough. Legal experts and constitutional lawyers should find the most appropriate record to go to the constitution during the proceedings. Our goal is clear; water is a public good that no one can exploit because of their profits. But thank you all for your support of our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u3	The draft act was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. I give the floor to a member of the Commission, Dr Mitji Horvat, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, all those who participate in or accompany this meeting are respected! The Constitutional Commission is at its third session when it began its work 23. 6. 2015, and at the three sessions of the 3rd session. Seven. 2015, 25. 5. 2016 and 29. 6. 2016 examined the proposal to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law tabled by the Group of Members 6. 4. 2015 in the National Assembly. At the 3rd session of the 23rd session. 6. 2015 Members of the Constitutional Commission made a presentation of the proposal at the first meeting of 3rd session. Seven. 2015 set up an expert group on the right to drinking water, at the second meeting, on 3rd session, on 25th. 5. 2016 held the first part of the general debate and moved to a decision on the basis of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. on a proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution. At the third level, below 29. 6. 2016 held a debate on the draft constitutional law and adopted a proposal for a draft opinion for plenary decision. Let me say that there has been a lot of participation in the process, and I will not be able to list all of them because I have too much time, so I would like to thank everyone at this point, and in particular the expert committee that has done a lot of work, and in anticipation of the adoption of today's conclusions, we are also warmly encouraged to continue to cooperate properly and effectively. At the second meeting, on 3rd session, 25th session 5. After the discussion, we moved on to a proposal for a vote on the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a proposal from the Group of Members and Members of the European Parliament of 16. 4. 2015 to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. This proposal for a decision was supported by the Constitutional Commission with the necessary majority of the members present. At the second meeting, the Constitutional Commission first decided on the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre and the Group of the United Left and, following the adoption of the amendments, also decided on the draft proposal for a position and on the draft constitutional law, taking into account the amendments adopted, and adopted it in full. Thus today, two decisions have been submitted to us by the Constitutional Commission for the purposes of plenary decision in the National Assembly. The first is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of the Group of Members and Members of the European Union of 16. 4. 2015 to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law, and further propose to the National Assembly that, after the conclusion of the debate on the draft constitutional law, it should vote on the following position on the draft constitutional law: In the first section of the first draft constitutional law, it is proposed to supplement Article 70 of the Constitution to the Regulations in the new 70a, in order to ensure that everyone has the right to safe drinking water, that natural water resources are naturally public in the administration of the State, that natural water resources serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not marketable goods, that the supply of drinking water and household water is provided by the State through non-profit public service, so that natural water resources for this purpose is used directly or directly by the local authorities. When preparing a proposal for a constitutional law, all other important aspects of the right to safe drinking water or its implementation should also be examined at the level of constitutional and, consequently, legal regulation. Finally, the implementing part of the Constitutional Law should set deadlines within the existing mandate of the National Assembly for the harmonisation of laws governing the provision of safe drinking water to the population and the household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen for the opening presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to include the debate on drinking water protection in the National Assembly in the form of a proposal to amend the Constitution. I am pleased to monitor the growing awareness of the importance of drinking water as one of the most important natural resources and of course of the initiative to raise water protection to constitutional level. By doing so, we follow the highest standards of the international community, since the United Nations has already confirmed the right to drinking water as a human right in 2010. For Slovenia, issues related to effective water management are an important aspect in the preparation and implementation of all national governance policies. Slovenia stresses the importance of active cooperation in addressing water protection and management issues in policy-making at European Union level and in planning cross-border adaptation measures in international sub-regional contexts. We coordinate all the measures and targets envisaged, both in the context of international river basins and with neighbouring countries. It is important and extremely welcome to be aware of the importance of water protection, both in terms of quantities and in terms of quality assurance. Slovenia is rich in water, but they are not completely evenly spatial and time-consuming. Most of our watercourses have a ripple and circulatory character, so the flow changes over the year. A sample of water shortages during the vegetative period and an increase in the quantity by floods in other parts of the year shall be repeated. It also varies the annual renewable amount of groundwater in shallow aquifers. In order to provide drinking water to the population, the most important process in Slovenia is the restoration of groundwater resources. 93 % of water for public drinking water is covered by springs, wells and wells. The quality of drinking water is important for drinking water supply. Microbiological and chemically appropriate is the water provided by larger water supply systems that can provide adequate water treatment and where water protection areas are specified. Only a small proportion of available water is used in Slovenia to supply drinking water and other use of water, around 3% of the available water. In fact, about 15 billion cubic metres of water flows annually from Slovenia with rivers. According to the share of water used, Slovenia is classified as a non-water stress-free country, meaning that the demand for water does not exceed the available quantity of water for a given period. Water in the Slovenian legal system has traditionally enjoyed special protection, the area of water has been regulated by specific laws in the past. The current water protection constitution does not explicitly mention the concept of public goods, which can only obtain a specific right of use and not a right of ownership. In view of the importance of water, it is also appropriate that water be given its place in the constitution. In terms of institutional water protection, the definition of water as a public good is important. The current Water Act defines water as a natural water public good, namely water in all forms, from inland water, sea, groundwater and water land. Water is used by everyone under the same conditions for drinking, bathing, diving, skating or other personal needs and water rights must be obtained for other uses. Water resources are managed by the State. Water resources serve as a priority for the population and, as such, they are not marketable goods, which means that for this purpose only the State or the drinking water supply municipality, which is a priority purpose, is authorised on water resources. In the event of a threat to drinking water supply, it is also possible to amend or eliminate water rights for other uses of water. It is important to ensure the protection of water resources important for drinking water supply and the proper way to carry out the public drinking water service. Water is a basic condition of human residence and is a good thing for which Slovenia is ahead of many countries. The supply of drinking water must be given full attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, a very nice welcome to today's session. As we speak of the Constitution, there is one fundamental constitutional principle that the Constitution must be read as a whole. And if we do so in connection with the topic that we are talking about today, then we can start with the 67th and the following articles. What's he saying? "The law defines the way property is acquired and consumed in such a way that its economic, social and environmental function is ensured." This is said, regardless of who the owner is, it must respect the constitutional principle that its ecological function must be respected and the State must ensure all the conditions and rules for compliance with this Article. This article was written in the Constitution on the explicit initiative of the real father of Slovenian autonomy, Dr. Jožet Pučnik. It is forgotten too often, but it is in the Constitution and must be respected, and most of the things we talk about today are solved in this way. If we go a little further in the Constitution, we get to Article 70, public goods and natural resources. There is probably no one who disagrees with the principle that the natural source of healthy drinking water is natural wealth, even rarer, more important, more precious natural wealth. And what does the Constitution say? The first paragraph has already been read by a representative of the Government, so I will read on, "The law lays down the conditions under which natural wealth can be exploited." It is said, only within the framework of the law can they be used. And secondly, "The law can determine that natural wealth may also be exploited by foreign persons, and lays down conditions for exploitation." So anything that should be regulated at the constitutional level today is, on this constitutional basis, acceptable and even necessary to regulate the law. The constitutional basis and, most importantly, the constitutional protection of natural wealth already exists in Slovenia, gentlemen, only the Constitution needs to be read. Then let's keep going. If we put ourselves in the position that this covers only natural resources, here is paragraph 72, which reads, "Everyone has the right to a healthy living environment under the law. The country is concerned about a healthy environment. To this end, the law lays down the conditions and methods for the management of economic and other activities." And, of course, it continues to stipulate that if someone causes damage, it is his duty to correct it and is done to correct it. This is said not only to protect water resources as a natural resource, but all water is protected because it is an integral part of a healthy living environment. Everything we decide today is already legally protected. However, if this is not respected, it must be said that the principle of polytology applies, that only one third is a legal norm, and two thirds is that of implementing the legal norm. This is why it is a somewhat unusual situation to draw attention to this situation in essence to the "former government", and the current SMC government has set it as its greatest task and acquisition in this mandate – to protect something that is already protected by law and is obviously not being implemented in the best possible way. There's been a lot of demagogies in this story. There has been a lot of talk about the fact that one foreign brewery giant now owns not knowing how many water resources in Slovenia and that this needs to be eliminated and protected and I don't know what. It is simply playing a socialist reflex, but what is tragic about this story, as an argument, has nothing to do with what we are dealing with today; for today we are dealing with the issue of natural drinking water sources. This is said to be industrial and those who are intended for entrepreneurship, in fact, it does not touch. Except for the part where he says they have access to a place where they're double, to private people and to people. So it's all settled, ladies and gentlemen. And what's going on today? Apparently a lot of noise for nothing, as a very well-known writer said in the past. Finally, if we read very well and reflect on these constitutional standards that I have read, and look at what is being proposed now, you will see that everything is already covered — if we want to see it and implement it. Everything is already protected; natural wealth is protected, a healthy environment, water is an integral part of a healthy environment, everything already enjoys constitutional protection. In the end, the only thing left is the principle within which water is to be supplied or transported by water. These are supposed to be local communities. That's the only thing that's really like that. This is a huge question, however, if this is, for the first time, a constitutional norm, if it is a constitutional norm. There's a lot to talk about. Secondly, whether this will always be an ideal solution. It must be a good solution. If there are ever any foss and bi-neighbourly disputes, it may become a problem under certain conditions. That's probably not the wisest thing to do to put this purely into the constitution. I'm sorry if I've ruined anyone's joy now for what it was meant to be, but the Constitution has to be read, and then we'd know that water is like a natural resource of natural drinking water already protected at the constitutional level. In order for even a constitutional law to be established — it is not necessary — it can be determined that the natural riches can also be exploited by foreigners. Only if the law allows them to do so. This has already been written in the Constitution, so no constitution has to be changed. We can ask ourselves what the constitutional norm really means, that everyone has the right to drinking water. The constitutional norm can then also be that everyone has the right to fresh air, everyone has the right to light. These are about the same standards. Is that really part of the constitution? You will say yes, but the big question is whether this answer is correct: yes or no. If the matter is already protected, if the good is already protected, if human rights are already protected, then why is it necessary to make a political circus out of it, except of course for obtaining political points? Because then we can move on, then we can come up with every citizen and every citizen having the right to a sound minded government. That would be, say, an excellent constitutional norm. Then, of course, a question would be raised as to how, if the president in the middle of the mandate says that Slovenia is still a mafia country after two years. That's a little awkward. If anyone else were in power, they would probably have shouted that they had done damage to Slovenia, the jokers would probably have said that they should not betray the greatest state secrets, but the realists would have said, he already knows what kind of people he put in the key places. But do constitutional standards really belong to the constitution? That's for us to decide today. In the SDS, we certainly believe that these goods are now adequately protected, that this change is not necessary, that it is only necessary to implement the provisions of the Constitution and protect natural resources and protect a healthy living environment and be consistent and there will be no problems and no problems. That is why we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The Desus Group is one of the signatories to the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The purpose of this proposal is to define access to water at the constitutional level as a general and fundamental right and to prevent the privatisation of water resources and to treat water as market goods. In order to ensure all of the above, water supply must be carried out as a non-profit public service. The fact is that our constitution does not contain a direct statement of water in any article, but it is only included in a rather loose concept of natural wealth. 70. Article 70 of the Constitution provides that the law lays down the conditions under which these natural resources may be exploited and that, if the law so provides, foreign persons may also exploit it. It is precisely because of this liberality of this article and because water is becoming an increasingly valuable source, it is our assessment that it is essential that the Constitution clearly defines access to drinking water as the general and fundamental rights of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. It must also be established that drinking water supply will be carried out as a non-profit public service, preventing the treatment of water and natural water resources as marketed and privatised goods. We cannot and must not close our eyes to the fact that, due to the rapid growth of the global population and the resulting increased needs of agriculture, which is expected to provide the ever-increasing number of people with essential food, we will face a shortage of water, which will increase pressure on existing water resources, and when a source becomes rare or difficult to access, there will be a tendency to usurp this resource by rich individuals and corporations. While we have very good legislation on water protection, drinking water supply and quality water supply in our country, it is regrettable that the legal order on the one hand is subject to the European legal order and, on the other hand, laws can change quickly and easily with each new government, so in our view the Constitution is also the one that offers the best protection of access to drinking water for all, if the articles are duly recorded. To ensure that the constitutional change is really written in the right way, Members were assisted by an expert group of prominent Slovenian lawyers, who, as I believe, do not think that the current water protection regime is sufficient. They have therefore drafted the word of Article 70a, which regulates the manner in which non-profit public service is carried out by the State or through transfer to direct administrative and self-government local communities, the priority and sustainability of the supply of drinking water and water to households and the clear definition of water as non-marketable goods. According to our assessment, such addition to the Constitution will ensure adequate, universal access to drinking water, while still allowing economic exploitation of water resources, such as the filling of bottled water, the use of non-alcoholic beverages and so on. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that by changing the Constitution we will not prevent the implementation of the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative. By allowing certain water resources to remain available to the economy under certain conditions, we will allow our country to take advantage of the competitive advantage that we have as a country extremely rich in water resources. Nevertheless, water resources are still available to economic exploitation, and it is essential that the provision of drinking water to the population be clearly recorded. Other forms of exploitation may be permitted only when they are provided with sustainable and smooth supply of drinking water. We must be aware that the inclusion of the right to drinking water in the Constitution is only the first step towards establishing a non-profit public service for drinking water supply. The proposed addition to the Constitution will require major changes to the Environmental Protection Act, the Water Act, the Economic Public Services Act and the Local Self-Government Act and, last but not least, the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Members and Members of the Desus Group believe that, after almost two years of writing into the Constitution, forgive me, since we met in Parliament with the first initiatives, the time has come for us to register the right to drinking water in the Constitution. In the country there is a broad consensus for such an act, not least the petition for the entry of an inalienable right to water into the Constitution has been signed by more than 50,000 people in just one month and a half. For all these reasons, we will support the decision in our parliamentary group to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law, as well as a position in the draft constitutional law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u12	Honorable President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The concern for the fellow human being, the concern for citizens and citizens begins in caring for the nature around us. Nature and its gifts are the ones we live from and enable us to survive. Despite all technology, progress and development, despite being human, this society all too often imagines that they are independent and self-sufficient from nature, that knowledge can exceed nature, but we may regret globalisation and progress show that these often have exactly the opposite effect from what is expected. For instead of creating conditions for human concern and well-being, in the name of capital and other narrow interests, the most elementary systems in nature are being destroyed, thus undermining the important balance and nature and creating too many gaps in society that lead to bad things: extortion, war, poverty, hunger and even political and economic instability. Few in this room would have thought, 100, 50 or 15 years ago, that someday we would have come to a point where, not politics, the whole society would have to set clear boundaries for the protection of natural goods. Those who have recently felt that we have plenty of water, this was also unimaginable to Slovenia, where the water is still sufficient. As the global population grew and more intense globalisation trends began to grow, drinking water began to grow. Unfortunately, this trend has split in two ways; one path leads to increasing awareness and the importance of taking care of natural resources, including water, while the other, which unfortunately has more and more financial support, is unfortunately heading towards the exploitation of water resources, mainly with a view to making a profit. This second path has also looked for its shortcuts in Europe also with those who should be on the side of us, us people, not on the side of capital. In fact, how can we explain the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament on concessions in 2012, which has very skillfully provided extensions for the privatisation of water resources? We have recognised this directive as extremely harmful and current President of the Social Democrats, and then President of the Committee on Agriculture Dejan Židan placed this issue at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance, in particular to discuss the position of the Republic of Slovenia in the Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the award of concession contracts, two conclusions: that universal access to fundamental human rights is maintained in the field of public services and that the possibility of amending legislation that would prevent possible future privatisation will continue to be discussed and will continue to ensure free access to drinking water for all citizens and citizens. Why does it seem important to me to point this out? It is not a matter of who, when and how he did not detect and how he could not react to any content, but of the fact that today, when we have before us a proposal to amend the Constitution, we will be able to know that these initiatives have not only come about and only on the basis of some pre-existing expectations or reactions to some negative trends, but that they have their roots in concrete actions and concrete acts, whose adoption has fallen into the water precisely because some European Union countries and more than a million and a half European citizens have said no: not liberalisation, not ownership, not profitability at the expense of water sources; and that the right to drinking water. Thus, during the previous mandate, an important part of the policy has been consolidated that it is not enough just to resist the increasing pressure on drinking water liberalisation. In order to get a boost in Europe as well, to protect drinking water as a good that must be accessible to all citizens and citizens, our country has been given a space of discussion to change the constitution. In this regard, the Social Democrats have not hesitated that the political will, in this case the fundamental right to protect our water resources, and ultimately our citizens and citizens, must be empowered through the completion of our highest legal act, the Constitution. We are pleased that this initiative has also revived with a new mandate and that, fortunately, most of the policy has been able to unify itself by signing this initiative, later through the expressed trust of others, with regard to the completion of the Constitution. Here, we thank the good and comprehensive part of the section that worked in the process before the Constitutional Commission. The group has prepared a good text that responds to doubts, questions and concerns related to the right to drinking water in an integrated manner. Similarly, the text sets up a dense sieve of all possible interventions in this area in the future and especially in the future. After all, it tells our people that Slovenian policy is flexible enough and responsible enough to overcome this political time and space, and for these and future generations it preserves our natural goods and the right to access people, not capital. This is of crucial importance to the Social Democrats. In addition, let me add that this is the first step that others must follow so that this supplement can be fully realized. In the future, we must also accept the necessary additions and amendments to the sectoral legislation and that crucial one, in particular respect for the content and communication of this constitutional amendment. That is why today is not the time – I expect majority support to be achieved in the process and also in the reform of the Constitution – to put this matter on the shelf as solved, but to get an ever-increasing impetus for the work that awaits us in the future; to work to remain receptive to the protection of our natural wealth, which should serve for the benefit of all our citizens and citizens, so that everyone has the right to drinking water. Your Honor! I believe that we are witnesses of a crucial turning point when a policy with a hand in hand with civil initiatives and the voice of people sets firm foundations for the constitutional protection of drinking water. Today we will show that, despite differences, we are responsible, mature and united in our common intention to hear, to see the changes that are taking place around us, so we are responding proactively and in a timely manner. The Social Democrats will therefore unanimously support the constitutional change process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u13	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the United Left, we have supported the entry of the right to drinking water into the Constitution from the very beginning. As appetites are growing after the treatment of drinking water as market goods and consequently the privatisation of water resources, we believe that the definition of drinking water at constitutional level is all the more important. For this reason, we have also contributed signatures to the proposal. The Constitution provides that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms. Even more specifically, the Constitution defines the right to freedom of movement, dignity, electoral rights, the right to a healthy living environment and could also be listed. However, if people are denied access to drinking water, all other rights actually become irrelevant. Water is the foundation of life, we all need it, and luckily we have enough right now. But fortunately, he did not guarantee that it would last forever. The professional public warns that groundwater levels are declining. At this point, this is not yet a threat, but in the future this could happen quickly. If, in addition to the warnings of the profession, we take into account the ever-increasing appetites after privatisation, the treatment of drinking water as market goods and the upcoming secret agreements such as TTIP and CETA, it is clear that something must be done in this regard. We cannot agree on the argument that this is a matter of fear for no valid reason. How great the appetites of international corporations are after the privatisation of water resources and how easy the European Union is to follow them was clear already in 2012 when the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union was adopted, also supported by Slovenia. The directive then encountered strong public opposition and more than one and a half million Europeans signed a petition against it. But to be comforted by the fact that this was a clear enough signal and similar attempts will not continue would be extremely naive. Secret agreements are ready, CETA is so-called fact and TTIP is at the door. The unwavering insistence on the temporary use and the creation of false hopes that ratification will also be necessary in national parliaments, and even more clearly indicate that the privatisation of water resources and the threat of smooth supply of drinking water is not an urgent issue which will not be present until twenty or thirty years later. This is a question that is in place today and a change of constitution is part of the answer that we think is absolutely necessary at this point. Critics of changing the Constitution for their opposition or non-support most often state the reason why there is no need for change, since we have legislation in this area sufficiently well regulated, but the law is a matter which unfortunately can change very quickly. The provisions of the law are totally irrelevant when it comes to European Union legislation having a direct effect, and legislation is irrelevant when it comes to international agreements, even those which contain a provision on provisional application. As a reason for the opposition, there is also often an argument that we have more water in Slovenia than enough and therefore there is no need for change. It is true that Slovenia is a water country, indeed, that water for the provision of the population is now more than enough, but we must not forget that this can change at the moment. Maybe not tomorrow, maybe not in ten years, but according to the latest statistics, people's supply may actually be at risk after twenty years. This also comes from Arso's data, which warns – I quote – that "the estimates of the quantitative state of groundwater bodies produced by Arso's hydrogeological service show a relatively good state. In recent years, however, concern has been raised about lowering levels in some areas of groundwater water bodies." End of quote. Subterranean water data are particularly alarming, with a supply of 97 percent of the population. At present, water is sufficient to supply drinking water to the population; enough to be able to use water at the same time to supply the population and at the same time to the beverage industry, but it has a concession. The last concession regulation was adopted by the Government last Thursday and the concession will be granted for thirty years with the possibility of renewal without a call for tender; until 2046 therefore. And for concession companies, it is not specified anywhere that the concession may be withdrawn or reduced if the use of water for the supply of the population and for the beverage industry is not possible. At present, however, residents and residents have nowhere to guard that water resources are primarily intended for drinking water supply. If we can illustrate the problem a little bit. During the summer months, we often witness the news that residents and residents are urged not to water the gardens because of the drought. Have you ever noticed the news that companies should reduce water depletion or reduce bottled water production due to drought? And this is one of the main reasons for the need to change the constitution. The change will make it clear that water resources are a priority for the provision of drinking water to the population. In order to achieve this objective, it should also be made clear that water resources are not marketable goods and that the provision of drinking water is placed under the sole responsibility or responsibility of the State or municipalities. And here the position of the United Left is quite clear: the change of constitution must be prepared to prevent concessions in this area. By summarizing our position in three key points. First time. Water must be accessible to all universally, and must be seen as a human right. The market and the profit motive, we know, are selecting access to goods based on property, which is totally unacceptable, so we need to protect the water from hunting for profits and prevent any form of privatisation. Another time. Examples from abroad show that private ownership of water is completely ineffective. The supply has deteriorated, prices have risen, and the profits of a handful of individuals and corporations have also jumped, and the neoliberal city authorities and governments have found that this is simply not possible from day to day, so the organisation of drinking water supplies is returning to the public domain, at the hands of citizens. The same reasons – the market organisation, capital and its exploitation – in the case of water show their doomsdayness to people, but they are also actually at work in other sectors. Third time. Public non-profit companies, which, following a sufficiently clear proposal to take over their supply of drinking water, are the only ones providing universal non-discriminatory access to goods to everyone on equal terms. At the same time, they are opening up the possibility of different, better governance than we have witnessed in Slovenia to this day. If all of this is to be achieved in practice, the text should be drafted in such a way that it is clear and unequivocally stated that everyone has the right to drinking water, that water resources are not marketable goods and that water resources cannot be privatised. We also believe that the change to the Constitution should unconditionally prevent concessions in the field of drinking water supply to both domestic and foreign companies. If the text is not ready to be taken into account, the new article will ultimately remain only a letter on paper. At present, the views that we will deal with later are afraid that they are going increasingly in this direction. There is certainly a need for further improvements here, but a little more about this later. Since we have only one attempt in this mandate to enter the right to drinking water into the Constitution, and this only possibility and opportunity is before us today, we will be in favour of a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with a colleague, dear colleague and colleagues! For 25 years we have our own country, we have recently celebrated the day of statehood, and at that time we certainly all understand what the state is; that country that we have established, the citizens, in order to serve us. The State is, of course, an organised political community, which has absolute sovereign authority in the space-limited territory. On 23 December we will also celebrate the 25th anniversary of our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also a time when, above all, the legislator of the Constitution should probably know the Constitution quite well and not only the Constitution and its articles, but also the interpretation of the Constitution. This is one such thick book or more books. So, the country is established for the sake of citizens to serve the citizens. Therefore, it also serves the citizens in this sense to provide them with a healthy living environment and all the necessary conditions necessary for life, including drinking water. So the supply of drinking water, the right to drinking water, is actually a matter of the normality of a country. Whether it is enshrined in the Constitution, of course it does no harm, but it is not necessarily necessary. We are aware today that both local communities and people themselves are once self-sustaining water networks and that drinking water today is extremely expensive for citizens, including those that are flowing through a water infrastructure co-financed by European funds. Water is the source of life, and that's what we've been learning in primary school, and elementary school students understand what water we think is the source of life. And yes, human life is especially precious, sacred, that is, untouchable, from beginning to natural death is untouchable to our understanding. What about the air? A few days ago, the International Energy Agency issued a report that is frightening. In this report, it highlights the impact of energy from fossil sources on air pollution and the deterioration of human health and points out the need to switch to clean energy sources. The International Energy Agency predicts that the poor air will take 4.5 million human lives every year, more than two Slovenias each year due to poor air. The record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, as it is said, is not necessarily necessary, is a matter of the normality of a country. Matter is well regulated in laws and regulations, which can still be adequately supplemented, to be improved if possible open problems need to be addressed. Here I would like to point to the Water Act, which is quite good marriage material, and if we are talking about drinking water, I would like to mention here and recommend reading the Drinking Water Regulation, which in 36 articles says very precisely what drinking water is like. While it is possible to record the right to drinking water in the Constitution, there are no legal obstacles. It should be noted, however, that the mere writing of the right to the Constitution, i.e. only the text 'everybody has the right to drinking water', has important legal consequences, since the provision in question is not purely of a programmatic nature. These consequences must be fully understood by us legislators. We wonder whether the basic purpose of the change in the Constitution is to prevent private economic operators, in particular foreign operators, from obtaining concessions for the provision of drinking water and water for the supply of households. If the answer is yes, it is necessary to radically and broadly change the current supply system, which the State is expected to provide through a non-profit public service. The consequences of the proposed regulation are even more problematic here. There are more open questions than we are aware of right now. The argument of the change or addition of constitutional material based on fear of the so-called troika, large companies and foreign corporations, in particular entities from EU Member States, is a political and not professional issue. If a policy decides to change the Constitution, then it must certainly not rush and carefully consider all the consequences of the proposed regime. Let me say that Members of New Slovenia support the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution. However, I would like to point a course here at once; therefore, in which direction would any change of the Constitution take place at all. For the first time, everyone has the right to drinking water. And perhaps even if it is necessary that natural water resources are naturally public good in the management of the country; those countries whose definition I gave at the beginning of my debate. The fact is that the articles of the Constitution must be short and understandable to all, to all citizens and citizens of this country, because the Constitution is intended for citizens. See only Article 2 of the Constitution, which in my view is one of the richest and also the most demanding; it says that Slovenia is a legal and social state. This article of the Constitution is tantamount to all the laws that are and will be adopted in the National Assembly, so it tantrums thousands of laws and consists of just a few words. So, we will be proposing a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u18	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why the debate on the right to drinking water — because there is a creative interpretation of legislation that can benefit those who today have the most money? Who is it? Multinationals. We can talk about the world of multinationals, not the world of countries. It's a starting point. As such, the Constitution does not provide sufficient protection for these human rights, and Slovenian legislation is subject to European legislation, but we have seen what someone with authority can implement to a lower level. And, of course, it is necessary to protect the right to drinking water in the constitution, so that it is clearly defined. What are the trends in the world? Privatisation of good companies, privatisation of infrastructure and privatisation of public services and public goods. And this is where the water is strategically, if we look at, the most important good – oil in the past, here were the biggest profits. Today it's water, in the future it'll be air or something. Therefore, these goods need to be protected, for it is the interest of multinationals to make high profits on these goods. What do these corporate groups want? They want to establish a deregulation system so that these profits will be as much as possible and that their profits will not be traceable and that they will pay as little tax as possible and will consequently be passed on to people to pay more for water, education, electricity and everything else. They lower environmental standards, the dirty industry – again to the detriment of people living in areas that are cheap but are environmentally vulnerable. And environmental regulations. Some stakeholders insist that they are such that on the one hand again means more profits for those who are already rich, more costs and poor living space for others. Then there is the function of the state to protect the inhabitants in order to protect small people. What is a broader issue, not just water, which the state must take care of – protect animal and plant species. We're being subjected to multinationals here. Trade in things that thinn the ozone layer. Trade in CO2 coupons – this is all at the expense of the future air quality that we depend on. Illegal waste disposal – big profits in the waste trade. Cutting down forests, naked and all that. Illegal fishing that destroys the oceans, which binds itself to water again. It all points to some new markets that are being entered by those who are trying to destroy the environment and try to make people's lives worse. It is the function of the state to protect its people and here the interests of multinationals and the interests of people are being violated. The state has to take care of people, because they're still dependent on them. The protection of the right to drinking water is one of these fundamental rights and the Constitution must protect this right; namely, the State must protect the interests of local communities, take into account the interests of NGOs, civil associations and protect these interests in a wider environment at European Union level and beyond. If I go to the end. We will, of course, support the proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The trends ahead of us show an ever-increasing deterioration of the environment for people, so the country must go beyond such events and prevent the privatisation of those resources that are most important to people. Looking at what has been happening lately; two strategic raw materials for Slovenia: wood and water. In the area of forests, wood has made many mistakes. What we see now is that the social economies and especially the company established for forest care do not work as it should. There are no control mechanisms in place, and many people are losing their jobs. Given the fact that the President of the Government has stated that Slovenia is dominated by stakeholders, I fear that we will be late with such protection of people, especially when talking about drinking water. It is up to the Government to decide and protect human rights as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u20	Your Honor! Drinking water is the basic human good, and having the natural water resources they give us is a great wealth and privileges. Nature has been generous to our country, so in the SMC we are convinced that water resources with the highest possible responsibility must be protected in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SMC, we would like this call by the National Assembly to be proud that, regardless of political differences, political consensus has been reached on the registration of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, since we are confident that this decision will be one of the more important decisions for the future. The positive consequences of including the right to drinking water among constitutional rights will be the most evident in the future when water becomes a key asset of life. It is necessary to ensure that in the future, sufficient natural water resources are available for our craft in the environment to provide safe drinking water for the population. By doing so, Slovenia will become one of the few Member States of the European Union with such a provision in the Constitution, or in addition to Slovakia, only another EU country, which will protect water resources at the highest level. Slovakia has also regulated the drinking water sector at the constitutional level, including that groundwater and water flows are owned by the State and that the State is obliged to protect and care for natural resources, including water, on behalf of its citizens and of future generations. There is also a ban on the export of water from the country, including via a water network, an exception to this rule is the water intended for personal use, bottled water and water intended for humanitarian assistance. At constitutional level, these rights are recorded in the rest of the world only in South Africa and Uruguay; the right to sufficient food and water is enshrined in the 27th Article of its Constitution of the Republic of South Africa; Uruguay also introduced access to drinking water and sanitation into the Constitution on the basis of the 2004 referendum. Other countries, in particular all European countries, protect the right to drinking water at the legal level. That is why we want Slovenia to follow the example of those countries that have decided to protect water at constitutional level and that it could also become within the United Nations a so-called leader of the country, who will also at global level advocate for the perception of the right to water as public goods and fundamental human rights. Slovenia certainly does not have to wait for some of the remaining countries, which are discussing the protection of their natural wealth just as we are today. Slovenia must defend its own interests, instead of doing so, no one else will. In the last debate at the Constitutional Commission, we were also warned by representatives of the leadership profession who want a higher level of legal protection, as threats to the coming climate change, the associated economic and political pressures and other global trends, and the latter will enable us to make sovereign decisions about the management of our natural water resources in the future. In the SMC, because of the fact that in this case it is most apparent for our common cause and the future – drinking water is a fundamental life-saving asset – we have decided that in the constitutional process or in the process of amending the Constitution, we will take a different approach than has been the case so far when only Members have the right to propose amendments. Drinking water is the best example for us to implement new models of public water good management or to move from individual rights to the Community principle or to protect drinking water as a natural public good and community governance. That is why we have taken the broadest possible democratic approach to the drafting of the substantive proposal and have therefore connected ourselves with the Civil Initiative for Slovenia and Freedom and the professional public in the field of leadership. Together, we have drawn up a proposal at the base of the substantive starting points of more than 50,000 signatories to the civil initiative, which we believe will constitute an appropriate substantive and constitutional basis for further political consideration, which in this case will be based on direct cooperation and a solution to the public and the profession concerned. The last approach for us is not only a qualitative upgrade to the constitutional process, which will allow a more in-depth constitutional debate and decision-making through the participation of the legal and water profession and representatives of the civil initiative, but rather a shift from policy exclusiveness to the inclusion of citizens, the inclusion of citizens and professional initiatives for the quality of finding the best solutions. Slovenia will become one of the few countries that have protected water resources at the highest constitutional level by means of a constitutional record, and we also want it to become the first country in which this constitution will result from the common solutions of citizens, professions and policies in the care of our environment. We would therefore like to thank the civil initiative and at the same time all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have signed a petition for the right to drinking water in the Constitution, because it is this commitment that has opened up a lively constitutional debate on one of the most important Slovenian natural goods that will enable it to be further protected in the future. For the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, supporting the recording of the right to water into the Constitution was never a question, since we have already committed ourselves to it in the Coalition Treaty. But for us it was a key way of writing, because we wanted to follow the goal that the right to drinking water would be accessible to everyone under the same conditions. Water as a natural resource is a vital asset that is gradually gaining increasing value and is therefore also extremely attractive to corporations and multinationals who, in the exploitation of water resources, see great opportunities for profit and also have an interest in privatising this strategic good. Water is a source of life, and as climate change and the growing population at planetary level become a source of rare benefits, it is more likely to become a market commodity. Slovenia will also follow the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations on Human Rights to Water and Sanitary by recording the right to drinking water in the Constitution. The opinion of the section or their proposal to create a new 70th Article is a very good basis, and we supported it on the Constitutional Commission. However, we believe that complementing their proposal to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not always have sufficient access to safe drinking water is essential for sustainable, prioritisation and community management of natural water resources, so we have proposed amendments that have been supported by a sufficient majority on the Constitutional Commission. In preparing proposals to supplement the position of the draft constitutional law, the SMC Group was very attentive to the objectives of writing this right. Already in the SMC programme, we have identified water and forests as our key natural resources, which we need to give them special care. We all need water for life, so we agree that it is particularly important to stress that natural water resources serving the priority and sustainable supply of safe drinking water and household water in this part are not market goods. Let the state directly ensure that safe drinking water is made available to residents or households and the economy. The SMC Group pursues the objective of not interfering at the same time with a free economic initiative and in Slovenia allowing the simultaneous use of safe drinking water both for the population or the household and for the economy, while the economic use must not jeopardise the natural water source for the provision of the population. Water can also remain undisturbed in the use of the economy, where water is also needed from the production industry to the food industry, it can be used for energy, reactive purposes and so on, but at the same time we must not allow anyone to own or own natural water resources, or that also multinationals and private parties can manage natural water resources and provide safe drinking water for the population. Only in this way will we be able to prevent possible negative consequences, such as the promotion of supply, due to the pursuit of the greatest possible profits of private suppliers of safe drinking water. The latter can only be provided through a non-profit public service in the direction of the State or after the transfer they will take over the public service. In addition, we have endeavoured to commit all stakeholders, especially the country and the municipality, to the protection of public interest, the protection of natural water resources and also to the effective management and provision of safe drinking water. We believe that the Constitutional Commission has drawn up a position that provides a good basis for the continuation of the constitutional audit process in the autumn of the Constitutional Commission and that we will achieve the basic objectives through it. This is: to define natural water resources as a natural water public good, to define how to manage natural water resources, to provide safe drinking water for all people in Slovenia, to ensure that water resources serve people as a priority and sustainable service, to protect natural water resources from over-exploitation and the possibility of ownership, to ensure both general and specific water use and to effectively manage public non-profit water supply services with safe drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution. In the first place, the representative of the Magi proposer spoke. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go. And after you, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following the presentation of the parliamentary positions, it is clear that the proposal before us will receive very broad support, which, of course, I am genuinely pleased. In fact, no parliamentary group has expressed its position to vote against what is very positive. I am particularly pleased that a year and a half after the Alliance has tabled this proposal, the largest party in this Parliament has also learned that water is so important that it is right to be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you on behalf of the motioners for this. I would also like to thank the expert commission, who has done her work in the first stage and in her opinion found that the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law is justified and proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be adopted. But I would still appeal to my colleagues and colleagues. If you have listened to the opinion of the parliamentary groups, there is some ambiguity with regard to the amendments already tabled. I hope that the process will continue so that we will all remain together until the end of the New Slovenia to the United Left; that due to the prestige of one party we will not all be threatened together. I sincerely want this, and I sincerely hope that, in a subject as important as the change of constitution, we listen and that we really all have only one interest together: it is, to protect water primarily for our children, our grandchildren and even generations away.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the word to prepare for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I, too, welcome the consensus expressed today in the National Assembly at the beginning of this procedure. Of course, it took quite a bit of work to get here, and I believe we'll stay on this train. Not only is it political consensus, but I think it is a social consensus that something needs to be done about our water resources. Why is that? That's the first point. Because I think it is the task of the State, independent of who rules in this country, to establish control over the conditions for the development of this society. However, supervision of the conditions for the development of this society today means, in particular, and also includes water resources, because water is becoming a strategic asset. This is something that is supposed to give rise to more debate now, but the future is uncertain – processes can take place that are beyond the control of this country and beyond the control of this Parliament, which in any way expresses the sovereignty of our country. When we talk about this, the question is immediately asked, and yes, the concepts are already regulated at the legal level. This time it's something else. It's about raising protection from marital to constitutional. That doesn't matter. All that has been said about how natural wealth has been protected so far is always protected through law; the law is relatively simple to change, and the constitution is much harder. The second and second arguments why our Constitution should be read in its entirety are Article 8 of the Constitution. Article 8 of the Charter of the International Treaty which has been adopted is above the laws. Of course they're under the Constitution, but they're still above the law. Now; until we were part of the integration process, in particular the European Union, to which we transferred the exercise of the work of sovereign rights, it was always through the ratification process that the National Assembly, through ratification, could consider whether it would give something over the legal system or any other arrangement, that the ordinary majority was often the only criterion, except where otherwise prescribed in the Constitution. However, we are now in a situation where certain treaties, because the transfer of sovereign rights has created its own competence, in particular the European Union, in negotiations with everyone else, may arise when, in fact, this guardian cannot be included at the right time. Therefore, putting on a constitutional level is so important. That's part of the story. The second part of the story is our political one. We're a modern center party. A modern centre party advocates social liberalism. What social liberal means — that it is jointly and individually conditioned with each other. There's not one that has an absolute advantage over the other. That is why this concept, which we know and we have not made it very clear on a constitutional level, without a legal basis – because the law regulates all these conditions for now – so public good, naturally public good as a source for the protection of natural water resources. It's a very important matter! This is a non-proprietary principle, and the state must not own it either. It's not about going beyond private, stately, whatever we're looking at here, there's something that we have in common, without this long-term condition we can't hold on. What is out of the debate and what is absolutely clear from that draft which is now being prepared is that it has priority over all other uses for supply and safe drinking water. And because we're rich in water, we can afford other uses, but this one has the advantage. But we don't know how this is going to go any further. We do not know the future in terms of how rich we will be in 50 years with water resources and what we will have to do to preserve this natural wealth we have. This is again a precautionary principle, which is the most appropriate starting point in the future when it comes to accepting matters that come from the future, in fact, in what way you can protect yourself. So this precautionary principle seems very important to me. And finally, all of this will allow the right to safe drinking water to be guaranteed. At this point, the word "safe" wouldn't go down, but in 50, 100 years, it'll be a concept. This concept is already being used by some because they do not nearly have the quality of drinking water that we have right now. And all of this needs to be made possible. Of course, this is a matter in the management of the country and the local communities, since the country is one and the other, but none of which can own it and can also transfer it as property, and this has been very clear from the current debate. So, like I said, I'm glad for that agreement. I have said why it is important, given the constitutional concept of the relationship between international law, that is, between international treaties over which we no longer have full control, and the laws actually put this level of protection at the constitutional level, that this concept of natural public good is very important, since it allows everyone the right to drinking water. These two are related, and I think it's the only right. I certainly hope that the whole process will be as well – and I will try to make the whole process as inclusive as possible, including everyone who cares about this right being protected at constitutional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u25	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Dr. Laszlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! After this opening part, I have to say there's not much to add. Yet, water represents the most important good without which there is no life. We need water for drinking, hygiene, growth, development, we also use it in agriculture, the economy and more. These water resources are unevenly and unjustifiably distributed among people both in the world and unfortunately in us. Some in the world take this water good for granted, while others face the lack of water elsewhere, which in the worst cases can mean death. We also have settlements in Slovenia where people do not have access to healthy drinking water, which cannot be proud of us. In the previous term, as we have heard from the views of the parliamentary groups, the interest was that healthy drinking water or safe drinking water be enshrined in the constitution. We have continued this very intensively in this mandate and, after a good year and several months, we have come to the key point of entering or starting with the constitutional regulation of this Article of the Constitution. Of course, water is regulated by law, but the legal provisions can change. Notwithstanding the fact that the SDS Group has indicated that we have this in the constitution, I believe that the entry of water into the Constitution should be further regulated. Thus, simply regulating access to drinking water as a general and fundamental right to the Constitution is the only key protection of the right to public water supply. What does that mean? This goes beyond the possible privatisation of water resources, which, in part, we might be able to talk about right now, but we now have this regulated by the concession. Slovenia is relatively rich in natural resources, but this does not mean that we can behave machetely, these resources are not permanent and all the analyses show that this will not be the case in the future. The climate situation is changing, of course, and we are expected to face a shortage in the future. We are already facing a shortage of water in the driest months, but given all the privatisation and everything that has been going on lately, it is possible to imagine that large water companies will want to gain an opportunity for monopolistic profits. Our infrastructure is long-term, there is no means to rebuild this infrastructure, so it is possible to expect that it will come and decide that the reconstruction and management will move into the private sector. In this way, strong corporations could be formed to shape the future of our water and the supply of drinking water. Privatisation can do much damage to the environment and people, and its aim is to increase the profits of water corporations. This should be strongly said no, as we have also shown by the parliamentary groups in today's debate. The main problem of privatisation would be the high price of water or connections to private water pipes, which would determine the separate price of water by their investments. We can also sum up the fact that we have bottled water, bottled water, which is significantly more expensive than it is now, flowing through these water springs or pipes, so that many of these waters could not afford it. This is why it is crucial that we incorporate and protect these water resources into the Constitution, and this is certainly crucial, and I therefore support the proposal to initiate a constitutional change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u27	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Prepare Dr. Lázsló Göncz and Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u28	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! This is a proposal which he finds difficult to oppose because tell me a Member and a Member who could oppose ensuring that citizens have access to clean drinking water. He's not here! The fundamental question in which we may wonder whether this entry is actually necessary and whether the current regime is appropriate and appropriate and that this political action may not be merely an action to mobilise certain voters, but not enough to bring about some concrete changes. Because if you look at a given situation in Slovenia, you will see that several citizens still have, or hundreds of citizens, still inadequate access to water resources, not because of privatisation, but because public companies operating water do not provide infrastructure for these people to access this water. If we look a little wider, we could rightly say that Slovenia is a relatively water-rich country, a significant difference with some African countries, as well as Asian countries, so it is even sadder that some citizens are still still citizens today, in 21. For centuries, they have no access to clean drinking water. I would look at the matter first and foremost from another point of view; why this is so where the reason is. I think that we have done things the wrong way, that this pressure to enter this right into the constitution was due to the fear of privatisation, which is actually being prevented by Slovenian legislation. Because if you read the existing Water Act, which is in force today, Article 15 states that inland water and water land are naturally public good. Until this law is amended, no one will be able to privatise these waters. So, to put it domestically, we are talking about something that is not possible after today's legislation. All those who have discussed the great fear of the privatisation of water resources, let me only reassure you that today's legislation makes this impossible. If we want to make this possible, privatisation, of course, we should change that in this House. These Members, or this majority, should be changed. If you want this to be harder, then I don't have a problem writing it into the constitution because you need a simple majority to change the law, while you need a two-thirds majority to change the constitution. In this spirit and in this sense, I can support these changes. In fact, today the water in Slovenia, thank God, is not privatised. Of course, you also have water managers who are private. I can tell you two specific cases that I know; one is the stone pipeline from where I come from, where the plumbing is run by a private utility, the other is in Laska. But these two companies did not privatise water resources because we are still all citizens of these water resources, but they have a concession to manage these resources, or if I am even more precise; how a private company will manage our water resources in Kamnik depends on what concession contract the local community will conclude with it. Once again, however, people or through their elected representatives in the municipal world have an impact on the concession contract. My very clear message would be that, after today's legislation, the privatisation of water resources in Slovenia is not possible, so laws should be changed and if we want to prevent it at any time in the future, it is by transferring or raising it from the level of law to the level of the constitution to make this difficult. All right, I can see the legitimate and correct political objective in this. However, in order for certain concrete fears to be the reality that we are already talking about today, I regret that I cannot agree with this, because things also need to be presented honestly. I know where these fears come from. I think that a lot of things are produced by happening in Africa in particular, where you have multinationals, where countries or those parliaments in African countries have not only allowed them to manage some concession with water resources, but these multinationals have become owners of these water resources. In such cases, however, this is of course an essential problem and a problem. But, as I said, thank God we have these things in Slovenia so far. Another thing the president of the National Assembly pointed to, which surprised me a little. I don't know, maybe my legal knowledge is too weak, but I come from a purely principle. As he himself said, international treaties adopted are above the Constitution and above the laws and that we are now entering this right into the Constitution because there is a risk that some international treaty on this matter or management of water resources could be different, which could be problematic for Slovenian citizens. It just doesn't work out. If there are international treaties over the Constitution and laws, then even entering into the Constitution is absolutely no good for us, it is sound and logical for me to say so. As far as concrete matters are concerned, for example, TTIP is now one of those things where certain fears are justified so that this international treaty will make certain things uncomfortable for Slovenia, perhaps also for the management of water resources. Once again, I would like to make it clear that we are adopting all international treaties in this House, so this House, the House of Homes, must ensure that we do not accept harmful things for Slovenian citizens. Thus, we are the first guardians in the adoption of international treaties not to do so. However, when it comes to certain delegated powers to a higher level, to the level of the European Union, if you will, we are part of this Union and we are involved in the co-establishment of international treaties that the European Union is making with certain third countries or the Slovenian Directive and Regulation. Of course, we need an active foreign policy, including an active country at the level of the European Union, to keep an eye on all possible traps in developing such international treaties with third countries. That's how I didn't understand the point of president of the National Assembly. Maybe he'll explain it further. In order to ensure that this right is enshrined in the Constitution, it does not simply go together if we say in the same breath that there are international treaties over the Constitution and laws. So there will be no mistake, of course I support the entry of this right into the Constitution. As I said, it is a legitimate way or a legitimate political approach that simply by means of the current law, which prevents the privatisation of water resources, we raise to a higher standard, to a constitutional level, by making any later attempts in later years difficult or prevent. However, things are well arranged for the time being, at least as far as legislation is concerned. Of course, the fundamental problem is that those who manage these water resources, and in Slovenia it is still a large majority of public companies or public utilities – I personally know two municipalities, maybe more, one is rocky, one is a company in Laska, which is a private company and operates a wider water or water infrastructure – but most of them still run public utilities and this would be required to provide infrastructure in remote villages, even in remote areas, so that these Slovenian citizens can also have clean drinking water. Since it will be of no use to us if we write clean drinking water into the constitution here with a hundred percent consent, this right will only be a dead letter on paper unless the local community, in this case the congregation, builds the necessary and necessary infrastructure so that these people can get to this drinking water. I know what the mayors will say because the mayors are legally responsible for ensuring that this water is ensured that the problem is that the machete state also treats them in financing the municipalities themselves. If the municipalities had more money, water networks and infrastructure would be much easier to build in order to provide clean drinking water. He himself would seek elsewhere to make a real change for the better in our citizens. I think that if today we really want to provide clean drinking water to all Slovenian citizens, then we should first of all think about how to increase certain earmarkings for Slovenian municipalities in order to build appropriate water networks. This would be a far greater contribution for Slovenian citizens to have pure drinking water than this entry into the Constitution itself. But to conclude, as I said, there will be no mistake, I support this to be signed in order to raise the level. But we have a lot to do before that, so that citizens can get to clean drinking water.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez wanted a word for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you. My friend Tonin, I'm sorry you misunderstood me. I said the constitution was at the top, then the international treaties came. But the international treaty is above our laws. Thus, this relationship is absolutely necessary to be known. It is not that international treaties over our constitution are possible, but, in relation to the EU, it is also possible to put certain international treaties into operation by applying them temporarily before the National Assembly can do anything, and it has sent the whole country to the constitutional level to make sure that this level, at least as far as this right is concerned, does not happen. It binds everything. At this point, we are the ones who play the role of the one who accepts the Constitution and therefore this level of constitutional protection is so important. The present is one that makes it legal and this legal level is under international treaties, and we have had an option or no, but the Constitution is the crown of our rule of law and we must all respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Gonch has the word. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! From the outset, I have been following this debate and this content since the proposal was tabled. To introduce, these two concepts, or these two questions, are already emerging from the beginning, whether the current constitutional regime is sufficient for this issue to be settled and whether it is appropriate to upgrade it. It is clear that any such matter, any such proposal also prejudges the current political situation and the situation, or anything that may have been linked to any abuse in this area – and probably in this case too – but I must first say that I have understood it primarily as a reminder of the strategic importance of drinking water. That is why I have also stressed from the first step that, from my point of view, the change in the Constitution is the upgrade of the current regime and I am in the position of those who support that the constitutional aspect is the one where we need to put it even more consistently. Of course, on the other hand, it is also possible to accept explanations that if we go to read the Constitution and in particular to explain that more or less this constitutional level is already more or less assured, but I believe that, as I said before, we already have a strategic importance of water and problems that are already occurring in our wider space because it is not only Slovakia, where the situation is similar to that of Slovenia, we already have a drinking water problem in Europe; therefore, it is doubtless from this fundamental point of view that this concern is expressed somewhere. [[…]] I will not go into discussions today, which, to some extent, have been initiated, with regard to possible privatisation and possible abuses in this area, but the fact that these issues will be raised very quickly in amending laws resulting from constitutional change. I therefore believe that this first step is likely to be taken – or I am also assessing that some atmosphere in the National Assembly, which prejudges the act itself of amending the Constitution as such, will be very difficult in the adoption of sectoral laws from this point of view and will also need these substantial debates in order to respond to those questions that are still questionable today. We could have deepened into some nuances that have already been exposed today or have been exposed to the Constitutional Commission, but I think we may have kept this for the next debate. I would simply point out that the expert group appointed by the Constitutional Commission, at least after my opinion, has done its work thoroughly, has also presented the arguments of possible overriding or redefining of this area, so that it was a very good basis for the actual debate, but what I would like to stress in particular is that the expert group has indeed prepared an appropriate basis for deciding on this issue at this stage. I will therefore support this proposal or these proposals in particular in the faith to draw attention to the strategic importance of drinking water and also to the fact that drinking water should never become the basis for any discrimination, not from an economic, social or any other point of view, because unfortunately in certain cases and also in certain areas or areas of the world, this is already happening and should therefore be borne in mind in this respect and in this respect. To conclude, I would simply point out that, with a strictly methodological aspect of constitutional regulation and constitution, questions may also be raised as to whether this is actually necessary or not, but would have stopped at this point. I believe that it is only more important that this warning be recorded at constitutional level and that we all together meet the challenges of today's time, but unfortunately many experts are assessing the strategic importance of drinking water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u33	Procedural, Mr. Mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u34	I would like to correct only one mistake; the citizen of Jože Pušnik has just written to me and warned me that the water or water supply in Laška is no longer managed by Pivovarna Laško, but by the Municipal Company Laško. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u35	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In view of the fact that today's debate is being held in two stages or if a decision is to be taken by a two-thirds majority vote to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, I would like to speak first of the reasons why a procedure for amending the Constitution should be initiated in this first part. The fact is that Article 70 of the Constitution very loosely regulates this area and speaks of the law establishing that natural wealth may also be exploited by foreign persons and the conditions for exploitation; that is, this law. So a very open article in the Constitution, which can become an easy prey mainly in the international financial institutions, represented by the so-called so-called financial institutions, can be said to be an infamous troika: the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission. In fact, regardless of the legal order in a given country, this troika takes the right and lays down the conditions under which, say, it is necessary to remedy the banking system or, in this case, grant a concession to a private corporation which will, of course, manage water resources afterwards. It is worth recalling that this process has also started in Slovenia because 2 million citizens in Europe have resisted this principle, which was triggered by the so-called troika, in order to reach concession contracts also the largest global corporation. The problem is that when they receive such a concession, they generally raise the price of water and lower the cost of managing the water network for only one reason – as much profit as possible, as much profit. The second is, of course, whether people have the money to even buy those children or a litre of water; and this is a question that we have to solve with the enrollment by changing the constitution. That is why, of course, I will support this procedure to change the Constitution and also the practical cases that we have in the world prove this thesis that I have presented; that is, only profit is the one that ordered concessions to be granted and that they do not manage water resources from state public companies or from local public companies. These principles are also explained in the proposal to start a constitutional change and let me just say, something similar has happened in Greece in Thessaloniki and Athens, where Suez bought out a share of the Thessaloniki water supply, water has become dangerous to health, significantly more expensive, in Paris as well – a significant rise in water prices – and Barcelona also raises water prices and the problem of pooling the water system in Bulgaria and so on. If we really want to protect and give everyone in Slovenia the right to water, we need to change the Constitution, so I will support the beginning of the constitutional amendment to this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u37	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am also associating myself with thoughts, and I am really glad that today, in the National Assembly among the various Members, there is a broader consensus that the use of safe drinking water will be enshrined in the Constitution as something our group is an inseparable good. If I speak from the perspective of a liberal person, i.e. someone who politically belongs to a social-liberal current, I must stress that I firmly believe that an individual can develop some of his creative and free-thinking potentials only when he has a basic capacity, some basic civilisational framework of his life, which certainly includes the right to safe drinking water. Today, in fact, we are doing exactly what the consensus of the decision to write into the constitution really defines what this framework is. I think that this is certainly the first step towards a more progressive and enlightened co-operation policy today, and I am really glad to be part of this process today as a SMC Member. It is also because it is a change in the sense of concern for the future and the vision of our community, which is not exclusively linked to this mandate or the call of the National Assembly. In the SMC Group, we have tabled amendments with the coalition, which have also been confirmed on the working body itself, but they are certainly important in view of the fact that our amendments have been aligned with both the profession and the civil initiative, solely to cover the widest possible context of how we as a water protection society are also pictured. We all need water for our lives, so the amendments went in this direction to ensure that natural water resources serving the priority and sustainable supply of safe drinking water and household water are not marketed in this part. This is very important because it means that safe drinking water is available to residents or households. At the same time – I must stress this – this change does not interfere with the free economic initiative. It is true, however, that economic use must not endanger the natural water source for the supply of the population. Thus, water will continue to be used for economic purposes, i.e. for food, energy, recreational purposes, while at the same time preventing anyone from acquiring natural water resources. In this way, it is ensured that when private owners supply the population with water, it would not be a matter of pursuing some, as I would say, profitable interests. This means that, by amending or supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the provision of safe drinking water can only be provided through a non-profit public service under the auspices of the State or municipalities. I would add that this change obliges us to protect the public interest and protect our natural wealth. I would add that, as already in the position of the Group of Members, that support for the recording of the right to safe drinking water in the Constitution was never a question and that we have never learned this important fact at the initiative of the proposer, as we would like to underpin it, but we have committed ourselves to it already in the Coalition Treaty. It is true, however, that the way of writing was also important for us, because we simply wanted to follow the objective that the right to drinking water should be accessible to everyone under the same conditions, which means that we are following the liberal policy of the Modern Centre Party. In conclusion, I would touch on Mr Horvat's statements from New Slovenia and Mr Grims from the SDS Group of Members, which say that it would be best if the world around us could follow some of the postulates of common sense and normality. Of course, I fully agree with this, but it is true that we live in a world where everyone imagines what common sense is and what normality is. This is how I will support today's proposal to amend the Constitution, and I wish to continue to see good luck in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u39	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! As we discuss water today, I think there is no doubt that water is a strategic asset. Unfortunately, this strategic good is important for the whole world, but it must be said that water consumption has increased 35 times in the last 300 years at world level and water consumption has increased 2 times faster than the population in the 20th century. In other words, water as a strategic asset is increasingly limited and, last but not least, is increasingly valuable. Slovenia is a country with sufficient drinking water, with sufficient water and no risk of drinking water being restricted over the next decades. I also believe that the current constitution and current legislation provide adequate protection to ensure that water consumption or water itself is used for any other purpose. Last but not least, when compared to prices when we are talking about water prices, with bottled water, exploitation and so on, it is, unfortunately, Slovenia between those countries where the price of this water is quite high, even compared to some other countries, as well as, if you wish, with African countries. So I would be here about the price, and of course whose property is and how much the exploitation is, here I don't think they're holding on to that thesis. Even with this concern, water will become too expensive and so forth — I think it is already too expensive. The second is water management, and if we look at average consumption in Slovenia, then given the limitations of this good, we can say that probably management and care and saving on the other hand in this case is not sufficient, and not least here the already existing industry or existing owners are more stimulating this water consumption than not. After all, here we have some analyses, some estimates of how much water the average population consumes, how much water is per person, the household and so on. If it is consumed from 2 to 3 litres, the consumption for everything is approximately 150 litres per day, if not even 250 litres per day. This management is probably concerned and, of course, also cares about the management of how much drinking water is used to cool industrial facilities, to cool power plants, nuclear power plants and so on. These data are also worrying about governance itself today. I'm guessing it's not well managed by this water. Even today. And also given that there is an ever-increasing limit to this water in our country, but even more so in a world where 1.2 billion people do not have enough drinking water. As a result, the current situation, I think, is good enough if this is to be enshrined in the Constitution as a special provision, it will be written, but I think that excessive concerns and, above all, intimidation with some multinationals, with something about how someone will put us in a second-rate position, how multinationals will come here and so on, must not become information that will mean: foreigners do not go to Slovenia, not so otherwise. Here it goes, in fact, sorry, even in today's debates, for considerable intimidation before foreigners come to this country at all, for whatever they do here, to do and so on. We are still part of Europe, we are part of the world and this debate, and these views are not intended to drive out all foreigners. Some of you are already many, but be satisfied with these, and on behalf of national interest, in the name of all of this, some other interests, partial interests, domestic interests. That is why I think – look, using this debate to prosecute foreigners and to tell them in advance that they should not come to Slovenia at all, however, because they will not get any water, is not in place. We all share the issue of water care, water management, not because we are even more closed or that we are simply foreigners or, if you like, the international organisations and the troika that are spoken of in this regard. Look, I don't think there's any danger in that. Of course, I respect all those who actually care about water. I would like to mention here that in this debate or this text to change the constitution there is a new term that can cause significant problems in legal breakdowns of individual words, that is, "safe drinking water". I've looked into it, and the profession has no clear idea what the term "safe drinking water" is and what it actually means. We also have global drinking water and drinking water. I would count on the heart of all those who will continue to work on this text to make these matters clear so that there will be no misunderstandings later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u41	Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare for Mr Andrej Chuš and Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am also pleased to hear a fairly uniform opinion on the need to bring the right to drinking water and drinking resources to a higher level of protection, said from the legal level to the constitutional level, and I will therefore also support such a proposal for amendments to the Constitution. We are lucky to live in a country that is very watery and that we have good and quality water resources and almost most of the population are self-evident with us that drinking water flows from the pipe. Medium-term experts point out that we can have a groundwater level that is now slightly but steadily decreasing, that this trend can continue and that there will be fewer and fewer suitable water resources in the world to supply the population compared to the needs. Such a medium-term trend, of course, causes companies and corporations to have a strong tendency to enter this market so that water becomes marketable goods. In this area, despite my own support for a free economic initiative, I think there is a need for great caution in this area. In countries where private companies and corporations have started to manage water, water quality has been shown to have decreased, prices have increased in most cases and investment in infrastructure has been very limited and, of course, quality has decreased. We have recently been able to monitor similar trends in Europe in order to ensure that private incentives are equally involved in water supply services. This has been prevented by a citizens' initiative, since almost two million citizens have signed a petition against such intentions and water has not yet been considered a commodity in the European Union. I would therefore point out once again that there is a need to be very careful and to raise the level of protection to the constitutional level. Legal experts are now of the opinion that the current constitutional regime is quite liberal for us to allow a wide room for the enforcement of concessions and also leaves the possibility of providing private legal or natural persons. If we add to this international treaties that are above our laws, which otherwise adequately protect water resources and water supply, this is another reason to support such a change of constitution. We would be pleased, and also in the SMC, to strive to achieve the main objectives of the next text of these amendments, and water resources, as a natural public good, that each right to drinking water, water resources as a priority serve drinking water supply – that is to say, this supply has much greater weight than supply for industry and the economy, especially if water resources start to decrease – and that non-profit public service manages water and water resources. I think we will be able to draw up further texts in this direction in order to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members, Madam Secretary! Slovenia has been and is, like other countries, exposed to the demands of international financial institutions after the liberalisation of the service market, namely the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, i.e. infamous troikas. Requirements for the privatisation of various forms of services, including water, for example in the form of concessions to private companies, are reflected in the proposal for directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the award of concession contracts. Yesterday, in response to the question of Luka Koper, we heard that the award of the concession to the private for the performance of the public service was not a privatisation. Of course it doesn't. The profession says that awarding concessions is only one of the forms of privatisation and planned concessions at Luka Koper are its privatisation in the event of the realisation of these concessions. Of course, the wrong decision, since the second track should only be built with public funds, saving about half a billion euros. The infamous troika is known to have demanded the privatisation of water in Greece, Spain and Portugal. Where water supply has been liberalised, privatised and commercialised and the care for this service has moved into private hands, the prices of drinking water have increased, the quality of water supply has decreased, investments in the water network have decreased, and the profits of new operators have increased. The privatisation of water was opposed years ago by the people of the European Union, as more than 2 million people signed a petition on the right to water. The move was successful, as the European Commission has therefore excluded the liberalisation of water services from the Directive. What will happen in the future with the liberalisation of water in Slovenia is therefore primarily up to us. I am pleased that, in the spirit of these developments in 2013, the State Council, and later the other proponents, gave an initiative to change the constitution, which would also provide drinking water or water in Slovenia, which should serve as a priority for the provision of non-profit public service to the population. At the same time, it should be pointed out that in the past Slovenia has itself accelerated the liberalisation of many services, including health, social, education, education, especially higher education, as well as water services. The Water Concessions began to be awarded in 1993 by the Law on Economic Public Services. It thus allowed private capital to intervene in water resources and the participation of private capital without adequate restrictions. The Water Act allows the exploitation of water resources to each municipality without proper control and without restrictions, including the provision of drinking water through concessions granted to private individuals. This also applies to foreigners as European Union rules require a non-discriminatory approach to the market to other countries. By no means should the privatisation of water resources continue to be allowed, so I am in favour of banning the privatisation of water resources and I believe that, in addition to the proposed legislation, we should also establish that ground and underground waters with all watercourses owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This could further safeguard Slovenia's interests in the field of water resources. There is also inadequate current control over concessions, allowing water to be pumped beyond the provisions of the concession contract, and the possibility of overexploitation of water resources is inadequate, given the information provided by the water profession for only partially renewable natural resources. The Constitutional Law must be followed by rapid amendments to legislation that will, inter alia, ensure the implementation of constitutional provisions, as well as appropriate supervision and regulation of this area. Of course, the question is how reliable it is with the proposed content of Article 70a of the Constitution to protect Slovenian water resources. For example, will there be a provision under which everyone has the right to safe drinking water? The practice shows that we have very good provisions in the Constitution to protect people's rights, including human rights, with which Slovenia wants to protect people's rights. In practice, however, these provisions are not implemented properly. For example, Article 2 of the Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state, but we know that in practice there are great problems in providing legal security for citizens as well as in providing social security for the population. Consider also Article 11 of the Constitution, which stipulates that in Slovenia the official language is Slovenian. However, the existing Article 8 of the Higher Education Act clearly violates the Constitution in a provision under which the State finances universities programmes under which Slovenian professors at universities teach Slovenian students in English. This is allowed when the university implements the same program in Slovenian as well. On Friday, we will consider the amendment to this law, which goes into the expulsion of the Slovenian language from the higher education study and thus the deterioration of the quality of the study even further, since such a deviation will already be possible if the university has a comparable programme in the Slovenian language. In short, we have in practice legal provisions that deny the provisions of the Constitution, and we are peacefully applying all this liberalisation, privatisation and commercialisation, which is driven by greed. Liberalisation incentives usually refer to a free economic initiative, internationalisation and the like when defending their financial interests. We have problems because we have left the country behind for the past 25 years to those who are striving primarily for their own interests. By entering positive provisions into the Constitution, which I will of course support, the implementation of the provisions will therefore require a substantial increase in the engagement of those who care for the common good. Otherwise, good intentions can be transformed into perverse practices which I have just mentioned. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u46	Dear Mr Vice President, Minister and all present. Today we are talking about very important goods, namely drinking water. Surely we are all aware that water is essential to life, sometimes even more than food, so access to water must be a fundamental and general right of all citizens. We must be aware that water is not just vital goods to which we all have the right, but that drinking water is becoming increasingly rare. Some countries already face water shortages, such as reading that people in northern Mali wake up in the morning to worry about where and how they will find water. Our country is not yet faced with this lack of happiness, but the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution is an important message to all users in the economic use of water. Slovenia, which has the privilege of flowing drinking water from almost every pipe, would be one of the first countries to do so by writing this right into the constitution. Many people still spend drinking water without feeling, including watering gardens, washing cars even after various calls in the drought when we save water. As one of the most watery countries in Europe, we must all be aware that quality drinking water is a privilege that needs to be preserved. I believe that everyone in Slovenia must have the right to drinking water. We must ensure that water resources serve the priority and sustainable care of the population and that the water resources serving these purposes are not market goods but are intended for the common good. Therefore, in order to protect this good, which must be accessible to all the inhabitants, it is essential that it also be protected by the Constitution. As I am aware of the importance of drinking water, I will also support the constitutional change process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec, followed by Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Minister of State, Secretary of State! Today we are considering an extremely important right, the right of every citizen or every human being to ensure healthy, clean drinking water and the entry of this right into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself signed this proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. For I believe that this fundamental right, the right to drinking water, is so important that it must be enshrined in the Constitution. Enrolling in the Constitution because, as we have heard earlier today, I will repeat it because the Constitution is harder to change than the law. This is very important. To change the Constitution, we need two thirds of all the votes of members of the National Assembly, while the law that guarantees this right today can be adopted by amending the law by a simple majority of Members in the National Assembly. And that's the essential difference. As I have already said, the right to drinking water is the fundamental fundamental right of every human being and must therefore be enshrined in the Constitution. In order to ensure everyone the right to drinking water, to ensure the sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and to protect water resources that serve the public with drinking water in order to ensure that they never become marketable goods. That seems very important to me. Let us see how this right to drinking water is regulated by international acts. We have no explicit right to drinking water in any international instrument. I'm making explicit rights. Neither in any international treaty nor in any regulation of the European Union. However, this right to drinking water can be derived from the General Declaration on Human Rights, which does not directly mention the right to water, but refers to the right to life and the right to an adequate standard of living, health, housing and food. The United Nations has adopted several documents. These include Agenda 21 on the protection of water resources, quality drinking water and the water ecosystem. I'm talking about an agenda. In 2010, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution on the right to clean drinking water, noting that it is a non-binding resolution. Due to the demands of the international financial institutions, we have already heard about this, the so-called troikas, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, in Europe, the pressure to liberalise the market for services and, among them, the supply of drinking water, which private companies are also expected to carry out on the basis of concessions. And here's the problem. As an example, I'm going to give you a case that's going on in Rwanda where multinational Nestle has purchased water resources and there have been major changes. People work for this multinational for a small amount of money, but water has to be paid dearly. I would also like to point out that this film, which has been broadcast on RTV Slovenia, can be viewed and you will be better informed by all those who are interested in this area, why it is so necessary to prevent multinationals from being able to absorb water resources in Slovenia at any time. When the European Parliament addressed the proposal for a directive, Members from Slovenia also adopted certain positions in this regard. And here I would state the position of Iva Wygle, who advocates the right to drinking water for all, and on the other hand some other Members who would not be named or mentioned, for example, Mr Zver had an interview in which he felt that there would be no difference if they allowed the use of drinking water to be liberalised, because they would ensure it in some way. [[…]] While Mazej Kukovića then said that she did not agree, she advocates the fact that every person from birth to death has the right to healthy, clean and quality drinking water. So much for what happened in the European Parliament. It is also found that almost no country has the right to drinking water incorporated into the Constitution. This was simply not done by the countries because there was no need, there was no concern about the exhilarating pressure on drinking water in order to make it necessary. However, as I mentioned earlier in the case of Rwanda, the issue is very problematic, capital or private capital companies, and these corporations have also found here that this can be a major source of income and are therefore trying to exploit their water resources. The data we received in the material shows that, for example, the Republic of South Africa and Uruguay are cases that have this right in the constitution. In doing so, I would point out that this entry was made in Uruguay on the basis of a referendum carried out in 2004. Thus, in other countries too, citizens are very aware of what this right to healthy drinking water means. In India, for example, the Constitutional Court incorporated this right to clean drinking water into the Constitution. There are so many different cases. I repeat, I support this proposal for the entry of this right to drinking water into our constitution and will therefore support the decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law and the position on the draft constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Jože Tanko should be prepared for him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I do not have any particular problem of having this right incorporated into the Constitution in some way, but all of these debates today and also the discussions that we had on the Constitutional Commission show that this is not as simple as some imagine, and today's explanations of how they still attach themselves to it. We have now heard from the coalition that obviously in Slovenia the biggest drinking water problem is dealing with Uruguay, South Africa, which have this in the constitution, but forget to say that they also have the most problems with drinking water supply. At the same time, they say that no other country, in Europe or beyond, has written down in the constitution and I am really worried if on the side of the coalition this drinking water is really the biggest problem in Slovenia, in addition to everything else. What we're listening to today is really very interesting; Rwanda, Mali, I don't know if we're going to be dealing with all the acts of war going on there all the time. I do not know, I propose that the coalition deal with real problems, but not with drinking water, which in our country is also a thank-you to God for the proper legislation and implementation of all the ministries so far, including the current minister, at a very high level. We are, in fact, the first water supply in Europe, if not the first in the world in terms of quality, accessibility, everything. And everything you've talked about is already enshrined in legislation that we have in some ways harmonised with European legislation, but some things we have even more substantial, much more rigorously written down than others. You were talking about water being first provided for household care and so on. It's already in the law. When drinking water restrictions or water shortages occur, economic use is first restricted. I hope you live in a congregation where water shortages occasionally occur, and you know exactly what the community notice is. First, economic operators are closed down, flooding is banned, economic use of water is prohibited and so on. We've got it all figured out, and you're talking like it's falling off the moon and that's the biggest problem in our country. Clearly, drinking water is a priority for the care of households and others, this is enshrined in the legislation. You do a lot of concessions and stuff. Water resources are already in our constitution, written as a public good in our legislation, no water source is privatized. If you mix concessions and privatisation of water resources, then take a closer look. The concession had previously had a user who was likely to be one economic operator, now another economic operator who draws this water in accordance with a contract signed with the Ministry of the Environment and the space that has granted it and the quantity and time of the drawdown, and when this is over, will have to apply for a new concession. I don't know where you see these fears, that the matter will somehow be evaluated. In this debate you are putting a lot of things forward, you are actually transferring to the state, to the ministry, to the government, because you are saying that the supply of drinking water to the population is directly in charge of the country. If this is written in the constitution in the way you wrote it here, I think most local communities will be happy to transfer governance to the country or probably in the implementation work of the Ministry of Environment and Space. By writing this in the constitution, the State will be obliged to unit water prices across Slovenia in order to provide water to all citizens, as you write in this article, and this doctrine "or pass it on to local communities" will not apply, because no local community will be so stupid as to assume these obligations if it is imposed by the State in the constitution. The state has also imposed protection of the population in the constitution, and in the case of watercourses, we know how this works. I do not think that any citizen has yet decided to sue the country when he takes over private land for failing to carry out flood safety and so on. This is also enshrined in the constitution and is not implemented and you now imagine that one such dictatorship will solve all these problems that are not actually in Slovenia; this is the problem. You provide examples of Africa and some countries where there are real problems, but there are problems in all other areas and not just water supply. As far as I am concerned, perhaps given that the Constitution does not explicitly state, nor does the right to clean air or to certain other rights that are essential to life, I can see that everyone has the right to safe drinking water, and all the rest of the salads that are provided here will, in my opinion, cause a great problem in the exercise of this right that they would like to describe.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Prepare Mr. Battelli and the Mag. Cousin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. What is the purpose of this change, what is the purpose of this change? The goal of this amendment or this addition in the constitution is that even after 30 years when the Slovenian opens the pipe, he will not worry about landing in the poison chamber, and he will not hold his head because he will not know how to pay for this water because someone has come to cook fat profits at the expense of supplying drinking water to the population. How do we do that? This is achieved by the fact that no one owns water resources, we protect it at the highest level, and this is in the constitution, but no one owns it, nor does the country own it, it is from all of us. If we say that the state is the owner of these water resources, we do the opposite of what we want; so we give the ownership principle and once the ownership principle is in place, it is not far from those water resources becoming the property of someone else who is not necessarily a country. As far as concessions are concerned, I should agree with my predecessor and in no way agree with Mrs Bizjak Mlakar that the concession is a form of privatisation. If that were the case, then Slovenia would no longer own 20% of Slovenian forests, but we know that once the concessions have expired, the owner is the owner of the future, as was the case with the Republic of Slovenia. In the concession contract we have time, we have conditions how some natural wealth can be exploited in this case. This is not at all a form of privatisation, and I find it wrong to give it that way. How will we achieve this by having safe water? This must be achieved by a change of constitution. We have a proposal for a text that is a good basis, and the final text must be such that we do not worry about the future, the water we drink and the money we drink this water for, so that the economy does not worry about what will happen to them. The economy must continue to function normally as it already does. Of course, it must be aware that their use of water must not endanger the supply of the population, which is logical, and I think that it is also reasonable for all economists, because if you do not give water to someone, it will not be your consumer. So there's one logic in the back that you can follow. Now the question is why this coalition and this government are dealing with this issue today, when we have everything resolved and well solved in legislation, when we have more than enough water. Yeah, why? Because once we do not have enough of it, it will be too late to resolve it once we have wasted our water resources, and it will be too late to have this debate. So today we're doing what we think 30, 50 years from now, and that's why we need to do it today. This does not mean that we are not dealing with other problems and other problems, because today we are thinking about the future and in the future this can be a problem and it is only responsible for us to talk about it today and to take measures today that will protect us from a number of headaches that can happen to us if we do not do so now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, followed by Mrs Iva Dimic and Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much again. The fact is that the proposal before you today is indeed a proposal for the future. In view of the present, I can fully agree that there is no need for panic, that it may also look as if this record in the Constitution is not necessary, but far from this. The concerns and interests of some, especially large companies, have shown in the past what they want, and I think it is right to tell them clearly in Slovenia and show them that these paths will not be with us. I agree with a number of concerns that were put on the table. The amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission may include more confusion than clarity in the proposal. That is why, in the beginning, my appeal was addressed to all, and in particular to the largest party in Parliament, so that it is not due to prestige, so that it is known that an amendment drafted by the largest party was accepted and threatened the whole process. The Constitution does not contain any minimum detail. I also think that the wrong signal to the Slovenian public is to define in the Constitution the right to safe drinking water, because I am sure that already drinking water must be safe, if not, I do not know whether we will then ask ourselves in Slovenia, or whether my pipe runs safe, and from someone else's pipe not safe or less safe water. I am so sad that these amendments have been adopted in spite of the concerns and opposition of the expert commission, but as I have already said, there will also be time and I think that, above all, it is time for experts and constitutional lawyers to say what the right term is or what the right article is that fits into the Constitution, but of course all together, I am sure, especially in the Ministry of the Environment and Space, that the change of the Constitution will entail a number of legislative needs for a number of legislative changes that will necessarily need to be regulated. After all, the Constitution, if we cannot implement it, is just a letter on paper. I am sure, once again, that the proposal of the Alliance, which is before you, is the right way, but let us all think again together, turn our heads and look, and let us listen first to the experts about what is right, what is right in the constitution, and the rest will have to be regulated by laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate on a proposal for a decision in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The representative of the Government, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you. The debate we are witnessing today confirms, as already stated in the introduction, that the right to drinking water is a right that can or must find a place in the constitution. It is true, however, that the record itself, as it will be adopted, will determine whether there is a need to amend anything in law and by law. It is right that, with such strong agreement as has been said here today, the right to drinking water should be enshrined in the Constitution. I would like to see our citizens and citizens, in particular, satisfied with the Constitution, because the Constitution is actually intended for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u57	The representative of the Magi candidates also has the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u58	I am pleased that our proposal will receive so much support today. In fact, no one — that is what the representatives of the parliamentary groups said — will vote against. This is a very positive and very large signal that we will also give to Europe and the world. And once again, my appeal that we will not continue or that you will not lose anyone on this single train at this time because of the various plays. Let us write in the Constitution what is least necessary in order to make the right to drinking water accessible to all, so that water resources will not be privatized and that drinking water supply will always be carried out as a non-profit service. Let us regulate everything else in legislation, which we will have to amend anyway. Finally, thank you once again to all who will support our proposal today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made today in accordance with the time frame of the meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. If the National Assembly adopts a proposal for a decision, it will immediately proceed with the debate on the draft constitutional law and on the position of the Constitutional Commission and then on the amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission, as part of the rest of the joint time of the parliamentary groups and of the unaffiliated Member, the Government and the proponents. Amendments may be tabled until the end of the debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE DENOUNCEMENT LAW, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, whom we are still waiting for. Just a minute. We'll just keep working. I propose that we continue to give the floor to the President of the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna try to be as long as I can, so we can be on time and all present. At its 24th meeting, the Committee on Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Succession Act, which was tabled by the Government in the National Assembly. In its supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant, the State Secretary, stressed that the basic purpose of the bill is to enable the effective implementation of the Regulation of the European Union, which introduces a European Certificate of Succession and is used to inherit persons who have died since 17 August 2015. The proposed law thus entails some minor amendments or additions that have proved necessary when implementing the legislation in force. Thus, among other things, the possibility of concluding an agreement on the cancellation of an unannounced inheritance also applies to the spouse or partner, the responsibility of the State for the debtor's debts changes when it comes to an inheritance without heirs, and the regulation of the limitation on the inheritance of the property of the prodigal who has benefited from aid in accordance with the social protection rules. At its meeting, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the United Left and SDS groups and the New Slovenia Group of Members and voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly after these amendments became irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted, he has prepared, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the updated text which is before you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, co-worker! Today, we have amendments and amendments to the law, which was already adopted in the far part of 1976, and was later amended only twice, lastly 15 years ago. The fact is, as has also been shown by the practice that people's desires and needs have changed in these years and certain arrangements have become obsolete. A step forward is shown by the proposal of the law on the basis of the warnings of the Notary Chamber in particular in the work which allows for the cancellation of inheritance by spouses or extra-marital partners and not only by progeny, as regulated by the applicable legislation. Let me illustrate the case. A spouse or an extramarital partner has children from a previous marriage, and their express wish is that in the event of their death their descendants, namely, children and the surviving partner, are solely heirs. They will be able to enter this wish into the agreement after a new one. In the Desus Group we support such a change. The text of the draft law on submission to the National Assembly of February also took into account the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, the first in 2009, which eliminates unconstitutionality in the area of the succession of the same-sex partners. However, since the Law on Partnerships has been passed in the meantime as a system law, provisions in the Succession Act have become unnecessary. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to see that, after seven years of the first decision of the Constitutional Court, the law has finally eliminated obvious discrimination based on sexual orientation in the field of inheritance. A discussion was held on the working body in particular in the part of the proposal, which is substantively linked to the Law on Social Security Benefits. An institution shall be established to limit the inheritance of the property of the prodigal who has benefited from aid in accordance with social protection rules. It is clear, of course, that the provision in the law on succession only follows the regulation of social protection rules and does not command anything new. In the Desus Group, while adopting the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, we supported the amended form of the protection allowance. The reason for the support was Desus's acquisition to clear pension bills of all expenditure that did not have the basis for the payment of contributions and, crucially, the protection of the most vulnerable pensioners, those without assets, with a pension under the price threshold set for monetary social assistance, which today amounts to EUR 466. Let me re-emphasize this: the security allowance is not part of the pension; it is by no means equivalent to the annual allowance. The protective allowance is a social transfer. The limitation of inheritance in the case of the receipt of a protective allowance has been exercised since 1976 and all the way through 1976 neither the State nor the municipality has exercised the right to refund that amount in the case of socially disadvantaged heirs. It is true that the number of applications for this supplement has decreased in recent years. And it is true that individual proposals are coming from individuals to change this institution in a more just way. Therefore, in the coalition, we committed ourselves to burdening the beneficiaries of the property-owned security allowance with the prohibitions of depriving the property. How to do this, where to set a lower limit, is still an open question. In Desus, however, we expect the competent ministry to provide a brief analysis of the specific data and a proposal for a revised regulation, which, after all, has been going on for too long. That is why we insist in Desus that such a solution be found that will not cause injustice among the population of pensioners, which, I stress, will protect the most vulnerable part of pensioners, and that this form of assistance will contribute to ensuring a decent life. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law on succession. However, we expect the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled to prepare appropriate legislation in accordance with the arrangements as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u63	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u64	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Desus, the promises will, of course, be fulfilled and prepared in accordance with your wishes. Given the scope of the law on succession and its novelty, which is before us today, we can say that it is in fact a minor breach of the law and that it is in particular in line with the fundamental circumstances and law of the European Union. So by adopting this novel, we can turn the solutions into four key pillars. Therefore, more effective implementation of the Regulation of the European Union, expansion of the possibility of concluding an agreement on the cancellation of an unannounced inheritance also to the spouse or partner and changing the liability of the State to the debtor's debts and amending the limitation on the inheritance of the property of the prodigal who has benefited from aid in accordance with the social protection rules. According to the Ministry, there are approximately 12.3 million citizens of the Member States of the European Union currently living in other Member States. Each year, some 4.5 million people die in the European Union, and some 450 thousand heritages with international elements have been dealt with as a result of death. However, persons to whom the property of the deceased is transferred and who want to exercise their rights on international succession are, of course, facing a number of problems under existing laws and the internal regulation of the European Union. Due to the different treatments or rules of succession, the full exercise of the right to private property shall be prevented and, in accordance with the established case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, part of the fundamental rights to be guaranteed within the Community. In practice, therefore, the need for heirs to have a simple exercise of their right-of-law position is becoming increasingly evident, regardless of which Member State they live in. In this respect, it may therefore be an advantage for heirs to receive an official confirmation of their heir status in the form of a authentic instrument, an official body with which they can prove their status in another Member State. Finally, the proposed amendment removes the two Constitutional Court decisions which are subject to succession arrangements for partners in a registered and unregistered partnership. Since it is in fact a technical law that improves the status and position of people within succession procedures, the Social Democrats will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. We are considering the law on succession and within it the most controversial part, which is the return on social assistance. This law, which is before us, is the best statement of anti-social policy, which has been run by this government and its coalition since the beginning of the mandate. This law is also clear evidence that the coalition has written its coalition agreement in a way that at first sight, at least at some point in public interest, but at this point its own authors do not respect it at all. In the coalition contract, as a measure in the field of social policy and pension system, under point 12, I will quote: “Receipts of a security allowance that owns less property will be relieved of the prohibition of the alienation of property.” End of quote. This quote sounds very nice and in the United Left we can only support such an idea, but – and always comes this unfortunate word but – instead of fulfilling this commitment, we are facing a proposal today that is completely different, not to say diametrically the opposite. I'm talking about the return on social benefits. Refundability is indeed set out in the Succession Act, which we have been dealing with today, since the 1970s, but this decision has never been implemented in practice. In the past. Indeed, because it had not been implemented until the amendment of the legislation by which the Social Democratic Government was then, it also defined the protection allowance as a social benefit. This is also recognised by the government in its own opinions, where it has written down that the provisions on the return of social benefits could not be enforced until the amendment of the law which began to apply in 2012. And that this change really was a very bad thing to do, it turned out immediately after its entry into force. For the same year, the Social Protection Institute, according to 2012, found that 16 thousand 100 persons who were entitled to it under the rules had resigned from the protection allowance. We are talking about 16 thousand 100 individuals who have so low incomes that they are entitled to a protective allowance, and these incomes have been abandoned because of the frightening effect of returnability. These people certainly need help, and we are talking here about some of the most vulnerable groups. We are talking about pensioners, we are talking about people from the periphery and they are particularly concerned about the issue of poverty at the stroke of older single women living on the Slovenian outskirts. These are people who have been denied social assistance or a protective allowance, although they would urgently need it for their bare survival. But instead of eliminating one of the reasons for the increase in poverty, which lies in the returnability of social assistance, the government and coalition's objective is clearly completely different. Instead of putting its commitment under the coalition agreement into effect and putting the socially weakest of our societies at ease, she decided to put an even greater burden on them. In addition to the return of social security benefits, both the Government and the coalition propose to step up through the reimbursement of funeral expenses if these costs were borne by the municipality. The aim of the government and the coalition in practice, not in the word, is to transform over time all forms of social assistance and every euro that the country devotes to the socially weak into a state loan. And this is totally unacceptable for us in the United Left. Social aid is a company's solidarity measure, and with returnability it becomes a commercial measure, becoming an interest-free loan instead of the unconditional aid that the weakest, most exposed in our society need. And that's why we socialists have tabled amendments that completely abolish the Institute of Returnability. Given the government's promises and commitments and the coalitions before the elections and then in the coalition agreement, our amendments should certainly receive sufficient support. If not because the coalition would have fulfilled its own promises with this support, but because it had not found any arguments against the withdrawal until today. Not one. And above this deepening of returns, we are going to the socialists with a counterproposal, this is the deletion of all forms of social credit, and a change in social change in what should actually be – solidarity social assistance. And if our amendments are not adopted, we certainly will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u68	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Some solutions to the proposal of the Law on Succession are welcome. The introduction of a European Certificate of Succession, the bankruptcy of an inheritance without heirs, and the equalization of the status of the same-sex partner with the spouse and the spouse of the defector, as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision. A whole other story is the proposal to restrict the inheritance of the person receiving the aid in accordance with social protection rules. The Social Security Benefits Act now limits this inheritance to two-thirds of the aid received, while today's proposal for the Succession Act limits this inheritance to the whole, unless the social protection rules provide otherwise. In Novi Slovenija we stress that in Slovenia the number of people entitled to receive social security benefits is high. In view of the fact that our country is a social state in accordance with the Constitution, it is worrying that despite the poor property situation and the hardships of these benefits, many of the beneficiaries still renounce the fear that by exercising the right to receive them, they will bear the burden on their descendants or heirs. If the heirs are prepared to repay the social assistance paid to the State or to the municipality, it is only right that the inheritance be limited to a certain amount. Thus, as in the transitional provisions now, the Social Security Benefits Act provides for. It is also unacceptable for the Christian Democrats to extend the limitation of inheritance to the whole to the cost of the funeral. While it is right that these costs are reimbursed to the municipality that covered the costs of the funeral, the restriction cannot represent costs to the whole. While this issue is also highlighted by the Council of State, which points out that in this regard, the municipalities to which the State has delegated responsibility are in a very different situation, especially in the case of the fact that the property of the prodigal is often not sufficient to cover all costs. This is where you run together two issues. On the one hand, the interest of the State or the municipality to recover the social assistance paid, in particular due to financial burdens, and on the other hand the question of inheritance. The social state must protect just the weakest individuals. Therefore, the proposed limitation of inheritance is also unacceptable in terms of the unequal situation of the refugees and their heirs. The municipalities have a discretion to decide whether or not to waive the right to receive social assistance. In New Slovenia, we believe that the limitation on the inheritance of a person who has benefited from aid under social protection rules should be limited to two thirds of that part of the aid that the person has received for more than 12 months. We also propose the same restriction with the amendment for funeral expenses if they are covered by the municipality in accordance with the law governing funeral and burial activities. This would allow the level of the inheritance limit for the prodigals to be the same as in the current Social Security Benefits Act. Christian Democrats will support the proposal for a new law on succession if our amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u69	Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! Today, in the National Assembly, we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Succession. He's only been renovated twice so far. It's been 15 years since the last change. Therefore, the introduction of the Regulation of the European Union and certain corrections is inevitable. We all know that today, people from one European Member State are often relocated to another as a result of an international element. Data show that more than 4 million people die in the EU each year, with between 9% and 10% of their inheritances containing an international element. In such cases, there are various problems and complex issues as Member States' national rules on succession differ considerably. In particular, these differences are in the bodies responsible for deciding on international succession, and the problems are also in the fragmentation of the legacy, in the extent of the willful disposition, in the possibility of managing the legacy and some others. Persons who have lost their lives and who want to exercise their rights in international succession face considerable difficulties. In order to make such succession situations easier to resolve, the amendment of the Succession Act, in accordance with the EU acquis, stipulates that the entire legacy of the progeny will be decided in one place in one legacy procedure. In order to determine the whole inheritance, however, the competent court of the Member State in which the progeny was habitually resident at the time of death will be the competent court. It is therefore ensured that the cross-border legacy case is dealt with in a coordinated manner by one authority in accordance with the law of one Member State. The application of the law of one Member State by a single authority in cross-border succession cases prevents parallel procedures in which conflicting court decisions may arise. Decisions issued in one Member State shall thus be recognised throughout the Union without the need for any special proceedings. If, until now, in Slovenia, the local competent district courts have decided on the succession, a reasonable solution is now in place, following the proposed arrangements, the estate court which will decide in the succession proceedings will also be competent to issue a European Certificate of Heritage. The European Certificate of Succession will allow for the rapid regulation of the content of international succession, and its advantage is, in particular, in the effects of a certificate which is identical in all Member States. However, this will ensure legal certainty, but the use of the European Certificate of Succession is not compulsory, the party will still be able to decide on the procedure for the declaration of enforceability and also on the procedure for the recognition of the decision to apply in another Member State. In addition to the basic purpose of the Law on Succession, this is an effective implementation of the regulation, the proposed law also brings some minor additions which have proved necessary when implementing the legislation in force. These solutions were mostly proposed by certain state authorities, courts and other representatives of the professional public or are based on decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, among other things, it is possible to conclude an agreement on the non-initiated succession to a spouse or partner. However, the regime governing the limitation of the succession of property of the prodigal who has benefited from aid in accordance with social protection rules is also being amended. The liability of the State to the debtor's debts when it comes to an inheritance without heirs shall be regulated by transferring the possibility of a claim for the transfer of an inheritance without heirs to bankruptcy and the possibility of submitting an application for the initiation of a bankruptcy of an inheritance without heirs from the Republic of Slovenia to the creditors of the defectors. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre supports the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Succession, since, among other additions, it makes great progress in simplifying cross-border succession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thanks, mag. Verbich. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u72	Your Honor! As soon as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Succession on the Parental Committee, which was tabled by the Government or the Ministry of Justice, was examined, it turned out that the law should in fact be dealt with together with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. In fact, the most problematic part of this law speaks of restricting the inheritance of property of the person receiving aid in accordance with social protection rules and thus imposing a new blow on all those in distress, most often, regrettably, not on their own account. In this way, we have witnessed some shifts of responsibility and Pilate's handover from one ministry to another, while citizens and citizens who are in poverty will draw the shortest. Moreover, the provisions referring to the limitation of inheritance to the amount of social assistance or social security benefits received are a new blow to the constitutional record that Slovenia is a social state. The President of the Government and the Finance Minister shall make use of any media attention to boast with data that the economic, financial and economic situation in the country has improved. I'm asking you publicly, who have they improved for? It seems that life is very good for all those who have caused the theft of our common property and murdered businesses and banks. For the rehabilitation of the latter, each citizen had to spend as much as €2,500, and no one has been convicted of doing so. As life improves for all 300,000 people living below the poverty line, I ask you. Life improves for all those who have lost their jobs because of economic and banking crime and are forced to live on social assistance today, perhaps for the elderly who need a protective supplement. Many of them did their best at the time of their employment and left their entire health to the State. Sadly, many of them today are unable to offer their grown - up children normal childhood. Further, what these people have accomplished by giving up and hard work, perhaps by means of inheritance, the nation will take away their descendants or heirs. Articles 6 and 7 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Succession Act are something that does not follow the principle of the social state. Articles 6 and 7 are something that takes dignity from our citizens who are in distress. Articles 6 and 7 are something that people consider, unfortunately, as numbers and turns into money. Therefore, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Act under consideration for the Slovenian Democratic Party are unacceptable and we strongly oppose them. In fact, the inheritance of the property of a person who has been or has been forced to live on the aid of money social assistance, a protective allowance, social security contributions and assistance to a family assistant should not be limited and should also take what remains of the offspring. If we agree to such solutions, then we can no longer talk about social transfers, but about aid in the form of loans. The fact that 78 % of the reduction in social security allowance beneficiaries has been made mainly because they do not want to transfer the burden of aid they would otherwise need to carry to the next generation is shocking. They prefer to live in unworthy conditions and poverty as if they were carrying burdens on their heirs. In fact, if we look at it in more detail, they act much more responsibly than our country, which is repeatedly credited and allows these loans to be returned by its own. In short, writing and speaking pamphlets, such as social justice and security, and caring for social weaknesses, while adopting legislation that means taking dignity and further degradation, is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u73	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left to Articles 6, 7 and 18 are substantively linked, so we will discuss them and the amendments of the New Slovenia and of the Slovenian Democratic Party to those articles together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 6, 7 and 18 and the three amendments of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left, the two amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and one amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. First of all, Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word and a very nice greeting to all! I would just like to give a few points before the debate begins. I'd like to say it again, as the mag has explained. Verbic before me, the main objective of this novelty is to legislate procedural provisions that will enable the effective implementation of the Succession Regulation. However, to put it simply, it gives evidence to the international instruments of succession issued in the countries which have acceded to the Regulation. In short, the novel in front of you allows such an inheritance to be made easier and more transparent in the elements of international succession. The second important objective of the novel is to align the positions of partners of different kinds when it comes to succession. Thirdly, the main objective is, a different arrangement of an inheritance without heirs. These three main objectives, which I will add to the rationalisation of the initial tasks in the legacy process, which we intend to achieve by the fact that the death certificate or its contents and the execution of the death certificate will no longer be on the burden of the heirs, but will receive the death certificate from the administrative unit, we consider that, therefore, the administrative unit, the parent has at its disposal a number of data that the death certificate can provide, that such fulfilment, the search for data no longer burdens the courts, which we believe will also allow for faster and more rational abandonment procedures. So I briefly mentioned the basic objectives of the novel. Since we do not include the Institute for the Limitation of Heritage, we are simply saying that the limitation of inheritance is a matter of the social policy of the State, that is, what the State has given or will take back, if I may say so, and how much, is the matter of the law on social security benefits, and we say it again in this novel, although we have laid down such a provision in the law on inheritance since 2013. In short, I would like to stress what the basic objectives are, and the limitation of inheritance is the subject of another law, and I believe that there will be a time for an in-depth discussion when that law is on the table. Speaking of which, I would like to propose to the end, taking into account the procedural provisions and conditions for today's third consideration of the bill. Thank you very much. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since I sensed more desire after the debate, I begin with the possibility of reporting. Here you go. The application shall be made. I propose, Mr Kordish, that we begin with two, and then you will, as a third debate. Okay? Mrs Anja Bah Žibert applied as the first debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. Now the secretary has also summarized other solutions that are in marriage. There is absolutely something and there is something that is also necessary, not least to comply with European legislation or directives, but we remain or today we are talking about Articles 6 and 7. It was said that this law does not interfere with the so - called transfer or in this area. That's not true. See how Article 6 reads: "The inheritance of the property of a person who has benefited from aid under social protection rules shall be limited to the amount of the aid received, unless otherwise specified in the social protection rules." You know very well that there is something in the preceding provisions. It's a record, and it'll cost a fortune. The fact is, it's in this law. I understand that the Ministry of Justice is not the first to be called here, so I also said that these two laws would be valid to deal with, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but the problem we have remains. Of course, it is nice and it is working out procedures concerning the so-called wider country when we are talking about the European Union, but the main problem for our citizens remains, and that is that those receiving social transfers today are no longer social transfers, that is credit. Because many citizens are not only responsible, but simply their dignity does not allow this burden to be left to their offspring, children, they give up, and therefore here again a call at least to the party Desus to consider supporting this amendment. 78% of people have given up not because they have enough, but because they have shown this measure of additional responsibility so that they do not give the burden to their children. They may have struggled their whole lives, spent such difficult times with their families, and the children have stood on their feet, and now let those burdens leave them to them. Last but not least, they could have come to their property earlier in the succession process and received something from their ancestors, perhaps centuries, and they can lose it today. Then there is another problem, Article 7, where we are talking about that the state and the municipality can waive their rights. Yes, you can. Of course, one house in the middle of Ljubljana, and if it is decomposing, probably the congregation will not give up on it. One house there, I'll say, on the edge of Dolenjska or in Prekmurje, the congregation will probably give up because it represents a higher cost. That's not how it works. So now we're dividing people into where they live demographically. They live in a richer municipality or a poorer municipality, and eventually any new mayor or mayor can make such a change. Today, someone will take the property because they will consider it beneficial and the cost will be paid, someone else will come to this place tomorrow, and they will not do so, perhaps for the neighbor already. I think that this solution can also be wrong and bring additional complications. Once again, I may be able to call back, but the fact is that many are living hard today and that we are denying them what the social state is supposed to mean — social transfers. This is simply not the right way, much less because you say that the situation in the country is improving. But what the SD Member had previously promised that the matter would be resolved and that the Minister would take care of it – yes, good morning, not only is it two years old, but this minister has been since before, and this has not been resolved. I'm sorry, I can't believe it's gonna happen. But there will be records, of course, now in this law, but this is what is certainly the most controversial right now. And here, once again, the call to think about Article 6 being changed and not taking what is the subject and what is supposed to be the case — the social state. Then let us put this out of the constitution and write: We are a country that we offer to citizens in distress of credit. Just, please, then let's make sure that those who received them in an unfair way and who approved them in an unfair manner return the money, because otherwise it will be and it is a change against what those others have done and have not yet been brought to justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! In New Slovenia, we want to have in the country transparent laws that complement each other and build on each other, not that they are made and adopted by giving some law up to two thirds, and then another law restricts or withdraws that right. This is why our amendment to Article 6 goes in this direction, however, to the Social Security Benefits Act, where it limits the right or succession to two-thirds of the aid received, to defend or represent the same position and gives legal protection also to the Succession Act. Otherwise, we can come back to two different opinions, two different interpretations of the law. It seems to me that this is a great loss and that this brings a new misunderstanding into our country's legal language. Persons receiving social assistance, which is too small, which with those 260 euros virtually does not allow even decent survival, and already there the heirs must, if they are, help their elders. It just seems unacceptable to me that, in this way, the succession law, which was granted in 2013, is then tried again. It was even said that the congregations would decide how they would proceed. It seems to me that it is totally unacceptable that people in the country should all be treated equally, no matter who knows the mayor, who doesn't know him, who lives in a better-standing congregation, who doesn't. Above all, we must be citizens all alike, even before the law and also before the law on succession. That's what this is about. Our condition for support for this law rests on support for our amendment to Article 6, because, at least with our amendment, we want the constitutional principle that the Republic of Slovenia is a legal and social state to be partially realized. Of course, we are talking about two thirds of the aid received by the prisoner over 12 months and, of course, two thirds of the cost of the funeral. People who are at such a threshold to receive this state aid seem to be living in difficult situations, but I am still convinced that those in this country who really need it do not even know how to get this money social assistance or do not want to receive it because the tribulation is the worst. Such hardships, social hardships people do not want to share with others, so please support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The next debater is Miha Kordish. Lord Miha Kordish, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. So many remarks, I have comments to make so far, I have a very short discussion and I have a proposal to make that I don't really know where to start. Perhaps it is most prudent to begin by having in the Succession Act Article 6, to which the entire opposition has tabled its own amendment. We all touch on the issue of the returnability of social assistance or this institute. Then we have discussions on the side of the coalition that are barely touching this fundamental issue, why we have a conflict at today's session. They're barely touching. Each parliamentary group came up, presented its position and walked around the topic of returnability of social benefits as a cat around hot porridge. They could hardly hope to touch this subject, with a stick, perhaps the most explicit thing was done there by the Madam Secretary, who somehow went in the direction that the law on the succession of this area was not even regulated and that it was the subject of another law, specifically the Law on Social Security Benefits. Yes, if that were true, if it were true that the Succession Act really does not strain the returnability of social assistance, then why does it say here? Why do we have three opposition amendments to Article 6, which all want to combat the returnability of social assistance, which everyone wants to restrict or, in the case of the amendment of the United Left, delete the Institute of Refundability of Social Assistance? This is a routine exercise, and we have actually listened to this transmission on the committee when this proposal for marriage was under consideration. But as we say, perhaps the most eloquent bad conscience of the government and coalitions is their silence. Not only are they not interested in the abolition of the return on social assistance, but one of the key causes of poverty in our society wants to step up by categorizing the costs of a funeral as a returnable one if they are covered by the congregation. I have already stressed in my position that returnability not only has direct effects on its property, but rather through the intimidation of recipients or potential recipients, beneficiaries of social transfers, it frightens them so that the security allowance is denied. These provisions entered into force effectively in 2012. In the same year, the Social Protection Institute found that the number of beneficiaries had declined dramatically: 16 thousand 100 people, the elderly, who had been entitled to a protective allowance, gave up this protective supplement briefly. Once again, I stress that this is one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, these are older, often older people on the periphery, and a group of older single women is particularly exposed here. And this is a profile of people who, with restrictive social legislation, are treated as poof by something that should be social solidarity aid, we limit normal survival, and that's not right. The devil is that this is wrong, already at the principle level this is wrong, and at a purely practical level this is not right at all when we are recording enormous economic growth. These are people, the most vulnerable, the poorest, the most exposed, who are not assisted by any economic growth in accessing the labour market. Simply because they are often unable to participate in the labour market. The only way to help these people is through the redistributive mechanisms of the state to take the state where it is, in particular, with the rich, with the wealthy, and to those where it does not. At least for normal, they get away with it. None of these things are going to profit badly, none of them are going to earn something terrible, only about some normal, decent life. But no! This topic is effectively denied by the Coalition in the Succession Act by avoiding it as the Devil of the Cross. Here I recall the arguments of the coalition that we were able to hear at the hearing of the Succession Act on the committee responsible. One of the arguments that came up, I think, by the largest coalition party, namely the SMC, it was said that the material situation of the heirs was different and, therefore, it is not fair for someone who already had enough to receive the full inheritance so that they would not then return the social assistance that his relative received and so on. I mean, that's the argument the dog brought to the end of the tail and it's totally attracted to the hair. First of all, do you seriously think that in our society things happen on a large scale, such as having some parents, old parents, pensioners who live in poverty, who are plagued by misery, and perhaps their wealthy offspring do not survive enough humanity to help them? Do you seriously believe that this world is already so imported that children would not help their parents if they could? You know I don't. I will not rule out that there may be a case here and there, because there are also biologically insane people born, it is not recoverable, but it is certainly not a social trend. If a person has to return social assistance to his parents, his parents, and so on, it is more or less because he is in poor physical condition and has not been able to help his parents during his life. This is the first coalition argument on the entire line. Come in. If the coalition is genuinely disturbed by inequality and is genuinely disturbed by the fact that someone who already has a lot would not then return to their parents, their parents, social assistance, then why not reach out to the income instrument? If you are genuinely interested, if it is not a simple bluff when you mention inequality, when you mention dishonesty in the fact that some in our society are very wealthy and others are on the verge of survival, then why not reach out to the income instrument and after raising taxes on capital, exacerbating income progression? Yeah, if you're up to it, then let those who already have more contribute more. Let them contribute more. But what are your income plans, dear coalition? Just the opposite. Those who are already in the upper middle class, whether in wealth or even in the top 1% of the richest people or the largest income recipients in our society, you want to relieve these people. You want to lower taxes on them that already have so much money that they don't know what to do with it. Then we come to the question of social assistance, of the return of social assistance, and here you are all at once interested in inequality. Godspeed for someone to inherit through his parents, old parents who received social assistance, and then they would not return this social assistance. Look, it's a hypocrisy, it's a quadratic hypocrisis, and it's just a bluff. If you want us to believe you in any way, then, I don't know, tax the capital at least about as much as is on average taxed in the European Union, but not that Slovenia, as far as capital taxation is concerned, on the tail of the European Union, in certain studies we find a formulation that Slovenia is an effective tax oasis. But, no, you wouldn't interfere, for every cent that goes social, but it's a problem right now, and it gets complicated right away. You are literally making up arguments, as was the case with the committee, or as we are facing today's plenary session, you are going completely around the problem and pretending that it does not exist. In the meantime, in society as a whole, you do quite differently than you do under the Succession Act, so that it is right and fair to act. And here you can see, dear coalition, that you're just looking for excuses, how to get rid of the poor even more. Like they're not enough in Slovenian society already on the ground. Your actions, your actions, your coalition, testify louder than your words. In the coalition agreement, you have written down that you will eliminate the return on social aid for property of lower value. You're doing the opposite in diameter today. Convince me of the sincerity of your intentions, your words of action. Support our amendment, the amendment of the United Left, which deletes the return on social assistance. Only then will your words, your claims of any credibility. At this point, they sound empty, they sound like raindrops to the sheet because no one believes them because they have no basis to actually believe them. Why would they do that?Oh, my God! You say one thing, you do the other, or, like today's case, even keep your mouth shut. Next we could hear on the committee, I think it was also by the largest coalition group, that we do not know what the budgetary implications are. Okay, let's put this in context. First of all, we know very well what the consequences of the return on social assistance instrument are for people. And this is not for people in general, for those most exposed in our society, especially here on the ground of pensioners. The coalition gives or would like to grant tax exemptions to the rich, but in the event that this is happening, while you are supposedly seeking to balance the budget, you are granting tax exemptions to the rich and you are not interested in the budgetary implications. Why are you not interested in the consequences, the effective implications for the budget, when it is necessary to relieve the tax-rich? But when we get social assistance, solidarity social assistance for those who are in poverty, often not on their own account, then you ask yourself at once about the budgetary implications. At the time, however, it is important how many of the fiches mean to the budget. But when hundreds of millions are given to rich people extra, just because they exist, but then the drilling of the budget hole is not of minimal interest to you. This is another case of hypocrisy. I repeat, who do you think believes you? Your actions and your words go hand in hand. But in this case, the budgetary implications I went so far into your hands, and that was a long time ago, just to find out the number, I have already put a written question on the subject of budgetary implications through the Institute of Returnability in 2015. You know what they told me, what the government said to me? For 2014, €216 000 was recovered from these social aids and social allowances. 216 thousand euros. Less than a quarter of a million. Less than a quarter of a million. The Slovenian budget is not the richest budget among the countries of this world, but I am firmly convinced that the good EUR 216,000 for the poorest in our society can afford it. Even from the point of view of our modest state budget, this money is nothing. The government had no idea how much they had seized for the property they had sold, who didn't know how to handle it, didn't have it, didn't want to disclose it, or whatever, but I honestly believe it didn't have it, but they attributed in their reply that there's not much of it. Now, let's compare it to the scale: €216 000 came through the institution of returnability back into the budget, but 16 thousand 100 pensioners had already given up a protective allowance, beneficiaries of a protective supplement in 2012; these are people living in poverty, extreme poverty, who are trapped in some small apartments, possibly somewhere on the periphery in decomposing areas, unregulated sanitation. Yes, even people with such housing conditions turn to us and explain their hardships to us. And this is a profile of people who have renounced the necessary protective supplement, which would not even raise something essential to their standard of living or anything like that, only their suffering would be facilitated by little. 216 thousand euros against 16 thousand 100 pensioners who have renounced the protection allowance. Is it worth it, coalition? Is this account actually worth it? I'm not sure it's worth it financially, but in the account of any other kind of social, social, comical, whatever you want, it's certainly not worth it. Two more comments on the implementation of the views. The debater, or anyone else, I think Mrs Kotnik Porotat, who came to present the position of the Desus Group as a speaker, said that they would support this law, but still expect the protection of the poorest. Yeah, how the hell are you gonna support this marriage in Desus? For the 15th time, in my debate – in 2012, when the return of social assistance and the protection allowance entered into practice, 16 thousand 100 pensioners were denied. In 2012, you briefly erased an additional 16 thousand 100 pensioners below the poverty threshold. In this law, the law on succession by deleting the article on returnability through the amendment we made in the United Left, you have the opportunity to remedy this error, you have the possibility of returning at least a few of the dignity mentioned to the 16 thousand 100 people. And you cannot claim to expect the protection of the poorest, but support the law that is on the table where the return on social assistance is provided in Article 6. The Social Security Benefits Act only provides for the amount of this returnability, how far it goes, how precisely this is being operated, the returnability itself is laid down in this law, the Succession Act, in its Article 6. Maybe someone took you by the nose, maybe your own government or your own coalition partners took you by the nose, my fellow Desus, because I'm not sure you're very excited about supporting such a law if you think about the social consequences that he's left on the people he left behind. And in this place, I think it is also worth noting mainly because of you in Desus that this law does not change often, that I think they have also pointed out from the government or from another coalition side that it has been reprinted once, twice in recent years or in the last 25 years. And today we have a unique opportunity to delete the return on social assistance. One of the most criminal and unfair, antisocial provisions in our legislation today can be deleted. Are we gonna do it? Depends if the National Assembly gathers enough votes for something like that. The smaller parliamentary groups, the coalition parliamentary groups, are a negligent language on the scale, you are nothing to worry about, you are certainly a language on the scale that is urgently needed to delete this return on social assistance and the protection allowance. Otherwise, with the support of this amendment, which deletes recoverability, I somehow do not see how with a little credibility and integrity in Desus you can support the Succession Act with an intact Article 6. Now I don't know if I'd say, you're fighting for a pensioner, you're looking for a pensioner, or you're supposed to be trying for a pensioner, you're supposed to be fighting for a pensioner. This is what we will see when the vote on this law and on the amendment of the United Left to Article 6. For Mrs Porotat, who represented the position of the Desus Group, it was the SD's turn to begin his intervention by comforting colleagues from Desus, yes, the protection of the poorest will certainly be arranged. My dear soul, how is she going to be all right? When's she gonna be all right? When's she gonna be all right? Where will it be arranged if this provision is laid down here and now in the law that we are considering today? The Institute for Returnability of Social Assistance is in here. It's what we have on the table today. It's in this paper. Social protection legislation deals only with the implementations referred to in this provision. And, I'm sorry, it's just a bluff. I mean, you're parading with some social phoscules, but in practice you're doing something completely different. All right, because I would say that this business as is entirely in urban politics, but in this case it really matters to me completely, because, for the first time, for small money, I've already given very concrete numbers – I mean, we don't get to a million; and secondly, it's a serious social impact for people who don't already have gods and are older, and they're hard to help each other and so on. Fuck, come on! Can we stop fooling around, or can we stop fooling around?Oh, my God! The removal of the return on social assistance has no significant budgetary implications, but it can have significant consequences for people's lives. You know, it may even extend life to someone, given that we know how wealth inequality and poverty affect the shortening of life and how the oldest in Slovenian society are subject to poverty at all. And I'm going to finish my intervention at this point. I don't want to hear from you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat wanted a word, and after you, Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Your Honor! I have to replicate, and I'll be very short. Because such debates seem unworthy to me. Discuss your problem, your view of the matter, do not invite what the other said, what that parliamentary group is, what opinions it is and so on. Well, it's funny to some people, but I think it's the Succession Act, and it was also said before this debate occurred, Mrs Tina Brecelj, the Secretary of State, said that matters relating to social transfers would be dealt with and dealt with in a special law. And Mr Škoberne said earlier, because in Desus we also had an invitation in the position of the Group of Members to the Minister to prepare a law on social transfers as soon as possible, this change would not have occurred that these groups of socially disadvantaged people in our country would not have been affected. And this marriage, as it is said, will be put on the table in a short time. However, for the law amending the Law on Succession, we have heard what areas it regulates and mainly regulates inheritance. And that's why I don't think that this data, that 16,000 pensioners are affected, is also not accurate because it doesn't apply to all of these 16,000, this number is smaller. Now, I don't have it in me to serve with data, but things aren't as they were presented. However, I call once again on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled to really prepare a change to this law on social transfers and then to settle these matters. Here, of course, in the coalition, we decided not to support these changes 6, 7 and the amendments to New Slovenia, because, as I said, this will be regulated in the Law on Social Transfers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Allow me to give you a full list of the discussers. Mr Miha Kordiši has the replica, followed by Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, a colleague of Desus's. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] She had a discussion by the way, not replicas. So, may I continue? Look, my colleague from Desus, I didn't even get mad at you or at your group, I didn't beat you up, I didn't punish you if anything, I urged you very passionately to support our amendment, say this expression of trust, yes, in fact the expression of trust, yes, in fact the expression of trust, because I'm a little squeamish, but I hope that you may take this step and support our amendment, that you will not only support the Succession Act. And don't have those, I'll say, more passionate debates in the National Assembly for Unworthy. If anything is unworthy, poverty in the European Union is in the 21st century. That's unworthy. The poverty of pensioners is unworthy. I think my debate here is on the spot and in sharpness and tone, just by content. As far as the 16 thousand 100 pensioners are concerned, the eligible beneficiaries of the protection allowance which they have waived, I am also convinced that this information is not accurate. This is the data of the Institute for Social Protection in 2012, and I have no doubt that there are even more of these cases today and that the situation is even more acute. So in this case, we have to even agree with you in such a funny way, and to conclude my replica, I will once again invite you to support our amendment. Let us draw on this recovery of social assistance from the Succession Act, which is set out in Article 6. You all have papers, all Members have papers in front of you, as far as I can see, open marriage and read Article 6. This is set out here and not in the Social Security Benefits Act. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have tabled two amendments to Articles 6 and 7 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is interesting that the coalition has not yet said absolutely nothing on this subject, although it is an extremely important question which ultimately defines whether or not we are a social state. It is said that this is not only recorded at the declaration level in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but that we are actually asking ourselves on the basis of what we are doing in the National Assembly, whether we are a social state or not. I am afraid that today, if this amendment of ours is not supported, we will fall on this social state exam, as we have done many times. But it's only right to warn the opposition of that. See, we have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 6, with which we want to amend the existing article governing the recovery of social benefits or exemptions. We propose that the inheritance of the property of a person who has benefited from aid in accordance with social protection rules is not limited. And what does this mean in practice? That we will all understand together that we will know why it is so important for the coalition to approach and support this amendment today. This means that in the event of the death of the one who received social transfers that he did not receive because he did not like to work, or because, I don't know, he wanted to live at the expense of the state. That's not true. He obtained social transfers because the state did not actually allow him to find another way and live a decent life. That is why we have been enshrined in the Constitution, that we are a social state, and that is why we must fight again and again. In the event of the death of the person receiving social transfers, it happens after this law that relatives will have to pay back all these social transfers, and that is unacceptable and unfair, respected colleagues and colleagues. Social transfers are intended to help people. They're helping them. That's probably what we all understand what that means. Social transfer is intended for people in distress when they are the weakest when they are at risk of social distress, so the state grants them assistance. That's not a privilege. But here, speaking of privileges, perhaps the coalition would cut into some privileged pensions. Privileged pensions received by some. Some, however, have retired at 40 and continue to receive privileged pensions. Maybe something should be said here, not to interfere with the weakest, cut it into the weakest layer. It's a shame. And here I admire Desus' attitude, actually. I admire this attitude, how strong this attitude is, that nothing is done in this area. If you've shown an attitude to this, let's say when you're interpreting the Minister, that you knew that she was objectively responsible for what happened in the case of the Korean boys, but I expect you to play your part here as well. Because we need to know that in Slovenia currently lives below the poverty threshold of about 300,000 people. About 400,000 suffer from social exclusion. Four hundred thousand. That means they're on the edge all the time, so they can fall over. All these people need the assistance that we as a country owe to provide. Look, unemployment is getting worse. If we look only at the pensioner circle, the risk of poverty is around 10% under 65 years of age and more than 20% for the elderly and the main problem is low pensions. Low pensions. A total of 60% of pensioners receive less than €622 per month. 40% of pensioners have a pension of less than 500 euros. Nearly 100,000 people have a pension of less than €400, so they live, especially if they are alone. And today, what are we doing? Of course, this law is not only bound by this structure of people, but it is right that when someone chooses not to support an amendment, what consequences this will have for the social state and what consequences this will have for the generation above 65 and below 65. But you need to know that. The fact is that the elderly are most at risk of poverty. I mentioned earlier that about 400,000 people are socially excluded, in several areas, from income to material, housing, health, civil participation and interpersonal relations. And here, let me point out that all of this places us in a dishonorable second place among the countries observed. Slovenia is in the last place. Thus, Hungary is the only country that has an even greater problem with socially excluded individuals who are after most of the age. All other countries have this through different transfers, through different proposals much better regulated. Dear colleagues, there is more to work on, that is a fact. Even if they will, I don't know, maybe in the fall of the early elections, again. It doesn't play roles, it doesn't play roles. We have to do our job. And to return to Article 6 or the amendment to Article 6. Many are denied social benefits just because they are afraid to burden their descendants, who, under this legislation, must then pay back to the country the social benefits that these people received legally from the country and because it was so right and just that they could survive. We are not even talking about a life of exclusive dignity that should be reasonable in itself, but we are talking about a great survival. And now you're missing these moments, these moments. That's unfair. And it is far from what is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that we are social and that we are a rule of law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to reconsider. We have tabled an amendment to this Article 6 with slight variations, but the essence is somehow common to the content that is crucial. And I'm really asking you to back this up. You will do no harm to the greater good and to the benefit of all those who are the weakest in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Interesting, I could say, a happy sequence of agenda items for today's session. At the previous point, we talked about changing the constitution, putting in a new right, and we're actually testing here. We are now practically at this point to test whether, specifically, Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia works. This second article, we all know, says: “Slovenia is a legal and social state.” That is why I, too, will voice the disappointment that there is no Minister for Social Affairs here today, as you can see that these discussions are largely socially intrusive. I really miss her, and I hope she fought in the government when the government adopted this new law on succession in the direction of a social sense that the minister should have. Ladies and gentlemen, Nova Slovenija, as you know, makes regional visits every month, so that we are actually close to people, not just at some declaration level. I know that you listen to stories like, "Something, for God's sake, in Parliament make my pension a little higher." The lady or the gentleman has a farm pension, you know how much money that is. You know you can't live with that. If we calculate 250 euros per month, that's 3,000 euros per year. 3 000 euros a year and for 2015 it is calculated that the poverty risk threshold is EUR 7 000 111. 3,000 on the one hand, the poverty risk threshold of EUR 7 000 111. Well, by the way, to remind you, we proposed a new Law on Income in the New Slovenia National Assembly some time ago to adopt a new, higher general relief, which is €7,000. It would be good for you, colleagues and colleagues, to go down to our level as people call us most of the time, to let everyone down, including the coalition, to try to simulate how to survive with 3,000 euros a year. Of course, we are also responsible for the state budget, which is reflected in this amendment. We are not saying that the social benefits of the state or the local community must just give. When it comes to inheritance, we say two-thirds must get the country back, or the local community, because the local community also has too little money, we talk about this a lot, especially the right-wing bloc of the opposition. That is why our version, our version of this amendment, is one that in fact respects Article 2 of the Constitution – Slovenia is a social state – and on the other hand also cares for the budget of the State and the local community. Somehow the adoption of our amendment, the amendment of New Slovenia, would eliminate confusion in the law. These two-thirds were not just remembered, but these two-thirds were actually also referred to by the Social Security Benefits Act, and somehow in this Succession Act, you would be in league with this Social Security Benefits Act. Yes, I myself find, as a colleague before me and others, that a coalition should somehow understand this signal, this signal given by the opposition. Practically the whole, the whole opposition has tabled amendments to Article 6, but we would really like to see if you, too, are proposing a solution that is possible in the third reading, which will be possible at this meeting, so that we may try to find a cross-cutting solution to all the three solutions proposed by the three opposition parties. Above all, we would like to be in New Slovenia to listen to us. Or do you think we're here just to talk in one day? Our only tool, according to my understanding – for 25 years we have already had parliamentary democracy – our only tool is the debate. Of course, it must be on a high cultural level, I do not want to offend anyone, do no harm in any way, but it is only that we are paying attention to this solution, which is currently in Article 6, and is, in our opinion, bad. She's bad. Let's take a step forward if we spoke at the previous item of the agenda and you were saying how nice it is that we were united, that virtually no one would oppose the change of constitution and so on. Let's take this step now. Let's take this step. What's it gonna cost us? We'll do something good for the people. And we're going to make and prove that we're serious about some of the writings, including the new ones in the constitution. If the opposition is now driven smoothly under these amendments by 6. Article, then I will have bad feelings about the future of some right that will be enshrined in the Constitution and will be bound to the right to drinking water.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the word, and then it is the government's turn and I will take over the application further. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. We have not previously pointed out enough that sometimes it is unfortunate that the descendants of those receiving social transfers have similar problems. Now tell me, let's put ourselves in their shoes. For example, if you somehow live relatively decently, go to work, or if you are not receiving some form of social assistance, your parents are, more than that, you can’t help them because you have to survive alone. And then when fate or nature does its thing, you see that what your parents left, maybe a house or whatever you're in, I won't say I'm born, but I've lived since childhood, maybe it's part of your historical branch, you're bound to it. What are you going to do to keep this because the country is going to take it away from you? Because she didn't help your parents, but she just lent them. They will take credit so that they can even repay what, if we really are a social state, we would have to provide. Let me remind you something, because it seems to me that it may not be quite clear what we are talking about today. I am sorry that the secretary from the Ministry of Justice is here, because, as I have said, I think there should be representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, although this is in this law, but perhaps it is the intention that once this has been adopted and some other law will be corrected, it will turn around again, because something is adopted in this law and excuses will be sought. Why do I have such concerns? And you won't say I'm always black-eyed. 2010 was the so-called Lightener's Law. This one defines this kind of way, so we don't help people anymore, but we lend them. Otherwise it went and is written in some certain quantities of two thirds etc., in short, different options are. Let me remind you, but here I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of Desus, who I believe you also want to do something about it, then the current Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, stated that this is the most social law. With that change. And since then, there has been no change, my respects. And now you believe that the sun will shine, and tomorrow we will have the law at our table. Moreover, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed to amend this law, this article. We have proposed it, and it has been rejected, if we solve it better, comprehensively and so on, and citizens and citizens continue to oppress poverty. So much for what's gonna happen. Nothing's gonna happen. Unfortunately, it is also because our Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs speaks one language and another works. Take a look at this, this case, the SD entry on the website: “Social policy in the country. Slovenia will become a winner in the discipline of high quality of life, a socially secure and connected community." And get out of here. This linkage is already visible inside, because we are not able, but it does not matter which amendment, in the Slovenian Democratic Party it is not about our amendment being adopted, it is possible that any other amendment to the same content can be adopted, it has the same message. It's all about helping these people. But how can someone who publishes such records do nothing on the other side. Of course, I cannot appeal to the SD Members here right now, because we are talking about their minister. It would be as if you were bumping your head through a wall, but I appeal to you, Your Honor, Desus. Earlier, Mrs Porotat said well that they were just negotiating and that there was supposed to be a change, but I am warning you again, and this burden will be borne by you, these changes could already have been if it had been the will and there was no solution in this National Assembly to this. And with this record, we're only going further. And I'll tell you again, not only do we take citizens in some way, we become some kind of tenant, you don't, you borrow, and then you return. You can imagine how terrible this must be for each individual. But we go even further; in Article 7, we write “may”; it can be so in one congregation; it can be different. Is that the right solution? Not only is it that many of them are now, and these are the ones who receive a protective supplement, in some ways it will bring security, but it will now be important, even where you come from, from a more rich or less rich congregation, because the one who is less rich will, of course, do everything in order to collect and settle these obligations, because the country is putting the burden on the congregations again. It wasn't much of an average, that's all. And, of course, the poorer congregations will be interested because they cannot follow only every individual there, but they must look in general. Perhaps the richer congregation will be a little more merciful, perhaps someone will see more voting aid in the next election. That's not right! Now we don't just share people with the poor and the rich anymore, now we're dividing them into where they live in this country. It's all about this law, and it's not a good solution. Our proposal for Article 7 is only that the word may be removed. Make it all the same. For this, too, there was no hearing on the home committee, of course, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party – who is taking us seriously here. But now you're going to have to step back a little bit and live your life. Yes, very well, but perhaps not in our lives here in this national assembly, but in those distant ones who often do not hope to tell out the state of life. And they're already living today, and they're gonna be worse off because what the state is supposed to be out there seems to be being turned down. Can you imagine pressing them against the wall? We're a social state, you can have a protective allowance, you can have social assistance, and then you can have it hard into the wall, but your kids will bring it back. This is not a social state, these are just nice writings, nice words, some publish them on websites, but reality is cruel and remains. Today you have a chance, I haven't even turned to SMC today, we're finally talking about a thing that was previously in marriage, but you could change it today. I have to say that by making recommendations for some other proposals on how things should change and speed up, looking for those responsible for the bank hole and also not knowing today whether we would give these 100,000 for the social weak, the poor, pushed down at the bottom or not, you weren't. Well, that's your ethics and morals anyway. But for others - here you could play your SD, if you're really writing and thinking about what you're writing and publishing, then this amendment would be supported. This is where I appeal to Desus. If this moment is for your pensioners, support one of these amendments, do not wait for May or for better times or for the sake of the Minister. She could be, but she's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. First, I would like to say about the opposition's amendments. I'd like to say, although I'm going to say some substantive things here that I'm not first called about, I've already explained this to you because it's not our department, but it is. The Constitutional Court has already ruled twice whether the right of the State to regain what it has given to someone on the basis of social transfers is simplified, unconstitutional or contrary to the principle of the social state. And it has always not been established by the Constitutional Court, even more so, if the State does not do so, so that when the criteria are met, it does not collect what it has given, but can now get back, cause social injustice or make it easier again, it may run out of funds and deprived those who would be entitled to social assistance. Once, as has been said, the Constitutional Court ruled on this in 2000. I have a decision here before me and I read, if the country, after a person no longer needs help, has to be paid from its property which would otherwise be given to the heirs. I will quote exactly: “It is permissible that after a person no longer needs help, the country will pay from its property, which would otherwise be given to the heirs. Otherwise, the State would unduly reduce the means to provide assistance to others who need it because they do not have other appropriate means of living.” So much for the constitutionality or content of the opposition's amendments. Now, what I'm more called for is the law of succession. Let me point out once again that the Succession Act is a procedural law governing the judicial procedure, to which to distribute the property remaining after the prodigal's death. This is the law governing the procedure by which the judge distributes the property that was left after death. Of course, the law also has some substantive provisions that the judge may carry out, but these provisions relate in particular to helping the court to determine the right of the prisoner and to tell the judge who the heir is in a particular case. I have in mind provisions on successions, derogations from rights, entry into the right of succession and so on. The Institute for the Limitation of Heritage, both in us and in many other countries, of course exists. The content of this institution, i.e. to what extent, which contributions, who is liable and when inheritance is limited, lays down other rules, i.e. social policy rules, in our case, the Social Security Benefits Act. This is the law that gives the Institute the limitation of inheritance content and the judge, when he has this content, only when he runs the legacy procedure must, I simplify again, also argue whether I have a limitation of inheritance in a particular case and whether or not this institution happens. Whether it happens or not, at what height it will happen to whom it will happen, and for which contributions it will happen, other rules will tell the judge. That's what a judge, a lawyer can't fill up on his own. I wanted to stress this in particular. In short, it is quite the opposite, as Mr Kordish, Comrade Kordish, pointed out, if I use his language. The content of the institution of succession limitation is filled by another law, the Law on Social Security Benefits, and the method of implementation in the succession process is a matter of the law on inheritance. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's a replica. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The secretary said there's a starting point. I don't think anyone talked about the unconstitutional nature of the matter. Otherwise, it probably wouldn't have worked. But you know, I'm gonna ask you something else. If we went to the Constitutional Court today and asked if all those who had stolen social property should return that money? What would be the decision? You'd probably say, of course, because it was a theft of social property. And don't just sit there and come back. And then it would probably be a little bit more money and even such a decision, rather than running out of money for others, would not be necessary. But just one more sentence to think about, Your Honor. Currently, on this issue, the most vulnerable single women who had never had their income have also taken their so-called state pension. They're getting help now, and if there's anything else, then they'll get it. That's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Yes, the specific content of returnability and so it is found in other laws, but the institute itself and the returnability as such is in this law that we are considering today. If the opposition does not discuss what, one hour, two hours, how long we have been at this point, and this is simply a bluff to deny the fact that the return on social benefits is treated as a credit rather than as solidarity social assistance to the weakest, poorest, most exposed and so on, it is concretely institutionalised in this law, in the Succession Act, nowhere else. And nowhere else do we have to fix it, nowhere else can we delete it, we can only do it here and now. In the Succession Act, not in the Social Security Benefits Act, and so on. Look, it's a bluff. I even suspect that they invented this narrative in the government and this story because they sold it to Desus' MPs, because otherwise I can't imagine people supporting such a law that struck so strongly, especially pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Who wants to discuss it now? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marinka Levičar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all those who accompany the meeting. In view of the fact that so many criticisms were made at the expense of Desus, I could not help but turn myself in to the debate. Everything said by colleagues, both right and left political options, is, of course, true as regards the poverty of pensioners, as far as widows who are most affected are concerned, as regards the protective allowances which many have given up on them, because of the change in the rules for obtaining and maintaining the right to a protective allowance. In short, it's all true. And now you will be wondering why we then wrote this position of the Group that we do not support this amendment or your amendments to Articles 6 and 7. I think this is because of this, this is my personal position now, of course I am talking about my personal position, because I believe what Mrs State Secretary has said that this will be regulated in the amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act. I believe this will be true, but I am surprised that the Minister of Labour has not proposed this before. Now my colleagues have somehow told me that this will be until September. And I think if it really isn't by September that we will, at least I will personally insist that Desus table amendments to this law, which will allow for a limitation of inheritance. After this arrangement, there is now a limitation of inheritance to two thirds of the assets. Then it's written here in the paper that you're thinking about excluding property of less value. What's less than that, we're going to do it again. I think that we should exclude the apartment or houses where these beneficiaries live, but it doesn't matter how valuable they are. People just deserve it, live in it, and that's their property that they can't give up. I don't know, I don't imagine an older man who's gonna have to give up his home to get a protective allowance. So it won't look like Desus is completely insensitive to all of these social issues that concern the elderly who tend widows, as you have already said. We will insist that the Social Security Benefits Act will change as soon as possible in the autumn. However, I would also like to reply to my colleague, Anja Bah Žibert, on the state pension, that the state pension was exempted from this system, that it had helped earlier. Indeed, it was exempted, but any person who did not have his pension or income could have received a state pension. It was not taken into account that he could, for example, have a very high pension of a husband. Family status, family status, property status were not taken into account. And that's why this pension was cancelled at the time. So now no one has it. It could've changed something else. It's just a fact. Well, so much for Desus. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This law regulates the material things of the poorest. And what the government is proposing in this law is a first-class piece of shit. I'm sorry for the hard words in my mouth, but it's a first-class shit. People who are entitled to social benefits are those who have the least and who are supposed to get something over €400 – I apologize, I don't know the exact numbers because it's not my area of expertise – you're going to take what they actually got, the dead or their craftsmen. And that's what you're actually doing, and that actually means you're excluding social benefits from the system. Which means we don't have any social benefits at all, because everyone's gonna have to pay them back anyway. You know what else pain can perfidibly remind you to return with interest. That's all you can say. And I can tell you that I didn't mean to announce this debate, but when I listen to it, I have come forward and rightly say that it makes Slovenians the poorest people the biggest shit they can do. Of course, it is also an immoral act, a depravity that the state will give to those who give something to the poorest and then take it away. And you know, Madam Secretary of State, you're right, the Constitutional Court has already said something about this, but social benefits are being regulated here today. Today, here and now. And there's no Minister of Labour here, so I want the President of the Government to come here for such a question. This is a few ten thousand people. And don't think that with the Social Benefits Act, Mrs Levicar, I personally respect your opinion very much, but look, it's not going to happen. [[…]] First of all, this September, don't trust this government so much, it's the first thing. Secondly, Madam Secretary of State is for justice and not for social affairs. You don't have any promises from people who would probably give you very reliable information, if that's what it is, it's the Ministry of Labour. Secondly, I simply ask, Mrs Levicar, your opinion on this, but you are doing something else entirely. And I tell you, nothing is going to happen and for social, for protective supplements, the government gave in 2015 about a million and a half, a million 571 I have written., it gave for protective supplements. She got back, as a colleague of Kordish said, just over 200 000 euros. What are you doing here? When we talk about bank holes, when we talk about billions, and so on, when we talk about a few 100,000 euros that don't mean anything to the budget, you're actually going to deepen the poorest segment of the population right now. And you deny the whole social state in this country, the whole social state, because the social state is gone. It's essentially banking, banking, because they're essentially going to give credit, and then you have to pay it back, and it's through inheritance. And look, really, let's just imagine what you're doing. And may you really consider not the opposition but the United Left and do not know who, but the sound logic, be honest and be righteous.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I wanted to answer some things, and the Secretary of State has already explained how it is with this return of these social benefits to those who then pass away and have to return these benefits. The point is, in this case, when the heirs may be more wealthy. You know that Slovenians are very emotional about our property and that even if we are socially threatened, we do not want to receive social assistance and give up on it, even if it is small, even if it is painful, but we want to leave it to our children and we prefer to live in poverty and, as I said, we do not accept social assistance. It also happens that the heirs are more wealthy, and it would be unfair, unfair, that the state in this case would not get back what it has submitted for the social assistance of the deceased citizen if there is a possibility that the heirs could return it. As see, the Social Security Transfers Act also identifies the property or social situation of those who have to return assets and this is very important. Ms Tina Brecelj also cited the Constitutional Court's decision, saying that it would be unconstitutional if the state did not require the return of what it had given. Of course, even when it comes to maintaining the elderly in their homes, even those children or other relatives who are obliged to take care of themselves under the Family Relations for the Elderly Act pay only as much as their income allows them, the remaining payment is due to such an elder who is no longer able to care for himself, a self - control community, the so - called congregation. And even in this case, if this elder has any property, of course, the congregation is justified in reducing that inheritance’s inheritance to the part that was paid for the care of that man. Secondly, what I would also like to say is that Mrs Eva Irgle was discussing that we had a pension burden because of the retirement of younger people. Remember that year in 1991, 1992, when at age 24 at 30 and so on, people were retired who, of course, did not pay the pension allowance as much as was necessary and did not reach the age limit, but a government decided. It wasn't Desus' government. Please don't hang up on us. The pension box was used for things that didn't belong in there, yes, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is laughing now, but actually that's how it was. It is necessary to ask who had already decided – first the government and then the MPs of that national assembly, then the appeal – and the pensioner’s box office became impoverished with a lot of money, and today we are here where we are. And believe me, Desus is a party that is not satisfied that the elderly are in such poor condition, the vast majority of them, that they receive such low pensions, and of course we will do everything for them to improve, but look, even years ago, not so far back when your government submitted the so-called ZUJF and when we also people, yes, there was a moment when we put people into great poverty. Nor will I forget this when I realized that in my neighborhood she had taken a mother from school, from high school, because she could not pay him more transportation from Ruš to Maribor. I'm still having a hard time seeing this guy stay uneducated today, because we've just deprived them of that supplement, both for the scholarship and so on. These are things, when you can't just do that, today it's cool when the opposition is talking, and that's what we should do when there's no money for everything and when things need to be resolved systematically. I do not know how many times it has been said today that these matters, social transfers, will be decided by amending the Law on Social Transfers and that this Act on Succession, which regulates elements of international succession, is the true application of the European Certificate of Heritage, the heirs of different species, not to mention them, the legacy without heirs and so on. This is not a law that is supposed to solve social problems, social transfers. And it has been said and Marinka Levičar said earlier that if Desus would not, but the Minister at the interpretation here in the National Assembly has promised to prepare this law in the shortest possible time, they are now allowed and will indeed have to wait until September or October. I believe she'll do the same. But we can't say now because we don't have this moment right here on the table, that we're going to be mixing everything into this law of succession, potatoes and onions, and I don't know what else. That's not how it works. And that by means of this law we will delete a certain article in another law. Yes, Your Honor, what kind of chaos would arise in our legal system if we were to delete certain articles of the second, third, fourth law in various laws? The systemic solution must be and must continue to do so and I ask for patience to conclude this debate now and to adopt this law on succession and to settle these matters, which I have listed a little earlier, in this law and to meet with social transfers immediately after permits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u104	Dear Kotnik Popotat, you have challenged me many times. For one thing, this law speaks of inheritance and social protection. Let's read Article 6. We don't mix pears and apples, we just have to read. Second, you're always pulling this ZUJF out again. You were part of the government, not only that, but you've been part of the government since 2000, always language on the scale. You've also said before, give it time and we'll take care of it. We have proposed an amendment to this law, but it has not been adopted. And what else should we wait for? To make the poor even poorer. And only for the intermezza and when you give me that answer, then I'll believe you. How, though, will those today who are migrants and who do not even know whether the refugees have returned all the aid they receive from the State?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr Vice President. First of all, I must say that I am extremely disappointed, sad to hear the debate, especially Desus, really particularly Desus. When I heard that they themselves found that this matter was arranged as it is, unfair, unfair, and do nothing. And you claim that you will solve this problem when a marriage may come, the next, on a bench that will fix this problem in a different way. I don't understand that. How much longer? You've been in power for two years, and there's still nothing done in this area. You're still making people more poor, day in and day out with your decisions taken by this government and this coalition. You're making more and more poor people. The money that was stolen doesn't come back. And here we're trying to take with such small things what people have spent their entire lives burning and living in a house that's worth not knowing how much, and now we're going to support it. It is said that the country works exactly as it did in 1945 when everyone had to collect everything. Then you can see on the other hand how the state can deal with state property. You all see, you're all judging. Everything that is practically state-owned works extremely poorly. Very irrational, and so on, not to speak in this direction. And colleague Andrej Šircelj made it very clear earlier, this is the first-class mess of this coalition and this government, first-class number one. And don't talk to Social Democrats and Desus about how the social state must work and how justice must be regulated in this society. Do you know how you understand settled justice and the social state? That on one side we have an ultra-rich ultra-group that can do anything they want, they steal everything they want, we don't get a dime back. On the other hand, every day there are more poor people who cannot survive. That's how you understand the social state. We don't. Not me. Not in the Slovenian Democratic Party either. We are aware of what social state means, we are aware of what justice means, social justice. And please stop fooling the Slovenian people in such a way that you come with such laws that go absolutely to the detriment of those who are most threatened. It's going to their detriment. And don't say that in Parliament anymore, we have a state secretary from the Ministry of Justice, who is a pure bureaucrat who lives like a little god, she's doing very well in this world, a hundred percent, because she can be checked, and we could prove that you live like a little god. And you are here today to shape the fate of this poor people, who are extremely hard to survive. Ma'am, tell us how much money you have to pay, no problem, and people will know what role you live in, and those who have 300 or 200 euros in pensions. Tell me, but we don't have a problem, because we don't have to hide. We don't have to hide it because the taxpayers are paying us. For me, everyone knows how much I deserve, by having to go to the elections every two years, three years or four years. And you're stuck there like a little god. And you're bureaucratic here and you're saying things like that when I've listened to you now and this is so vehemently, listen, Jesus Mary, not we have to do this strictly, or the country will go to hell. And you're talking about the rule of law. For you, the rule of law is what is happening in Slovenia, and you hope to talk here about the rule of law. Are you even hoping? Look at the shit that's going on, all the biggest bandits in this society are forgiven, they can do whatever they want. All the biggest robbers are forgiven, they can do whatever they want, nothing happens to them. And you say here that the government is right for whoever stole the matchbox. I'm asking you nicely, but stop fooling around, not fooling around and not telling me I'm not telling the truth. No matter how I tell it in my own way, people understand that truth. Go among your people and see what they tell you. Exactly what I just told you. That's what they'll tell you. And that's the only real, concrete, honest truth in this society. And I will no longer listen to you with these lies, that you will destroy the poor nation day after day, that you may take away from the poor nation those who already have nothing, whatever they already have.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u107	Mr Pojbič, please, if you will calm down a bit and also your language, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President, you're right. It's very sad that I have to raise my voice in this house of democracy, which is supposed to be called the house of democracy, because you just can't watch it anymore. It is no longer possible to swallow this way, it is not possible, because things are going in the wrong direction with us, because the number of those who cannot survive is increasing, and on the other hand, a constantly smaller group of those who are giant thieves, and nothing happens to them, nothing happens to them. This is because of these different uncles from behind, lobby from behind, and so on. Recently we had one such opportunity, I think that tomorrow's law in the hearing here, where they are, that I will not say all of it, the ministries, the government, the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Legislative-Legal Service of the Government have overlooked the key thing and that we now have two months or three months in the middle of an empty space so that those who have done the pigs will come through nicely because the lobbies have taken advantage of the opportunities and these people have prepared to bring the decision into the National Assembly. I'm not saying that the politicians you're sitting here knew this, but it definitely couldn't have happened without the fact that it wasn't a bad story back there. No one's gonna tell me that, but I'm not saying that you knew that to the politicians sitting here. However, I think that this is pig, pig, absolutely tasteless for this society and this country, that this is how the rule of law works. And, ma'am, look, I am really saying that I am in a very bad mood to see people sitting here for so long in a position that they don't take care of and do absolutely nothing, so that once the rule of law in this country works and that people can live normally. That is why I will also support this amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is right that at least one party in this Parliament is fighting for social justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, good-bye! Dear Members and Members, too! My beginning, however, I will ask you, Vice President, to allow me as a Member so that I can listen to these discussions normally. I understand that there is a lot of anger on the part of the honourable Member, but I am not obliged to listen with such high tone, because, as a representative of the National Assembly, I still think that we are on a level and I would expect you to react as Vice-President at the outset. In this gruesome debate that has taken place, I must admit that I am very surprised for several reasons. First of all, the law before us has 19 articles. All the time, the debate is about just one article and a little bit of another, in particular, 6 or 7. And here I immediately question whether my previous debaters even know what we are talking about today. It's the law of succession. And the Succession Act — the one he read — or even the proposal for a law on succession is made up of two parts, one is substantive provisions and the other procedural provisions. And if I can help. Material provisions are the Succession Act and the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies is the Denationalisation Act and procedural provisions are a fair and unfair procedure. And if in this part, somehow for the introduction, I'm going to have a preliminary discussion, I'm going to wrap it up somehow. I wonder whether today the item on the agenda of the National Assembly is a change to the Social Security Benefits Act or whether I am on the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee on the same law. Obviously, we have a major problem in the National Assembly, Members, which we interpret completely differently the individual provisions of the law. Legitimately, but in some ways, by raping my own views with other Members, I think there is a limit. Before I start the debate, I have to say the next sentence. I have a feeling that a lot of debaters in front of me don't even know what inheritance means. Moreover, because of this amendment of the law, some new institutions are being introduced, which are very clearly recorded in the bill. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have never before faced an institution that has confirmed its heritage with an international element. And it is my duty, as a Member, that before the adoption of the law, I do not speak of all possible lumbarties, because for this there are other points, other committees, but that citizens, citizens or anyone who is interested in a certain direction to be interested in such an area receive information as to what the legislative authority wishes to adopt by a certain adoption of the law. I'm just touching, what really encouraged me to do this opening work in some way, but I'm sorry that I'm running out of time for this part, is the same thing that obviously we Members don't understand each other at all or we don't know how to read, or what we read, we just don't want to understand what's written. The sixth article, the first sentence that has already been quoted today, will be requoted as follows: “The assets of persons who have benefited from aid under social protection rules are limited to the amount of the aid received...” and interestingly, the very controversial debates that have been useful, but not for this item of the agenda, and the second is the case, “... unless otherwise specified in the social protection rules.” Thus, in a second regulation, which is not the subject of today's debate, everything can be annulled. I think today's debate is very useful, but not for this item on the agenda. However, if I touch myself, just because I have listened to the simple agenda of the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs so far, I will touch on what the Secretary of State has warned twice – which we are talking about today. Firstly, we are discussing the transposition of the EU regulation on these so-called cross-border procedures, given that we are actually members of the European Union. Secondly, the correction of shortcomings, which some, who also appear or express very loudly in some respects, have been long-standing Members of Parliament. Then I wonder why it is only with this law that there is no violation of the 2009 Constitution. We are now 2016. Not to mention then again the elimination of non-compliance with the 2013 Constitutional Decision. All those words that fly to my group, our group of Members, are completely unwarranted. If a long-standing membership is a good one, then I would expect certain matters to be resolved in the past within a reasonable time rather than in six, seven, eight years, at least for certain groups. Furthermore, this paper, which was also very clear in the presentation, shows that there are still minor changes. These changes are crucial for citizens, citizens or us all who face the fact that someone simply dies or that someone is declared missing. These are the two key issues directly affecting the Succession Act and then proceedings are initiated. I think that for those who have not yet met with such procedures, how important it is that the State regulates these procedures and is intended to do so. Among other things, these are so-called minor matters regarding the possibility of entering into an agreement to cancel an undeclared inheritance. It is necessary to admit and here, colleagues on my left, is what the SDS Group, which is talking so much about the elimination of some injustices, I have also been present some cases from this area are very painful and nothing has ever been resolved. But let us be aware that this law on inheritance is a third change. Do you know when they used to be? The last change, second, was almost 15 years ago. Then where are we all, or are those for whom there is something special in this House for a long time? Another issue, which is also related to some of the current activities that touch on the abuse of unjustifiable property acquisitions, bank holes and the like. We have a practical connection to bankruptcy procedures. You know, these are things that have hurt a lot in this case in recent years and have also been personal tragedies, but we don't talk about it. We are only talking about one matter, and this is a miraculous solution in accordance with the Succession Act, the so-called social benefits or transfers. Given that I myself have listened carefully to all the debaters, most or all of the time for literally social benefits, I will still allow myself, because so far there has been no word on the substance of this amendment of the law, and this is a transposition of the regulation, and it is right for citizens, citizens, to know what it means to transpose this regulation into our legal order. The fact is that this Regulation entered into force in 2012. The fact is that this Regulation sets a cut-off date from which cross-border succession procedures or those so-called succession procedures are established. This cut-off date is August 17, 2015. Given that we have not so few or so young people who travel much and older, that I do not speak most likely also on the subject of business opportunities, life is a coincidence and many things can happen, and it is therefore important that we be aware of what happens to their heirs, what happens in such cases, if one of us simply does not want to do it, but these are life events and the legislator has to deal with such matters in advance, even if this is related to European regulations. What is important about this Regulation is that this cross-border succession applies to all Member States of the European Union other than Ireland and Denmark. If we have read the regulation, Great Britain is also written, but we know how it is with this country. One more thing I would like to touch on this Regulation, namely, what really concerns each of us most, is the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. The European Certificate of Succession is what I have missed in this debate. This is a completely new institute that is being introduced. And what practical evidence does this certificate of inheritance prove? It proves the status or right of an individual, in which case an heir or an electorate, I would like to ask, interestingly, whether those of the bile debate on social rights, or whether we understand what an electorate also means, but I do not want to offend any of them, only that is the subject of today's debate. It's the law of succession. And the fact is that the associated shares with them, because we know that under this Regulation will simply be decided on so-called legacy treatments in the competent courts across Europe as well as with us and what is very important is to unite into one place, is said to be both the local competent court and the procedure itself. In one process, the entire property of the prodigal or the one who was found missing will literally be saved. Furthermore, this European Certificate of Succession proves the allocation of certain assets, which is part of the legacy of heirs or voters. This is very important. And what may not have occurred in our Slovenian space in some way, but it will be more and more present that we will also meet with wills. A lot of people are pretty well aware of that, but I don't think most people are. And the fact is that this European Certificate of Succession also makes it very clear who is the executor of the will and the management or manager of the legacy itself. I could still discuss it in this context, because I think it is useful for all users, these are citizens, to tell us what we are bringing with this law and what they are directly concerned about. However, I would like to make a few more words to that area of amendment of this law, as I said in the introduction, of the nineteen articles and not just one article. I believe it's very important. But it is obvious that Members do not understand that you cannot bring or compress all areas into certain legal matter, nor is this the intention of the legislator, nor is this in accordance with nomotechnical rules. I think that as representatives of the legislative branch of government, we must be aware of such matters whether we are inclined to a particular mother or not. I wanted to touch some of these nineteen articles, from 13 to 15 articles, two or three. Why do I think this is important? It's just because I think most citizens no matter where they live, we're staying, we've already met with the Institute of Mortality. And the fact is that these mortals are an important issue in view of the fact that, on the basis of the death certificate, there is a legacy procedure in place, in our legal order is the competent District Court in the Republic of Slovenia. And since then, at those painful moments, these mortals have literally been fulfilled or performed on competent legal units. In the Republic of Slovenia we know that this is 58 administrative units, and let's add a few more local offices to this, and this is what the service of the state is in these so-called difficult moments for a lot of people. And the essence of these death certificates is something that a parent who is in charge of the public administration to prepare, describe and familiarise with this document all the necessary supplements, information that the legacy process can be completed as soon as possible, and in particular in full. The existing Law on Succession has had and has most of the things already arranged, but the amendment of this Law complements, above all, those provisions that have so far been found to be flawed and that there will also be abuses, whether at the address of those who thought they were entitled to an inheritance or those who might have been abused in previous stages in one way or another by the will institute. And this is what I think is crucial for the amendment of this law, and here they protect everyone's rights, especially in moments like I mentioned, which are not most pink. The fact is that the existing law on wills is detailed in this Article. I think we've met such moments here in the past, and I believe it's not bad experiences. Sadly, however, practice and daily life are particularly common among people who are a little ignorant and do not have the resources to do such things during life to be abused. And here I welcome such provisions to truly sign in, to complement all those matters for which administrative authorities or courts have, in these legacy proceedings, all the years so far found that abuses have occurred and those heirs who are entitled to property have been abused in a number of cases. This is our primary duty as legislator in this case. One more thing to do. I will touch once again the 6th and 7th articles, which today have very much stirred up this national assembly. We're all going to be lumpos, or I don't know how I can explain myself as a member of the position if I don't follow some matter that an individual Member can interpret a certain provision. That's why I'm going to say it again. The first sentence of Article 6 makes it very clear to the Member that the provisions on social protection can be set out differently. [[…]] And if the content is otherwise specified, this is strictly taken into account in the provincial court’s proceedings. And I would like to ask all the honourable colleagues of the National Assembly who have discussed this to you that you are at least as active and impulsive as you are on the Home Committee for Work, Family and Social Affairs. At the same time, as far as I have information, this law is open. And I see no reason that now is this bile debate, which is completely moving away from the content of this law. As far as Article 7 is concerned, the debate on the parental committee was, in particular, “may”. Here we talk to the congregation or the country may be excused from paying for such expenses. I have commented myself, and we will repeat here, but in some ways I do not understand this kind of thinking by the opposition for a simple reason – who knows the social status of the individual in some local environment. I am convinced that this is a local community, in which case the municipality, its team, its close associates, but not somewhere far away, which we often say is centralised, but even the regulation of certain social rights. And I think that mayors with their teams have such a social sense and awareness of helping their countries that they need such assistance, that they should not normally be a problem at all. However, if they estimate that their social situation is not so weak or that they would even abuse it, then it is only right that he decides differently, that is to say that he does not admit it. And that's how I understand this word "may". So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. That's all I'd say, dear colleague Dusan Verbic, is that each Member actually determines its own cultural level. The chairman, of course, is the one who has committed the offence of beeping after he has been committed, and in this sense he has little difficulty. Of course, I apologize to the guests, Madam Secretary of State, but that is undoubtedly what I have to do. Mr. Miha Kordish has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Since it has been commented on as part of the hot controversy, I do not know what tone at this point of the agenda is my controversy, I certainly have to respond. What we just heard from a representative of the largest coalition party, namely SMC, is a simple bluff, it's guilt and it's bullshit. To all Members of this National Assembly to report that we do not know that we do not understand, in the most elitist possible tone. And you can be sure that this tone not only flew to the opposition MPs, but was well extended to 300,000 poor in our society. Why, however, did I get angry at such an attitude and because of this kubajig content that was not supposed to be in the law of succession and we all in the opposition were supposed to be pushing past, including past the nomo technical rules, the first, of course, rhetorical question comes to me. Yes, if our amendments on the removal of social assistance are not in accordance with the nomotechnic rules, why does the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly say that these amendments are in place? First time. Come on, next time. If the return of social assistance or reimbursement is not the subject of this law at all, why, then, under the same article that does not contain reimbursement, you introduce the cost of a funeral if someone is so poor that the cost of the funeral is borne by the congregation if the reimbursement is not the subject of this law. Look, it's a bluff, it's a stretch and it's not right. It's not right, you're fucking not. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President! At one time, however, it was suggested that Slovenian through centuries of puritanization was cleansed of all the fun elements of its language. I guess it wasn't. In fact, much of the debate has been held, and I thank you for that, by my colleague Verbič, who has explained the meaning and purpose of this law in very detail, in a very taxive and very clear way. I would have asked a rhetorical question about what would have happened if today, in the law governing the procedure, the Minister of Defence sat down and represented him through the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. Perhaps someone would ask themselves after health and, above all, ask us about health, how we can even discuss such things. Here this difference is not so clearly manifested at first sight, but it is almost as strong and equally visible and yet we are hearing evidence that this law does not regulate the right content, and if I were to regulate what was being debated today, I would probably be sitting there by State Secretary Martina Vuk, and instead I would be presented by my colleague Prikl. But there is no representative of the Ministry of Labour and colleague Prikl did not present the report of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Persons with Disabilities and Equal Opportunities, because this is not the subject of this law. And we all probably agree that the law, which was addressed by the debate, must be reconsidered that it is necessary to change it in an important part, because, of course, none of us, I can probably say for all of us, does not accept the logic that some property in which a person lives can be the object of sealing. For other properties, which are subject to this and do not interfere with this existential framework, I do not understand why they should not be. And if in the past there has been a misjudgement in the legislative process, even on our part, we may be inclined to correct these errors, but not in the law that does not regulate it. And not the way we're going to open a debate today about everything, just the content of the law before us, not. We have heard from Mr Pojbič, inter alia, that the persecution of those who are guilty or who are responsible for the bank hole is not taking place properly. This under A is not the subject of this agenda item, under B, but last week we listened to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who complained about why he was being persecuted and why criminals and the Prosecutor's Office in Banka Slovenije were interfering with him for the deletion of his subordinates. Then we listened to the analysis and criticism of the coalition tax reform in the Succession Act, which I believe is not the subject of this debate, either. It was said, however, that we are giving in to the richest, despite the fact that today at the press conference it was reported that 50% of the burden on those richest colleagues was being maintained. You're stealing, aren't you? And it was said, we have one of the lowest capital taxes. We're taxing legal persons' incomes. My friend Kordish, isn't it? That, I understand, is quite the opposite of what you were saying. We relieve those who have the most. No, no, no. We maintain 50% of the class, but we relieve those who have the least, and we relieve the reward for success and the thirteenth salary. Do you agree with that or are you against it? And now that we're talking about all these discussions, or we're talking about the service in the Slovenian Army, otherwise it's not the subject of this law, but it probably doesn't even count there. Or, I don't know, Slovenian language policy. Otherwise, it is ZVIS, which partially regulates this in one of its segments on Friday, but let's give today something in the spoils, because we still have some time. And then let's put this little mixed into laws, and then we'll have, I'll put my head aside, if not, an extraordinary session, how the government can afford to make laws that conflict with laws, which can't be done, which creates confusion, because it means inefficiencies in law and where the rule of law is now, so that we citizens can know what law governs, from this title to regulate our rights or to regulate our things in court, administrative units or wherever it's necessary. But today, in this debate, it obviously doesn't make sense. Or it is only logical for some of us on this side, even though it is possible to agree entirely on the very content of social policy, which is governed by a minister of our kind. But that's exactly what we're going to talk about on the Labour Committee, and we're going to talk about it when there's a marriage in the plenary that concerns this department, because there's also some government law to disentangle and divide these things. And yes, we can accept criticism and accept it as another law that can be substantively linked to it, and we need to arrange one thing there. And why, at the outset, in my presentation of the Group's position, I said that this would be settled. Because this is also recorded in the government's normative plan. And if I understand correctly, everyone has a chance to see when this law is on the sidelines. It's on parliamentary vacations. The Slovenian Democratic Party is kind enough to avoid delays, and this same law has been tabled. And if I understand correctly, it is on schedule for the general debate at the September session. And then here in another law, which regulates the procedure and not the content, takes away the whole bile debate and creates the impression that here on this side we are blowing up at everything and at everyone, but at the same time, if we do exactly what the opposition wants us to do today, we are being criticised for creating chaos in the rule of law, because we are creating chaos within the system of laws and because we do not understand the basic distinction, what is the process, what is the policy in which the law governs processes and through which acts the content of policies is governed and enforced by the state. And other than to conclude that in any case we will get them all over our heads and that obviously someone miscalculated when they will be early or regular elections, because if they are in the autumn, then after my knowledge, we have missed our hands, and now we have not missed our deadlines, and we still have the government, so the fall is probably not going to be, but the debate is the same as having three days before the election and it will be the end of the campaign on Friday and the silence on Saturday, and we are going to be happy to vote, and then on vacation. But none of it holds. As is not the case in this law, it is based on the basic misunderstanding of what is on the table today, but also on the deliberate misreading of the articles that are proposed. My colleague Verbich made that very clear. The law should be read from the beginning to the end. Very good. If someone doesn't do it, it's to read at least the article he's adding from beginning to end. It's usually one sermon, it can be multi-pollutant. And today, from the four key points of the solution presented in more detail by my colleague Verbic, it is necessary to adopt this law. And yes, then we have to go, and I believe there will be differences in the regulation of the Social Security Benefits Act. And I look forward to that debate, and I also look forward to today's magnetograms, because I imagine that someone will be able to change their position by then and by the time the actual content is made, even at some point. I hope not. Otherwise, an interesting debate and for a reason a general one, because it was concrete only in the case of colleague Verbič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Dušan Radič, you have raised your hand, Mr. Dušan Radič. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I have to respond to this exercise by my colleague, Škobernet, or representative of the Social Democrats, because they were politely said to be misleading, that we are talking about nonsense and empty about tax reform today, because there is no place for this. See, when an argument arises in the debate that the return on social assistance is reasonable because the heirs are supposedly wealthy, yes, if these heirs are wealthy, and if the property inequality is such a big problem that social assistance is to be returned because of wealthy heirs, then step up progressive taxation for the richest or for the money. In such a context, of course, we come up with tax issues very quickly. But what I started to talk about was this, and this is what I'm going to do. This government has done nothing against growing inequality in the last two years. Social Democrats, members of this government, have done nothing against the growing inequality in two years, except, of course, they have rejected several of our social labour proposals. Finally, the SD economic programme says very well that they would go to unload the upper middle class. It says it in there, it's not a job proposal, look. And one press conference, a few words without empty words, two years of inaction or doing social damage simply doesn't erase or fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u118	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Believe me, I really didn't mean to come by, but when I hear Desus and Desus and Desus and how little we care or don't care about the pensioners, I have to tell you in this place and I don't know because many of you who have discussed before are no longer here in the hall. Comrade Kordish, I'm glad you're still here, but some of you are not here. I want to tell the entire Slovenian public, the public, the voters and the voters who sent us, who sent me to this National Assembly: I care much, every day with every moment and every place. However, when I hear that this law has done everything wrong, that we must resolve everything in this law and resolve what has not been resolved in previous mandates and mandates, I must point out some professional and substantive shortcomings. If something went wrong, it is in the ZSVArPre – the Social Security Benefits Act, the ZSV – the Social Protection Act, and not least the ZSDP – the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which regulates how children have to take care of their parents and, of course, vice versa. Finally, the beginning of something bad is also in the famous ZUJF. And if we make a mistake today and all in the same basket of the Succession Act, I'm sorry, I can't find a legal term because of the time of distress, squeeze, stamp, put, yes, then we'll make the same mistake that we did with the ZUJF when we solved thousands of laws all in one and the same regulation. That we've done too little together in the past for the socially disadvantaged, I'm sorry, that's a fact. That's a fact. Why haven't we done enough? Because we have been in a given situation, as it is, and because some of the rules that we are called gold or fiscally, however you want a rule where in Desus we have not yet been given the opportunity to give another exception to the lady, and this is the exception to the fundamental disasters and the drastic deterioration of macroeconomic indicators to give further deterioration to the social situation of vulnerable target groups, this law is pressing us and, of course, the ZUJF already mentioned and some other things. I am pleased, but I will not spread the matter that today's coalition has reached an agreement to maintain this highest income class of 50%, to relieve that middle layer and lower layer, and that, however, this is my adjective along with, but gently, we are increasing the tax on the income of legal persons. Yeah, I forgot to say that, the fact is that we haven't done enough, I'm going to back this up for the socially disadvantaged. It's really hard for me to see that those who are now in a well-earned retirement who have spent 30 years and 40 more in both cash registers in the budget are socially at risk. I am deeply saddened that they are socially threatened and that they are on the verge of a social minimum, if not already under it, those who go to work and work 8 hours or more hours and are, of course, in a very poor position those target groups that are uncompetitive in the labour market and do not get a first or any job. What does the Research Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Security tell us? They say that recently the situation in the Republic of Slovenia has deteriorated dramatically and that a growing percentage of people who are socially at risk have increased, or as a percentage, the risk of those who fall below this threshold of social exclusion and social risk has increased. However, in the autumn — whether it will be hot or cold or frozen or whatever — some of the things in the past we owe, we correct, we soften, but slowly, and we alert and change them. I am talking about the Social Protection Act and the Social Security Benefits Act, that such transfers will not be loans, but that it will help those who actually deserve and need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, for your application. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we've heard a lot of bad words at the expense of the Succession Act. The new law, as we have heard, is primarily designed to amend certain provisions relating to European legislation; or this European legislation is somehow being implemented into this law. But most of the debate took place in a kind of direction that the coalition by adopting this law does not follow some aspects of the social state, that it deprives some of the social rights. I have to deny it. I am sorry that this debate has resulted in such serious words, literally to insults, because there have been many things overlooked. It may have been released that the limitation of inheritance does not apply to those who are in some social problem receiving social assistance; rather, that this limitation of inheritance affects his heirs. This, of course, is not irrelevant; it is important; but we do not have any information in the adoption of this law on how wealthy these heirs are. We may even have instances of heirs — children, daughters, sons — being transferred to whom someone with social assistance has transferred his belongings. On the other hand, we need to know something about whether or not we let this limit go, but we have a case where a real son, a daughter or anyone, in some difficult social situation, can happen if he receives some social assistance if he inherits some greater property, that this social assistance or some income from the country will be reduced because he has more property because he has more inheritance. This restriction, yes or no, does not directly address the social assistance of the needy heirs. And because of this, I think that these amendments are even somehow misleading; that I am not talking about these obviouss, that we do not want to listen to the principles of the social state. That's absolutely not true. The amendments also do not solve these matters. For those in need of social assistance, the State must first and foremost ensure that such assistance is not needed. However, if necessary, his status will not be resolved by the State’s ability to inherit as much as possible, since, on the other hand, he will again reduce the benefits he has granted to him by the time of his inheritance. This is the basic reason why we reject the proposed amendments; far from it, as we hear some really incorrect indications, because we would not have listened to anyone. We must not forget, however, that this provision has been in some way in the Succession Act since 1976. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you. In the light of these three amendments to Article 6 of the Members' Groups of the United Left, of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia, the position of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, of the Communities of Slovenia and of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, which have all taken the view that, in the event of succession, the procedure should be carried out up to the full amount of the aid in question. The municipalities are those who pay or somehow fill this gap when individuals and heirs cannot bear this burden. I think it would be totally inappropriate today to accept amendments that are not in line with those that provide funds for this purpose. Especially since they made these comments to the basic text of the law. For this reason, it is simply not possible to accept these amendments, otherwise we will have, at the next stage of the rebellion, if I may say so, congregations that will certainly protest against a solution which they have apparently also tried to achieve through the principle of public debate that the text of the law is as it is written right now. However, I must say that it is likely that the Social Benefit Act will have to be cleared too, because some things are written differently under this law than are now recorded in this law. And regardless of the fact that we refer in paragraph 1 to the dictatorship, that the amount of aid received is paid, unless otherwise specified in the social protection rules, fill this gap in a little bit; but I think that this law will really have to be opened and this law fully cleared or harmonised and the social benefits law already in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Radič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you very much. As Mrs Brecelj said earlier this morning, the main objective of the amendment of the Succession Act is to legislate the amendment of the International Heritage Charter; to make it easier and more transparent, to equalise the various partners and to regulate the legacy without heirs. Then something else came up. We started to hear about pigs, about hot porridge, and then we ate them, about the fuckers; but what must be the naked and cold truth against the shimmering ferrets of lies. Let's look at the data; the number of recipients of monetary social assistance in Slovenia is increasing. In 2014, the recipients of social assistance were 50 000, in 2015 54 000 and in May 2016 54 000 882. At the competent ministry, they see the reason for this in the fact that the aid does not have to be recovered. Hence, an understandable number of people are asking for it. Exceptional social assistance is not returned, and with monetary social assistance it was limited to return to inheritance. With regard to the inheritance of the ugly state of Slovenia, I dug up all the data, the country inherited 270 recipients of a protective allowance or social assistance last year. 117 cases were also concluded last year by the State Defence Office, which represents the state in these proceedings. Where beneficiaries have a security allowance or permanent social assistance of immovable property, they shall be entered in the value of the work of the aid received by the State, which shall be professionally referred to as the limitation of inheritance under Article 128 of the Succession Act. If the heirs also need assistance, the court may waive the right of the State to return; the comma, but it is extremely rare that the heirs also need social assistance. In most cases, the Courts have made proposals to the Republic of Slovenia to restrict the succession of concessions, say in the State Defence and add that in 95% the heirs have paid the claim. Then we'll go to poverty. According to the latest data, there were 1 in 6 people living under the risk of poverty and 1 in 7 people living in Slovenia. This is indeed scary data, but Slovenia is included in the European scale among countries with a relatively low level of risk of poverty. According to Eurostat, Member States of the European Union lived on income below the poverty risk threshold, 16.6% or 83 million people. In Slovenia, 14.5% or 290 000 people live below the poverty risk threshold. I am confident that there will be much fewer of them in the future with the measures taken by the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Not to mention the lies in this debate that are flying from the coalition side, I'm already angry at this subject, I'm not going to do it again. I will only give if someone claims that the return on social assistance is not the subject of this law, this does not mean that this claim is actually true. As far as overplaying on the subject of assets is concerned, we see that the coalition is trying to tap its antisocial measures by putting a pin on the fossium. In the debate, we were able to hear the legitimacy that people like to retain property and that, I quote, "even if it is small, even if it is boisterous". Love of soul, just because people have little wealth, just because this property is boisterous, people want to keep it. Restrictive social legislation frightens them that they do not reach for the social transfers they need bloodyly. We have also heard that the Law on Succession is not a law that solves social problems. True, the law of succession is now a law that creates social problems. The Law on Social Security Benefits in fact only provides for the way in which signs are made on real estate; and if the social pouf, which is enshrined in the Law on Heritage, is not drawn up, it will also be derived from the Law on Social Security Benefits in September, on which some of you bet so much, from the bread of poc; and social as a pouf will remain. Support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We've closed the debate, okay. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the identification of catastrophe income in another defence within the framework of the ordinary procedure. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I propose that the meeting be suspended at this point until it is clarified why this amendment, which we have tabled under Article 17, has been rejected. You wrote it as if it was incorrectly filed. If we do not clear up this matter, because this is a key amendment to this law, this debate is also in some ways irrelevant. I propose that the meeting be suspended, that colleges be convened, that these matters be clarified, because it is pointless to hold a debate to suspend or eliminate the amendment of the opposition group. I propose that we first regulate this technique or this matter; then it begins with a debate on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I have an explanation for the job because it was already a debate on the working body. The Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 17 of the bill you have received and published in Lotus Notes. With regard to this amendment, I note that it has been incorrectly tabled, so we will not discuss or vote on it. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments may only be made to the amended draft law in respect of the articles to which the mother's working body has accepted amendments. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group wants the content relating to the third paragraph of Article 16 of the bill – this is the value of the cadastral income and the flat-rate income assessment of the bee master, which they attribute to each other in each year – to be regulated in Article 17 concerning the termination and application of this law. No amendments were adopted by the home labour force at Article 16 and no amendments could therefore be tabled at the meeting of the assembly to this Article of the amendments. There is no basis for such conduct in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the second reading, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled an amendment to Article 16 but was not adopted. If the debate and vote on that amendment were to be allowed, this would be an important precedent for the further work of the National Assembly relating to the second reading of the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly on the supplementary proposal of the law. This would practically mean that almost no restriction would apply to the application of amendments to cover decisions taken at the meeting of the home working body. I will not accept this conclusion of your procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that such interference by the leadership of the National Assembly in the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party is inappropriate. There is absolutely no reason to state in the explanatory memorandum that a single amendment has already been tabled in the same text but has not been adopted. This is no reason for the amendment to be suspended. We can submit all the same amendments and the Government can submit them, so there are absolutely no obstacles. As to where provisions or content are being tabled, Mr Hainz may be submitted to transitional provisions, please, if you are listening. [[…]] Amendments may be made to transitional provisions, even if no provision has been made. There's no holding back. It is also not a problem to submit this because it regulates certain matters relating to the adoption or enforcement of certain provisions of the law; it is the same as the provisions of this Article. But it is obvious that the coalition must in some way enforce the law in order not to allow any explanation, no change to the provisions of the article, which would have any major impact on the situation of cadastral debtors, as foreseen by the government. There is no complete deviation from what the government has purposed. And what you have afforded the Presidency, the leadership of the National Assembly and the Service of the National Assembly is very similar to what another President of the National Assembly, also with the FDV, Mr Gantar, did in one term. He said that the amendment would not be allowed to be tabled because if this amendment was adopted, the law would fall. Or he refused to make an amendment because the amendment was diametrically opposite to the content of the article; and he did such nonsense. And what you are doing now is exactly the same as what was happening at the time this National Assembly was led by Mr Gantar. I therefore suggest that you stop this meeting, that we discuss and agree on the dilemma that we have been called upon to do so. If the services of the National Assembly were well-intentioned, they could also point out that the amendment is being tabled differently. That's why the services of the National Assembly are. I suggest you stop this session in half an hour to resolve this dilemma.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. As the meeting took place during Mr Gantar's time, I do not know, but I do have an analogy from the 13th meeting of the Assembly, which has already dealt with a similar case when you wanted to see the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group under the second item of the agenda. In particular, the proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2016 and other public sector measures was similar. It was then similar in the case of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, the urgency procedure, and the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. That was in this mandate. I can't do anything else. According to what I said earlier, this would be a precedent if the possibility of making amendments under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which limits any discussion to any subject in any case, of course, was unlimited. And I won't interrupt the session. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President. These precedents, as regards violations of the Rules of Procedure and violations of the Constitution or breaches of laws, the creation of legal voids, you who refer to them have already afforded yourself in this mandate enough to collectively withdraw. You've had so much of them. That's why it's your insistence that you've made a decision once and that you're going to keep doing this, it's pointless. If you are not able to interrupt meetings for half an hour, to discuss this with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and to tell the services of the National Assembly why they were unable to warn that the amendment had been incorrectly tabled, then something in this house is wrong. The conspiracy theory then holds, because in any case, you can't wait for someone to put in something where you'll find some trick, some trick, that you'll refuse the case, and then you'll pull off the procedure the way you're going to. With the Maritime Code, you have abolished the provisions of the Labour Relations Act when you refer to procedurality, to systematicity, to integrity, to integrity You have taken or detected suspensions of mandates and so on. But now that I've given the initiative to talk about this complication, you just don't order it. The minimum standard of communication in the National Assembly is to agree on the matter, a minimum standard. But if the coalition has chosen violence to force what it has made, through the National Assembly and exactly as it has imagined; then that is quite a problem. By blocking the amendments, it eliminates and impedes completely all debates that could take place on this content. It's totally inappropriate. The National Assembly is the subject of debate and communication, not of an arrogant rejection of all initiatives aimed at guiding the meeting of the National Assembly or those taking place. That, to put it mildly, is inappropriate and also inappropriate. I suggest, Mr Vice-President, that you stop the meeting, Mr President, that we convene a meeting to discuss this matter, including the reasons why this has happened, is also important because this is an integral part of the parliamentary procedure. It often happens that we get a case in addition to or a change due to any shortcomings, and I would like to discuss it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. This is some kind of violence by the leader of the parliamentary group, but that there will be no feeling, especially for those who listen to us outside, I will interrupt the meeting in half an hour, meet you at 15.35; while the president will review matters and decide again with the professional service. [[…]] Thank you very much. The leaders of the parliamentary groups shall meet with the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u134	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u135	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income, which was prepared in cooperation with the public concerned, is before us today. I have only presented the content of the law at the first reading of the bill before the National Assembly, so allow me to focus today on the news transmitted by the amended proposal of the law and reflect the additional coordination with the interested public that we have carried out after the first hearing and before the second hearing on the working body. Let me remind you, already in the basic proposal of the law, some solutions have been put in place to improve the existing regime for the determination of cadastral income. Thus, the income of agricultural activities, as shown by the economic accounts, excludes the revenue of activities for which income is generally determined on the basis of bookkeeping; for example, part of pigmeat and poultry farming. Income from the processing of feed is also excluded; the income from the production of fruit in intensive orchards with the real structure of production is harmonised. The flat-rate income assessment system also includes the production of special intensive crops, such as intensive gardens, strawberries and other perennials in the fields for which income has to be determined on the basis of bookkeeping. The coefficients for increasing cadastral income for the production of olive oil, wine and special intensive cultures have been harmonised. The recognised costs for forests and bees are set at 80 % of the revenue. A three-year transitional period for the gradual transition to new amounts of cadastral income has been arranged. The amendments have been more clearly regulated by the definition of specific crops, the share of fruit production that is taken into account for the calculation of cadastral income in intensive orchards has been further harmonised and a specific system for forest land has been set up, which takes account of the growth coefficient and the profitability as a criterion for income distribution, taking into account in part the requirement to take forest conditions into account. In addition, it has been made clear that the cadastral income of the vineyard for the production of wine is to be determined as a double of the cadastral income of the vineyard for the production of grapes of average production capacity; this is with a rating between 51 and 60. In addition, at this time, we have carried out coordination with the public concerned in relation to some of the provisions to be laid down in the new Income Law. It's a public hearing today. The government estimates that the proposal for a cadastral income law is good, simple, transparent and comprehensive. It solves the problems highlighted in relation to the current system and allows for a comparable treatment of all types of agricultural and forestry production. The law is coordinated with the stakeholders and therefore ensures the acceptability of the new system. Respected, as I mentioned in the first and second readings of the Committee on Finance, the adoption of the law is very important for the smooth functioning of a whole range of public functions, as well as for farmers themselves, since in the event of non-admission, they would enter into a relationship when the existing law, whose implementation is frozen by the end of this year, would become effective. It is therefore important that the law be adopted so that it can be enforced already for 2017. If business reasons are met, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that a third hearing be held at this meeting, thus allowing the law to be put into effect as quickly as possible and the implementation of new solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u136	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a mother's labour. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u137	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! As has been said, on 28 June, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered this proposal to be a parent labour force. For this hearing we received quite a few materials, first of all a request from the coalition parliamentary groups SMS, Desus and SD for the emergency meeting, we received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, we also received an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which also conditionally supports this proposal, and a letter from the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which submitted a proposal from one of the amendments, which was proposed later as an amendment to the Committee. The amendments were tabled by the coalition SMC, SD and Desus, SDS Group, in three tranches, according to 23. 6th, 28. 6. and also directly at the meeting; and the NSI Group of Members. Also, I mentioned one earlier, two amendments to the committee were tabled at the meeting. The introductory supplementary explanation provided by the secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the activities that took place between the government and the public concerned. There has been intensive coordination with interested associations and non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture. Furthermore, the main solutions were presented, and the transitional period necessary for such changes was also exposed. In the opinion of the Secretary, they found appropriate compromise solutions for the topics which were still open at the time of the submission of this proposal. The secretary from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food highlighted the essential advantages of the adoption of this law, which, in addition to transparency and modernisation, are also the possibility of flat-rate income calculation for intensive crops, as well as the possibility that income will be included in the cadastral income until the lower volume of basic crops. Following the presentation of the Legal and Legislative Service, it was explained that the amendments tabled addressed the shortcomings they had pointed out in their opinion. A presentation by the representative of the Council of State was also followed. This said that they conditionally support the proposal. He also said that their proposals were largely accepted. But they had one reservation, that's exactly the amendment that was then the day as an amendment to the committee. A representative of the Forest Owners Association also spoke. This said that the forest does not only perform economic functions but also social and environmental functions. It has been exposed that forests can be used in us all, we collect mushrooms, forest fruits, including wild game, which, of course, is owned by the country. He pointed out that it was an increase in cadastral income in this case, and expressed some concern about the possible increase in forest road maintenance fees. The debate was followed by a discussion of Members where some warnings were received, in particular regarding the possible negative consequences for small farms, family farms and also hill farms. It was pointed out that self-sustainment was falling, that land was growing. As for the increase in cadastral income, which will initially be more favourable, but later, it is said in this transitional period, it is rising. During the debate, they debated whether young people would even like to continue working on the farm. In addition, they highlighted the potential impact of an increase in income or income on the amount of social benefits that would be assessed or allocated in such a case. On the contrary, other members and members of the committee supported the resolution of the bill, listened to a number of stakeholders and is also almost fully in line with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. It was also pointed out that, according to the expert group, the cadastral income has so far been assessed too low and these changes are therefore necessary as it is a fairer burden allocation. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment of the editorial nature to Article 2 as well as amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups; the remaining amendments were not adopted. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. As usual, this time the text of the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u138	Since the Assembly held a general discussion at its 20th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment was summarized after the amendment proposed by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber on the home working body and was on the home working body 28. 6. 2016 also adopted as an amendment to the Committee. Unfortunately, he did not receive sufficient support, so I am pleased that we are repeating the exercise with our colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here we wish to appeal to the thought that these amendments will be accepted. Then the National Assembly could say that we have taken into account practically everything required by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. This is because accounting data according to the FADN methodology show a difference between the value of production and the cost over the last five years of 94 % and is therefore proposed to take account of this data. In the present sixth paragraph of Article 6, we have this number at 90%. It is said that it is practically a change that is actually different in nuance. However, the proposed new seventh paragraph is necessary because the amount of costs in basic agricultural production is different for agricultural land without a more detailed actual use and for agricultural land on which there are permanent crops; the latter are 90 %. My colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to read somewhere that already in April Mr Dejan Židan, who is in some way the guardian of Slovenian agriculture, said he would not allow the cadastral income to increase by more than 100% compared to the current situation. When I read this, I said to myself, well, I guess the farmers would have somehow gotten over it. However, it is for Pomurje that we note – and here I have asked for specific calculations of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which I have here with me and you can also see them or send them to you, colleagues and colleagues – these are the calculations of the profession, for the pomur region, that according to the current situation there by 2020 the cadastral income will rise by 500 %, i.e. factor 5. Let's leave the absolute numbers now, but I ask myself, and I hope you're asking yourself, how can you plan a business when you have such a drastic burden?Oh, my God! I understand it well, it's not a tax, it's just a tax base, it's a cadastral income. But as a result, we can calculate that the cadastral income tax will also rise, which is perfectly normal. Pomurje is a very significant landscape, both in agricultural areas and by the proportion of the rural population. Although Pomurje covers only 6.6% of Slovenian territory, it has 22.3% of Slovenian fields and gardens; 12.7% of orchards and 11.7% of vineyards. Compared to Slovenia, we have a smaller share of grass, only 4.5%, and forests only 3.5%. This is a specific issue that I regret to note, but I do not interfere with the relations and relations within the Agricultural Forestry Chamber; but I find out what follows from the letter from the Regional Forestry Chamber of Murska Sobota, which was addressed, among other things, to the Murska Sobota, that even within the Agricultural Forestry Chamber the requirements of individual regional units were not taken into account; in particular, the Murska Sobota regional units. You know that, for example, in Pomure, which is also known for its pumpkin oil, those who grow pumpkins in the fields must not sell pumpkin oil directly, which is not the case for olives. Here we simply do not see some logic, it was simply not taken into account and I am also pleased that the State Secretary on the Finance Committee confirmed, which I myself knew is the possibility of making an informational calculation for the debtors for all the years when the calculation of the cadastral income under the new methodology begins, or for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. So an informational calculation per year for all debtors based on the current situation, the current data, so that farmers can see what awaits them. This is essential if you want to optimize the business tax. I also gave this initiative in writing to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I hope that this initiative will also please me. It would be good to have this IT calculation calculated and published on the website, if necessary, under some protection. I think that even after considering the report on the agricultural situation last week on the Committee on Agriculture, it is very clear where Slovenian agriculture is going and where the key problems are. It is good that this report, although partly not for the whole of 2015, was dealt with before today's consideration of this proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income. There we saw clearly, because the report clearly shows that agricultural prices are falling, and this is falling dramatically by 4.5% compared to 2014. This is a big fall on the annual level. And if this trend goes forward, how will we Members and Members of Parliament have the face to be able to press the 'yes' button today when voting on the law, which will specifically increase the cadastral income for Pomurje by 500% by 2020, by factor 5. There are some good trends for agriculture resulting from this report, I am not a pessimist, I am a realist. But there are some of them that are bad, which are worrisome and would deserve the attention of this high assembly when it makes key decisions for Slovenian agriculture. And one of the key solutions is certainly the Cadastrian Income Law. I ask you to consider our amendment and, of course, I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u140	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment to Article 6 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia Group is essentially identical. Before I go to the debate on this amendment, I would just like to say that, in the United Left, we believe that the adoption of this law has to date taken place in a manner that should be followed by all laws. There was a gruesome public debate, during which we also had a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, where we had practically considered this law before it came to the National Assembly. And by the time he arrived, he had already taken quite a few comments from various agricultural organisations into account. Some additional comments were then taken into account in the Committee's debate and the law was duly amended so that it is now much more acceptable to farmers. In the United Left, we think it would be much better if the law were passed along with amendments to the Income Law. In this regard, it will be necessary to set the reduction rate of cadastral income according to the economic power of the farm, thus depriving those smaller, economically weaker and socially vulnerable farmers of the tax burden. These are also particularly sensitive to the smaller increases in cadastral income, and it is unacceptable, in our view, that the Cadastrian Income Law is being adopted today while, in some uncertain future, exploring possible solutions for correcting the burden of farms under the income system. If things were to be more systematic and comprehensive, as you always talk about in the coalition, the Cadastrian Income Law would be adopted along with the amendment of the Income Act. This is also recognised by the government in the introductory part of the bill, which states that the assessment of cadastral income is flat and that it cannot be expected to reflect the real level of annual income of each farm for which data will be taken into account. The possibility of correction of flat-rate annual income according to the size of the farm will therefore be explored in the framework of the rules on income. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the need for integrity and systemativity is somehow required only for laws coming from the opposition. With regard to the amendment to the proposed Article 6, however, I believe that the cost of agricultural land without registered actual use would be taken into account at a level of 94 % instead of 90 % would not have a significant impact on budget revenues. However, it would likely be quite burdensome for farmers, especially those who farm mainly on such land and have few farms, intensive orchards, and other permanent crops. For these costs, it will still be 90%. I think that the number 94 % is well justified by the fact that the difference between the value of production and the cost over the last five years is 94 %. Therefore, in the Group of Members, the United Left will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u142	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u143	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, we all have a very nice greeting! In my previous session, I said that the Cadastrian Income Law was an important law establishing a tax environment for farmers. Furthermore, it is very important that today this law, together with the Income Act, should be dealt with precisely because the important stakeholders in this negotiating group have also expressed a demand for a cap to be put in place, that is to say a special mechanism that would prevent an enormous increase in cadastral income. Whether that happens or not, we don't know that, but there's no guarantee. That is why I have a feeling when we adopt this law today, or this law will most likely be adopted to adopt a cat into a frog. Can anyone guarantee that this special mechanism will really be adopted? Secondly, if this mechanism is not adopted, the cadastral income is not only a substantive issue but also a legal issue. Since the enormous single increase in cadastral income should be based on some real, tangible facts. And I don't see it in person right now. In the event that the law is adopted in this form, this also applies to the amendment to Article 6 to determine the recognised costs of market income at the rate of 90 %, it means that at least half of the rural households would increase the cadastral income between 50 % and 300 %. This can have very strong negative effects on agricultural economies; it can virtually also endanger a small farm. It is because of my return to the amendment that I will support this amendment, because I believe that if we support it, we will in some way ensure a more moderate future for smaller farmers as well; on the other hand, there will certainly be no catastrophic fallout for the state budget. In addition to all that I have now highlighted, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber also had an investment relief request for the purchase of agricultural land. This could also ease such an increase in cadastral income. However, we also have no guarantee that this relief will be incorporated into the Income Act. So I would say that, at present, I am sure that if this law is not adopted, the situation will be extremely critical because an existing system that is inadequate would be put in place; and it would very much burden the agricultural economy right away in the next year. But now that we accept this because it literally looks like it's necessary to accept under stress that we in some way postpone this responsibility, which will take place in 2020, when the level of cadastral income is fully established. I don't think that's entirely fair, so I would say once again that it would be very necessary for us to address today's changes to the Income Law. However, if this is not possible because it is not in the procedure, I would appeal to the government to take full responsibility to ensure that the agricultural economies do not live in uncertainty and leave a vague future. I hope that with today's hot day of high temperatures, we will not create a hot future for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u144	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would also like a little introduction before I come to the amendment to Article 6. I am pleased that today all opposition groups are united, as far as this law is concerned, and as far as the opinion on the amendment to Article 6 is concerned. Although the general debate has already been held, we have also discussed this extensively on the Committee on Finance. The opinion of our group is that in these five years, which we have extended an old position and situation, the Commission has had three years since 2013 to create some new calculation or new methodology for calculating taxes or income from agricultural land and forests. Nevertheless, this came into some time of distress just before this law had to be adopted; and then it had to be coordinated in some way. In fact, the government has been failing here, but in our opinion this methodology also seems to us to calculate cadastral income as the basis for income taxation is unfair and unfair; especially for those small farmers that we have nothing in Slovenia. Once again, I would like to stress that we have an unenviable situation in the area of food supply, that we have lost about half of the agricultural land for food production in the last hundred years. A hundred years ago, over a million hectares of agricultural land have been processed in Slovenia, now only 477 thousand, says less than half; that self-sustainment has also nearly halved over the last 50 years, that in some areas we are in a very invisible state, such as pigs, vegetables and other. And instead of stimulating our farmers to increase production in order to increase self-sustainment, we increase cadastral income and thus increase automatic taxation of agricultural land and forests. The fact that the cadastral income will increase after the transition period is over twice seems unfair to us. In view of the constant decline in prices, especially in the last two years, when the Russian embargo and the abolition of milk quotas have caused prices to drop so that they no longer reach their own prices of production and production. That is why it seems unfair to us to increase the cadastral income; it is a matter of dissuading young farmers after taking over farms, after further farming, because they cannot calculate a bright future. This has also been shown at a consultation on milk production, where virtually none of the farmers, including those who have the best conditions for milk production, will not reach their own price at the sales price. Not the biggest either, but the vast majority of the small farmers, by no means. I think that the abandonment of agriculture and, at the same time, the cultivation of agricultural land has been accelerated. This law, although the Government has turned it into a transitional period, will only come to the right effects of this law after this mandate, so that the first calculation to come in 2018, the first decision for 2017, will be lower than it is now; it is true just before the elections if there is no election earlier. This is not fair, to postpone to another government, for another period, such as the abolition of old pensions, which the government has adopted with the implementation of the next term. And then everyone thought it was accepted by the next government. On the other hand, we have hope and some time to change this law because it is not fair is not righteous. Especially not for those small farmers whose agriculture is not the only activity. Farmers who are compulsory pension and health insurance as farmers only have about 9 000 in Slovenia, by applying for subsidies of about 70 000 farmers in Slovenia. Everyone else from 9 to 70,000 must have another activity to survive. Most of these go to work and simply add cadastral income to income or salary, then this goes into income accounting and affects more than ten social benefits laws. The calculations also show that young farmers who have some underage children, students, students or kindergartens, as regards the child allowance, kindergarten payments, scholarships will be significantly reduced; and even if there is a small increase in total income for the calculation of income. That is why we also believe that it would be fair to amend the Income Act at the same time, that these young farmers who can calculate what cadastral income will mean in 2020 and beyond, perhaps to their pensions or when children are already growing up and are no longer receiving social benefits. They're gonna figure out how much damage they're gonna get. And if they calculate that it is not worth it, they will not decide to take over the farm, to modernise the farm, to develop and so on. That is why, in my opinion, it is a fear and we are doing exactly the opposite of what we should if we are to increase self-sustainment. And it's not fair, even in the case of various bites, natural disasters, we have recently also dealt with an intervention law where a farmer who takes a narrow belt can be harmed by less than 2 million and a half euros, some can completely destroy crops, destroy permanent crops, and damage is multi-annual. We can only help these farmers if the damage is so great that it is assessed as a natural disaster, this is said to be more than €2.5 million. Then we must adopt an intervention law to help these victims. In the framework of the intervention law, the Law-Legal Service also stated that agriculture must be systematically saved, through the law on the elimination of damage after natural disasters. For this reason, I think it is necessary to systematically save agriculture, quite differently from the rest of the economy, because agriculture is a strategically important sector. It's about food production and self-sustainment. And if we ignore that; so far, ladies and gentlemen, I have not noticed that farmers of administrative barriers, red tape or stimulate them in some way to reverse the trend. For now, colleagues and colleagues, no. We give this transitional decision some effect that is supposed to be in 2018 or two, but it is only for those who can calculate what will come in 2020. Therefore, we have made this amendment to Article 6, because the calculation has shown on the basis of the costs and prices of previous years that it would be right to take account of 94% of the cost of the market price of the manufacturer. We must be aware that producers cannot just set market prices, that they must adapt to competition, that competition is severe and that competition comes from countries that have significantly better farming conditions than we do. We must be aware that we have almost 80% of all agricultural land in the field of limited factors, where farming costs are significantly higher. And if the market price does not reach its own price, why do we write in the law because in my opinion, for at least three quarters of our crops, the cadastral income should be negative, where production costs are higher than the selling price; despite receiving subsidies. Moreover, 70% of the subsidies go automatically to the calculation of the income and now the subsidies have a significantly more impact on the calculation of the income than the cadastral income itself. Some farmers are desperate and say: ‘ Will my wife stop going to work because what she deserves because she goes to work, I have so much more, or half as much, then I pay the income, ’ because this comes directly into the family’s income calculation. This law does not systematically solve the situation, we do not give a positive signal to our farmers; I do not mention laws such as tax and similar, where we place additional obstacles on farmers in their activities. I think it would be right for the position of this amendment to confirm that we give at least a small signal that the cadastral income will not be so much higher. Although I am sure that before this happens, the burden of this cadastral income will be demonstrated in 2019, that it will be absolutely necessary if we want to increase self-sustainment and income in agriculture, this law will be thoroughly overwinded and made more fair. That we must also give farmers a stable business environment, such as in neighbouring countries, where this legislation has not changed for 30 years or more. But every few years, we put only the chocolates on the new table for farmers. If we do not do so in the short term, when the agricultural land begins to grow even more when permanent plantations begin to leave, no one will be able to reclaim it again. We will only be able to find out with sadness what we have done and then depend on inquality foreign food, foreign crops with genetically modified organisms, because there will be no other. Farmers will be forced to buy, import feed that is already imported, livestock farmers import half their feed from abroad; we will become food-dependent on imports. And we probably don't want that. Any smart government wouldn't afford it. We already have over 40 countries in the world that are not in the European Union, but precisely because they are significantly subsidising their agriculture to keep it in shape, they have banned food exports because they also export subsidies. Profits, income generated by the rest of the economy, give to farmers; then farmers export their crops with this state aid. I hope we sober up. I also propose a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which should make this legislation more suitable for farmers than it is for farmers. To make a meeting in places like Haloze or something to see for ourselves how these farmers are doing. This will make it easier for us to understand these farmers, for they leave farming and move to cities, even though it is not pink there; or they move across our border with their belly on bread; but at home the agricultural land remains unprocessed, which is a great harm. Not only is my debate going on here, but it is because we care about what our country will be like, what our supply will be. If we do not preserve the countryside, there is little hope that we will develop such a promising economic sector as tourism. Now we can boast about the beautiful countryside. If we put such burdens on farmers, I think they will have enough, and they will no longer do so; for they can make the right man a lazy man, and vice versa very difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u146	I'm reopening the debate if anyone else wants it? Then the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First, with regard to the amendment. The data, which are the basis of the agreement within the section, the data underlying the preparation of the cadastral income law show that there is a real cost of between 84 and 85% on agricultural land. In order to effectively recognise the importance of agricultural activities, we have proposed and to a certain extent aligned with the public concerned that the standard costs for agricultural land should be set at 90%. This was harmonised in the first phase, and we were subsequently faced with additional requirements, which were also formulated in both amendments to Article 6. The argument that actual costs are higher than 90% is in fact not supported by actual figures. Actual figures, available data, as stated, show costs between 84 and 85%. If, in fact, what has been pointed out by the applicants to reduce their income, this will be reflected in the level of the cadastral income, in the calculations for the next period. Another information I would like to mention is that in 2013, according to statistics, the estimate of the private sector's market income was EUR 240 million. Catastrophe income included in the income tax amounted to 31.4 million or 13.1%. According to the proposed law, we are based on the average size of the private sector market income assessment, we are talking about 259 million, although data for 2015 indicate a significantly higher figure. Of this, it will be included in the cadastral income of 19.45 million in the transitional period. After the final solution in 2020, 64 million or 24.8 %. If we look a few years ago, we will find that in the past we have included between 40% and 42% of the estimated private sector market income. This in essence shows that the new proposal for a cadastral income law reduces the gap between the actual income of the private sector from agricultural activity and that of the income included in the income assessment; however, a still smaller share of the cadastral income is actually included in the tax base for the income assessment. In the introductory debates there were a lot of talks on stability, including in the debates that we had with the interested public, there was a lot of talk on stability. They estimate that the proposed law gives them this stability. The solution, as we know today when the frozen situation from 2013 is extended from year to year, is of no benefit to anyone. And the advantages of this law, when certain processing from the complementary activity is treated as a new basic agricultural activity, when the solutions are built up in the Income Law, farmers have been identified as beneficial or stimulating, including for young farmers. Once again, I would like to point out that we have not prepared the draft law with a view to making public financial revenues for agricultural activities; rather, we wish to prepare a system for the determination of cadastral income, which will be adequate, fair and evenly cover all different types of agricultural production; at the same time, it will take account of the specificities of agricultural activities and, on the other hand, recognise that agricultural activity is also one of economic activities. With regard to the fact that there is no guarantee of what solutions are included in the Income Act, I should point out that today, as I mentioned in the introduction, the proposal for a new Income Act, which also includes agricultural solutions, is being made public. This is all about solutions that are currently included, which are linked to the Cadastrian Income Identification Act and are also consistent with the public concerned. During the public debate, we will continue to discuss only how much the minimum amount of processing of the first stage of agricultural crops and forestry crops for which income will not be further identified; but it will be considered that income to this value is already included in the cadastral income. The proposal for a Income Act also contains a transitional provision and contains a solution whereby wine-producing farmers, irrespective of the area of vineyards they have in use or owned, may be dealt with by the determination of cadastral income. Today there was also a lot of talk about subsidies. Let me reiterate that the tax treatment of subsidies has nothing to do with the identification of cadastral income and we are not changing into anything existing in the field of subsidies where all investment subsidies are exempt from taxation. There are approximately half of those included in the tax base in natural persons. Total of income subsidies taxed exempt subsidies for agricultural production in areas with limited potential for production, so-called OMD payments, and payments for organic production. Unfortunately, we all associate in our discussions the solutions brought by this law with the solutions involved or known in the Income Act, so let me just say once again that the Cadastrian Income Law merely aims to determine in an appropriate, stable way how to determine cadastral income; what its tax treatment is, and then it is a matter of the Income Act. And we estimate that it is right for all taxpayers to be treated according to their economic power, to recognise this also for taxable persons engaged in agricultural activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u148	There was an interest in the debate earlier; please apply. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State! The new Slovenia summarises the amendment to Article 6 in the direction that agricultural land, without registration, will have a more detailed actual use of 94% of market revenue. This is summed up by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which has this information, how it takes place and how market revenues are determined. And accounting data according to the FADN methodology show a difference between the value of production and the cost over the last five years of 94 % and are therefore also proposed to take account of this data. And now we're on the FADN methodology. What's the FADN methodology? FADN must be managed by all farmers who are seriously involved in agriculture in Slovenia, who apply for certain subsidies receiving subsidies; and, of course, for investment investments. FADN is a system of the European criterion, as we understand it, a recognised methodology which speaks of 94% of the costs being recognised over the last five years. I therefore ask you, Madam Secretary of State, if you can tell me by which methodology the estimated costs range from 84 to 86%. What methodology in Slovenia is legally as strong and as safe as the FADN methodology? As far as I know the FADN methodology, the introduction of data into this methodology is controlled through our inspections or supervisors, so that this cannot be some sort of information that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber has itself recalled; but it is a verifiable information. I really don't understand why in Slovenia we can't cover a database from one common database. Why is this a problem, why do farmers run this FADN program, if you say you have some program that, according to your data, this recognised cost is almost ten percentage points lower?Oh, my God! I do not understand why Slovenian farmers must then be burdened by this bureaucracy if it does not depend on anyone, if we do not know how to capture this data and implement it in our own legislation. Therefore, I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, tell us where your information is that our farmer is enough between 84 and 86%, because all the while receiving cadastral income from 2012 it has been said that the cadastral income has been undernourished in our country and farmers have been underpaid. And I ask again, who says that, who dares to say that?Oh, my God! But the farmer who processes and processes food, including organic farmers, who have to dig in manual corn and everything else; is that what people, experts who sit in such summer heat in air-conditioned offices say? I'm really asking because I'm curious because I've never met anyone who would say -- you know what, because I could really not give this country how much longer. Every euro they get is too slow and I don't know who's hoping to claim that the cadastral income in our country is so terriblely low that the state has to arrange and collect the surplus that our farmers create here. I think the state is collecting money where we should actually share it, because before that we had the Succession Act under consideration. Who's the most threatened? Single rural women with two fields and maybe a house. I cannot understand why it is difficult in our country to normalise and unify some data capture and at the same time all that follows; but this time my debate would go completely into other waters. Dear Secretary of State, I am sure that you are also aware at the Ministry of Finance that there have been some setbacks around 2010 when we moved from the manual to the electronic land book. For two years now, I have been warning the Minister of Justice that there are deleted forest plots in Slovenia, some 140 hectares of these plots. I wonder who the cadastral income will be, even on what basis, and who will take responsibility for it? I'm talking about forest plots, 172 owners are as far as I know them, and I'm sure this is a broader problem. How will the tax be collected from these 140 forest plots? He'll give it to who if it's not settled. Or here the state is going to say, "Ah, here I'm not going to edit these 140 acres, I'm going to leave it. And the state will not have a job like the Ministry of Justice, because it is too complicated for this to be resolved in one term; but what is left and is waiting. I want to know if the government intends to collect taxes, it has to do so. And make all the bases so that you can follow the tax collection. And the regulation of the land book is extremely important because the land book is the only official collection of documents that is the basis for a tax assessment to the individual owner. Because the tax is not applied to the parcel, but the tax is applied to the owner. Not on the plot, but the taxes are levied on the owner, the owner of the plot. And if some nonsense happened in the transfer from the manual land book to the electronics, I think it would be necessary after six years to sort it out first. That's why I'm asking you, what's going to happen to these parcels? The owners of these forest plots have already been, say, on the side of the acorn and now at the time of repairing the basements, simply cannot reach the sanitation phase, nor to the cleaning, nothing, nor to the sale of wood, because they have officially fallen off at this transfer. These are actually deleted parcels. I would like to know how you will measure this tax to these grey owners, if I may say so, or whether you will not measure it at all. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u150	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance mag spoke. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Let me answer the questions immediately. The agreed starting point within the working group, including the participation of the interested public or non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture, was that the basis was an economic account for agriculture, a statistical instrument, statistics. Various corrections have been agreed on. In the process of drafting a new cadastral income law, we have also considered the possibility of using FAD accounting, but we have deviated from this intention. There are several reasons; for the first time, FADN accounting is intended only for a very narrow pattern of commercial agricultural holdings. In Slovenia, if we have accurate data, around 3 000 people, while the economic account captures a wider population or a wider set of information and can therefore also negate individual solutions for specific types of agricultural production. In addition, I should like to draw your attention to the report of the European Court of Auditors on the effectiveness of the FADN system. It is published on the europa.eu website; this is the report of this year, the European Court of Auditors notes that the economic account system is uniform at European Union level and the main statistical source for monitoring farmers' incomes at macroeconomic level. For the FADN system, it is noted that it has significant limitations precisely because of the small sample on which the cases are handled. They note that the information on income collected on the basis of FADN accounting is incomplete to underestimate revenue and overestimate costs. We used the official data available in the Republic of Slovenia, these are the statistics from the economic account. And this starting point to use the economic account was, as it is said, agreed within the working group. As regards the regulation of the land book or the land cadastra, it would first of all point to the responsibility of the owners; however, non-owners, but also users, due to possible irregularities, can arrange matters for tax purposes. This problem, mentioned above, should not be an obstacle to finding the correct cadastral income, and it should also be attributed to the one who actually owns or owns a parcel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u152	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Let us first ask ourselves why we need a new Cadastrian Income Law at all. According to an old method based on data that is no longer collected and not up to date, the cadastral income can no longer be identified. We don't even collect this data anymore and they were wrong. That's part of why we need a new marriage. Part two, it was found that the present cadastral income was underestimated. The question was, who found out? The expert group identified this and also included representatives of the farmers' union, as well as the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. If the problem is that there wasn't a farmer in this group who has 6.6 hectares of land and is out in the heat right now, I don't know. Farmers are already complaining that they are being burdened by bureaucracy; would you like us to give them the methods described for determining cadastral income?Oh, my God! I don't think so. I think it is enough that their representatives or representatives of agricultural organisations have participated in this group, which has found that the cadastral income has so far been underestimated. These were the findings. At this point, I'd like to do a little round with the numbers. It was said in one of the previous discussions that we are talking about a 500% increase, a 300% increase. We're not talking numbers, we're talking percentages. What does it really mean for those slightly over 10%? Otherwise, they will increase by 3%; for more than 300%, we are saying that they will be raised from 40.9 euros to 263 euros if I am right in writing at the Committee on Finance. [[...]] So we are talking about the fact that larger farmers will find that they have income, not profit, income, EUR 263. That's what we're talking about. We are not talking about having 500 000 euros of cadastral income at once. We're talking nominally about numbers like that. As a percentage, that is to say, he was undervalued now — but that sounds more. But this will be resolved for those who are actually being increased by more than twice with the Income Act, which came into public debate today. Of course, we all want him on the table and in the legislative process. In view of what has already been written in this law, we can believe that the government will adhere to these commitments it has made in the negotiations. Now we have no reason not to believe it. It was also mentioned that the problem of prices falling is indeed not the most pink in agriculture, but that will be reflected in the cadastral income. That is why we have, in agreement with the stakeholders, this system to be evaluated every three years for five years. Why for five years, why not three years; that was the deal. Since it was necessary to make a decision, it was also said today; if you are a farmer, if you are taking over a farm, you must have one clear picture of what lies ahead. And if you want to make this system robust enough, you need to take a longer time. It could have been three years, but they agreed for five years and in those five years, or on that average, it will also reflect that prices are falling. I couldn't agree that this law would deter young people from taking over farms. In fact, I'd say it's the opposite, and this law will be an important bureaucratic burden for a farmer. Now maybe a lot of people have not decided on vegetables or strawberries; now they will say to themselves, "Now I don't have these problems here, as far as books are concerned, I don't have any more problems with accounts. This may be an option now that I from my father take over the farm, that now I will go to grow strawberries, because maybe I see it as a good deal. This is how we encourage them. It is not the problem that young people do not want to assume that the cadastral income will be real and fair; many other reasons are there. And even this cadastral income is not the reason for our self-sustainment to fall, but we have a certain structure of farms in Slovenia and, given the smallness, the solutions are to connect. But that's not the topic of this law right now. Why it's a transitional period, whether it's fair, whether it's some kind of like move because of the elections; that's what we keep listening to. But this new law is a change and any change in life in general brings with it some particular stress, takes a time to adjust to a new change, to get used to it, to adjust all your activities, as far as that is concerned. From this point of view, this is very welcome for the farmer. The first year will be no big difference, or the difference will be in its favor; then it will be gradually able to make decisions, get calculations, that's what we talked about earlier. Towards the end of the year, the Geodetic Institute will calculate this and see how much cadastral income and what awaits it. And this is what matters to farmers, what we always say – predictability. This methodology is robust, simple and predictable; it is therefore good. As for the amendment, we have one methodology throughout the law, we have statistics in the economic calculation in agriculture. Here, where we would like to make some adjustments or reduce this amount a little bit, we will hang ourselves on another methodology and prove with this methodology that the costs are higher. But we've heard a lot before, and I think the secretary has explained better than I would know that one reality, one reality, must be kept. The whole law applies such data, and this data shows – and the European Court of Auditors also insists – that the eligible costs are around 84-85%. Because we are aware of the importance of agriculture, because we also recognize the problems that agriculture currently has, the opposite was true and the line was drawn at 90. But it would best be 100%, to say that there is no profit at all, that they are costs themselves; but this is not the case; somewhere you have to draw a line. For all the other requirements that farmers had, they listened to, they made arguments on the table, the arguments were drinking water and they were taken into account. As a result, the marriage is better than it was in the beginning of the day for consideration. But in this case it is necessary to stop or be realistic. And that, in our view, is a good percentage, 90%; it is 5 more than the data show. And for that reason, we will not support this amendment, but we understand it and it is legitimate. But if you are in opposition, it is easier to support and propose; but you need to see what is real and what is drinking water and what is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u154	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, she's gone; colleagues, colleagues! Miro Cerar has repeatedly said there will be no new taxes. Then the Secretary of State says that the cadastral income has so far been assessed too low and an appropriate burden redistribution is needed. Read – farmers will be more directly taxed through cadastral income, through taxes; this has additional negative effects, and this is social justice. Or I will call it social injustice for a Slovenian farmer who is controversial or problematic mainly from one fact, because the cadastral income is an assessment, I say fiction, what they measure this year, what the farmer will do next year. And then they say to the coalition MPs: yes, there is some stability, what the farmer is waiting for, there is some predictability. Of course, predictability – an increase in cadastral income, which will still be liked in 2017; then it will be what it will be. But that government won't, that's certainly a fact. I will read again the introduction that the Ministry of Finance has written. What I am personally appalled about is that the minister of the Jews is silent. As with the tax registers, they hit the farmer; the Minister of Agriculture Židan, Vice-President of the Government, is silent. But he has no problem with the Ministry of Finance writing, quote: "Approximately a third of farm households will be taxed with cadastral income at the end of the transitional period, up to 50%; about half of farm households between 50 and 300%, and about a tenth of the cadastral income will increase by more than three times." But the minister of the Jews is quiet. In short, we all know what awaits the Slovenian farmer after this government is gone. In 2018, when the early elections are held, farmers will receive a calculation for 2017 and, given the transitional period, it is expected to be even a little better than it is now. But if the government had taken this law seriously, the members of the coalition would have adopted the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which proposed that what will apply for 2017 also apply for the following years. But the coalition only cares about the next, such or otherwise, elections; then let the next government deal with agriculture. Since people do not have any sense of who has accepted anything, we will probably have 10,000 farmers in the Republic Market in 2020 who will scream: down with the government, down with the government. It will be difficult for someone to recall a farmer and tell him that Mira Cerar's government was, through the SMC, SD, and Desus groups, the one who gave herself, as we call it, the pre-election candy; then strike the alarm for joy, or as I say, kill me gently. Not to mention the following, which is likely to destroy the Slovenian farmer after 2019 or after 2020, or at least the one who is not willing by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture who wishes to preserve only the largest farmers. There is much talk of property tax; however, I will not say much, President, that there will be no anger, but a cadastral income, a property tax, and then the coalition MPs say that the farmer is waiting for predictability. Yes, we have recently had an annual report on the status of agriculture for 2015 at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which is at least solid, if not catastrophic. Of course, we all forget that, fortunately, 2015 was as deplorable with bad weather events, which were much better expressed in 2014, even in 2016, and we are barely in the middle of the year. It is therefore right to listen to the amendment, which is written on the basis of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, so that this methodology changes somehow. Today it has been repeatedly said by the State Secretary and members of the coalition – we are solving matters systematically with specialities. We solve matters systematically with corrections or with specifics, whatever we say. This systemyness of yours is very lost and it very much reminds me of this case of the tax box – all united; but in time you changed little of the facts you said that for some it should be what the opposition shouted all the time. Here you have already given a little speciality for beekeepers, a little for foresters, a little for intensive, for extensive, for wine, for olives. By 2018, each one of us had argued a little that there would be no total devastation or what we had read in the agricultural report. We are raising cadastral income, which according to the Ministry has so far been assessed too low and we have a report on the state of agriculture in 2015. It is quite drastic to reduce the size of agricultural areas every year, prices are falling, self-sustainment is falling over the last five years, and we are giving the farmer higher cadastral income for the prize. I expected that today at least a thousand farmers would come and ask who, after a healthy farm, would come before the national assembly, if not before the government; and what a cry, why we are destroying the Slovenian farmer. But apparently farmers are satisfied because they were probably convinced that this candy for 2017 and 2018 is so good that they will already survive. Or it may be that agriculture, or various associations, manage the largest farms, is likely to be provided in one way or another. We will not support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we have already said one condition since the first hearing, which was almost crucial, that we should even consider possibly supporting this law, namely that the situation for 2017 remains as a state to come forward. So when you give the candy to give this candy even further, because everything else is pure political mathematics of the ruling coalition to last until 2018 without farmers on the streets, and then what will. However, if the next government deals with a new cadastral income, where the methodology may not last long despite these specialities, then you will probably be working in a very different composition. In short, you have moved the resolution of agricultural policy to the next government and this is very irresponsible. More than what has been said today, cadastral income has been assessed too low so far; on the other hand, we are talking about some gains in agriculture. And when farmers across the individual sectors say what a state of zero should be in order to be able to charge them this cadastral income or what could then be their basis for income or social transfers; no. Even if the price of milk is below the limit of bearable, "so what" – some politicians say. And that is why this 6th article, which speaks about the methodology for calculating cadastral income, where, as in some other articles, they are individual, as we have already said, specialities and corrections; what is possible for winemakers, what is available to olive farmers, what is made possible for foresters and so on. This family of yours on systemicity is subordinated to almost all agricultural stakeholders. And I wouldn't have troubled these particulars, but this government is allergic to every law, especially those by the opposition; if it's not systemic, we're going to have to deal with it systemically. But if you're going to the methodology, why didn't you start everything with the same cadastral income after that?Oh, my God! You have made corrections, which is by no means systematic, so I hope that from now on or from tomorrow, the government and members of the coalition will no longer talk about the systemicity of the legislation, because we will be considering the urgently needed law on intervention measures due to the cold in the last week of April, which is completely non-systematic. Don't worry, we will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group because he is needed; but if anyone ever reads any opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, it's torn to pieces about how non-systemic it is. I'm really asking you to stop talking about this systemicity slowly. On the proposal of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, we wanted to arrange what the members of the coalition said at the committee meeting, if there was anything else open, any other detail, and we will arrange it. And when the Agricultural Forestry Chamber wants to close another chapter, for a slight change in this assessment in the methodology of data and the difference between the value of production and costs between 90 % and 94%, the position is more than silent, but it is mainly against. One is the words of Mira Cerar that there will be no new taxes; the other is the actual practice of this government coalition, which gives new and new burdens, especially financial ones in this law, that we will not be dishonest. Certain bureaucratic barriers are decreasing, but especially financial effects will be around 2019, 2020, taking into account the property tax which destroys the farmer who is not the largest, and apparently not at the will of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture. And I must say that I am very afraid when we are listening to the report on the state of agriculture next year, when these trends are likely to go even further downstream with regard to the reduction of processing surfaces and low prices. I really want to know what the excuses of those Members will be when they consider that report, who is to blame for this situation in the field of agriculture. The answer will be very simple. One of the key arguments is the new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which, unfortunately, I cannot support in this form alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u157	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. A esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about this proposal for cadastral income, I am also, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, convinced that it is unfair and that it is hitting a small man and a Slovenian farmer in the countryside. I come from the countryside and with all due respect to those who live in the cities; we are at a time when we celebrated the 25th anniversary of Slovenian statehood. One week after that, the Prime Minister, the first man of our country, spoke about the Mafia state, whether we would let the Mafia state stay or become. Dear colleagues and colleagues and the Secretary of State, last time we heard about the mafia, the coalition was divided. Even today, I noticed that they had once again offered their allegiance to the future. But I stress when it comes to a small man, when it comes to a Slovenian farmer, you are united; but of course in a negative sense. I fully understand the Secretary of State bringing this to the National Assembly, of course wrapped in a cellophane, in such a cellophane that it is not visible. Dear Secretary of State, you speak very well, you speak very highly. Those who listen a little bit more to it think that this is a positive thing for the future. Here you have also been very well assisted by colleague Simon Zajc, who can also say well, but the fact is that this goes to a dead end for all those working on farms. At the last meeting of the largest coalition party, the Prime Minister also said that economic growth had increased and unemployment had decreased. Let me say this, because at this point we are talking about the Slovenian farmer, the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Židan, that, as of 1 July, over thousands of Slovenian citizens working in the forest have lost their jobs. If any of these are allowed to work in the future, it is possible to conclude a contract only by the end of the year. The Minister for Agriculture and Forestry of the Republic of Slovenia recently spoke in the State Council that all those who have problems with milk will have to organise themselves by working with the milk product. This Slovenian farmers somehow understand. However, let me also say, when we are making calls for a Slovenian farmer, yesterday I was talking about one case where a farmer is running for a minimum device to keep a calf that costs between €5 000 and €10 000, and finally he has to obtain a valid permit to file an application. And I think everyone in the hall knows what it means to get a usable license for a barn that is 20 or 25 years old. What do I mean by this bill? To make fun of a Slovenian farmer. Sometimes I even feel like we're making slaves out of them or we want to make a Slovenian farmer who feeds only sheep or cows and takes care of himself. But positive to this nickname shepherd and to the work they do. We must be aware that Slovenian farmer not only cares about himself, but cares about the whole family. And with this proposal of the Cadastrian Income Act, we are seriously prejudiced, I repeat – in the cellophane curve, in the Slovenian farmer. I think that this is unfair, unjustifiable and that all those experts who are at the Ministry of Finance, those who run this coalition that you are in this coalition, should seek solutions for the future in the Republic of Slovenia elsewhere. Maybe the ones the Prime Minister was talking about on Sunday. Therefore, the distinguished Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Coalition, once again, I place my heart on you on behalf of the Slovenian countryside, on behalf of Slovenian farmers, for the good of Slovenian landscape, so that we do not impose these burdens on Slovenian farmers. This is rude, this burden will come in a new mandate when the new government comes. I can't support such a marriage alone. But I invite everyone to consider the amendment on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I ask, does anyone else want to discuss Article 6 and the amendment? I can see that. Mr. Bell Lah, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have heard quite a bit here about the coordination of the ministry and representatives of farmers. How this is in line with them, although there has been a lot of failure for the last two months by the applicants, even though they were representatives of farmers, farmers' unions, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and so on in this group. In the meantime, there were elections to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. How many members went to the polls? Seven percent. Which members? Those under five hectares of land didn't go to the polls, they didn't go, I'll tell you they didn't. How many representatives are on the Management Board of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Small Farmers under 5 hectares? Not a single one! How many of these farmers are in the regional agricultural forestry chambers, boards? I don't know any of them. We talked about the fact that cadastral income is the most burdensome for those small farmers who, in addition to income from agriculture, have to have other incomes such as employment, whether they are one of the family members in the service or even two. And then the cadastral income and some subsidies, half of these subsidies. There are 70,000 of these farmers applying for subsidies. And what is the aim of these larger farmers who have too little agricultural land to increase their farms and compete with foreign farms? In Austria there is an average farm of 15 hectares, and in Austria there are 6.6 hectares. Get agricultural land, get the best agricultural land from small farmers, because it can't go anywhere else, because it can't go to Croatia without bringing the land. The goal of these larger farmers is to stop farming here and they take over some of those quality agricultural land that can be processed with large machines. What about those lands, the terraced fields, five, six meters wide or less when you can't turn the tractor. The tractor that cuts 9 meters, one front piece, two sides, has nothing to do with such fields; but between the borders, the coasts three, four meters. At times, we had an invitation to a hand basket and then gave some subsidies for each ar cut on our hands. We had the commission check it out, it looked good for a few years, and then the state said, "No, you can't do this anymore. And we've stopped it and it's rising again. Does anyone care?Oh, my God! On the other hand, we import 80% of organic food. Because production is gradually increasing or the number of organic farms, we have only come a few percent over the last few years, we are still importing. Why is it paid to produce organic food in Austria, but not in Austria?Oh, my God! They need to be stimulated. They really need to connect. Is it anyone's goal, farmers negotiating and coordinating with the government, that small farmers with land in the size of a hectare, two or three of them connect? Do they have the resources to do that? Do they have professional support? They've got paper on it. What's really going on in the field? That's why I suggested earlier, little farmers don't have their own representatives, they're all talking and they're talking in their name with a fig in their pocket. Why don't you ask them? But for larger farmers, there was a clear goal: one day, even the idea of how the state would give money to buy larger farmers from small agricultural land. The idea was from bigger farmers. It's the same thing as that bastard when he said: poor people, the more I despise you, the more you are. The more we burden small farmers, the more we scare them; the less they will be, not more. But there'll be more poor people and fewer farmers. Why are we importing 50% of dairy products and exporting raw milk as raw material, 30% of us are exporting? But we don't know how to produce, process, do we? That is why I am very skeptical of how these representatives of farmers who have coordinated with the government or have been on a committee that has prepared this are indeed representatives of all farmers. The results show that they didn't. Agricultural land is still growing, self-sustainment is falling. Ask the growers how they feel about this competition abroad. We have Simon here who knows well why self-sustainment is such. Pigs, let's ask the minister, he knows this situation well, no one better than him, not to say anything more. And we're in a situation like this. Part of the report also shows us. Of course, if he is represented by a minister and a government, he shows us certain information. As he said, "Don't show me the moon in the meadow, if I know it's in heaven." And so is your report. When we look at it year after year, we'll see what the results really are. Obviously, it is better for this country to import foreign food to collect some taxes, people to eat bad food, inadequacy; rather than allowing domestic farmers a cent of profits or any remainder of income, they would have a farmed land. You haven't convinced me by this law that it's systemic, that it solves this policy in the long run and gives some perspective to our average farmer. No, on the contrary, ask the farmers. We will not support this law; but we are lucky that when the effects of this law strike the farmers, you will no longer be here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u160	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. After her, Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much again for your word. In my previous performance, I did not mention the financial impact of the proposed amendment to Article 6, and allow me to correct this deficiency. If the proposed law is adopted, the assessment of cadastral income will be reduced by 16 million. If the total cadastral income today is estimated at 76 million at the existing complementary draft law, it would be 16 million lower at the time of adoption of this amendment. Then the cadastral income that is excluded from the income tax must be deducted, because it is less than EUR 200. We must not forget that one of the specificities of the tax treatment of agricultural activity is that the revenues achieved up to EUR 200 are not included in the tax base at all. And this captures, I take into account the final figures, after the cadastral income with a 100 % inclusion of cadastral income in the tax base, this would mean, for example, a farm with 6.5 hectares of forest or a farm with 2.5 hectares of agricultural land without a more detailed use. At the same time, this is the answer to the question why the smallest farmers are not burdened. Taking into account the proposal presented in the debate that only 40% of the inclusion of cadastral income in income should be maintained, or that cadastral income should be fixed at only 40% of the actual found cadastral income, the smallest will not be burdened. They will be burdened with the greatest that we are hearing today that this marriage is too favorable for them and too burdensome for small ones. And with one more piece of information, let me serve. Today, 74% of farm households are excluded from taxation because their cadastral income does not reach EUR 200. At the end of the transitional period, such farm households will be 72% or 255,000 317 farm households. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Nicely hailed colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! The State Secretary has just again explained the taxation of the cadastral income of small farmers. I think that for this very reason and for the reason that FADN is not suitable for taxing on cadastral income, I will not support this amendment. However, as regards some of the claims raised by colleagues that everything in agriculture is bad, it would point out from the recent report, which we considered on the Committee on Agriculture, that data were presented in this interim report that in agriculture there is higher exports, higher employment, from 77 000 to 81 000 employees, higher income by 8.2 %, higher self-sustainment, colleague Lah claims that there is a lower self-sustainment, higher self-sustainment in 2015 by 8 %, higher profitability by 4 %. I wouldn't say everything is so wrong in this industry. It is clear from the law that smaller farmers will be burdened; it is not an additional burden because the cadastral income of up to 200 euros will not be charged. As far as this law is concerned, I would point out that this is mainly a technical law, a law that will somehow regulate the method of determining cadastral income – I will stress this once again – by which, on the basis of the available data, the most understandable way will be to determine the most realistic income. By doing so, it is comparable to dealing with all natural persons, for we must not forget that farmers are in some way entrepreneurs, that farmers are also increasingly educated to be able to put on a scale – either a tax on cadastral income or bookkeeping. And that the determination of cadastral income is a flat-rate determination of income according to the income of an individual. The flat-rate determination of income, such as cadastral income, is also the choice of each individual, because on the one hand we see that cadastral income is simple, predictable, robust for farmers; but it is not necessarily fair, as it can be more beneficial for some, for others, given the other activity they are still doing. It's a matter of choice, given the way they grow. In doing so, let me point out that in 2015, in the Income Act, we have allowed farmers to decide for themselves when and if they will enter the bookkeeping management of the farm, so that is still a choice. I still don't see this marriage as a new tax. It's not a new tax. Catastrophe income has been underestimated in the past, so we can come up with different calculations or some other tax bases. The Act, which was adopted in 2011 and then frozen in 2013, speaks of a lack of agreement in the past with regard to the adoption of this Act. And this is a system law, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance has been talking to all the interested public, working together and together they have come up with a method of determining cadastral income. And we can't say that this marriage just came about. I think it is necessary to listen to the public concerned and responsible in both ministries try to find appropriate legal solutions. But as for the fact that there have been a lot of coordination, I think it is right, because we have also seen what is happening on the ground. It is true that individual corrections have been made, of the 19 proposals that have been made, 18 have been adopted, which means that ministries have gone to the farmers. With regard to the representation of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and small farmers, this is a debate I do not know about; and with regard to the representativeness of individual chambers, I think there is also a completely different debate, which could also be discussed at a different level in terms of representativeness. [[…]] Neither can the ministry go to the field and the farmers and ask them to give their opinion; for this there are individual associations to organise themselves and that through their associations no one is saying that the KGZS was the only interested public. [[…]] They were family winemakers, all individuals who joined in any association made their comments. A transitional period, if no transitional period had been given, would have been apparent that farmers need a transitional period to adapt. Now that we've given it to you, you'll see that this will be postponed to another period. You too could have taken another step in this law in 2011 or 2013, and you froze it because it was not right. It is said that these changes were necessary. That's why I think this law is really good, systematic, to help small farmers. As stated by the Secretary of State, 74% of those who do not pay are not taxed on the basis of cadastral income are exempt. I think that this law needs to be supported and enforced as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u164	Gradually, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you again for your word, Mr Vice President of the National Assembly. To make it easier for me to understand the opposition, I have a feeling that we are at the same time as all financial experts in this Chamber. But somewhere in the media today, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is thinking about his resignation because he cheated with data on one segment. So you will understand that we strongly doubt this bill and are concerned about the Slovenian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u166	I did not quite understand, Mr Podkoršek, what your procedural proposal was. But I suggest we get back to work. If you don't mind, I'd like to give the floor to Mrs. Ivy Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dear President, just for a moment; I do not like to argue with my colleagues; perhaps the Secretary of State will answer me. I really do not know in which area a new calculation of cadastral income will help small farmers. That's what my colleague said, and I'd like to know what area she's going to help small farmers in, because I didn't track it down. Let me get back to the last debate. Madam Secretary of State, you said that tax rates would also be for those owners who do not have a regulated land book ownership. And I want to know on what legal basis the tax will be paid to the owner who is registered in the cadastral, but not in the land book because of the transfer from manual to electronic form. And you said that every owner should have his status. Of course, they were regulating themselves and they wanted to settle their status, including with a lawsuit, but it was legally rejected, which can also be confirmed by your colleague Minister Klemenčič. Every owner. There are lawsuits that have been rejected. And I would just like to know once again if, for tax purposes, there is enough of a separate sheet to measure the tax, but I suggest that this own sheet is sufficient for legal purposes as well; which means that inheritance, sale, substitution and so on can be done on the basis of that own list. But it's not like that. We have dispossessed owners who can't manage land ownership through any institute in this country, because I say once again, we have them in the cadastral, but there is no transfer to electronic. And even through judgment, they can't get to this property. The State shall be responsible for the establishment of records. In this task and in this case the transfer of the land book from physical form to electronic form is the responsibility of the State that it was not fully created because it was a contracting entity and paid this task; but the responsibility for why this occurred is not borne by anyone. And I think it's time for these things to work out. After six years, it is high time that owners simply do not have the right, the poor forester does not give them the cut, cannot perform the sanitizers, some guardians are being placed. Will you then pay the tax bill to the guardians, or to whom will you put it?Oh, my God! Things aren't that simple when you say, for tax purposes, we're going to expose the one who's there. Yeah, well, then he's got to have a right to traffic with these properties. The country has literally failed to implement the land book project, so far no one has said so, but this is the first case that appears. If you don't believe me, ask yourself that this is a very pressing problem, that there have been several round tables on this topic and there is no solution. I think before it goes into projects like this, records have to be arranged. It is the responsibility of the State to give the same treatment to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the secretary of state. Matthew Vranick Erman. For her, Mr Janko Weber and Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you very much. One more time. What is the advantage of the bill for small farmers? For those engaged in the production of specific crops, this production is considered to be a basic agricultural activity, not a complementary activity. There is no need to keep books and there is no need for a specific identification of income from this activity. But this will be counted within the framework of cadastral income. The first stage of production; to a lesser extent, income will be counted as part of the cadastral income and will not be further identified. These are only two advantages that can be realised under the new Cadastrian Income Identification Act. Of course, in this, as well as today's debate on this issue, I link the solutions of the Cadastrian Income Law and the Income Act. And once again, as regards the debtor or person to whom the cadastral income is attributed in his/her income decision. We are talking again about solutions that are not included in the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, but in the Income Act. And the Income Act provides that a taxable person to whom this income is credited shall be determined by a taxable person who, as owner, is defined in the Land Catastrophe, not the Land Book, in the Land Catastrophe; or by a user or person who is notified as a person who uses a particular land to carry out an agricultural or forestry activity. For the income tax, it is not who is the legal owner, but who is the beneficiary of the income or who is the economic beneficiary of the exploitation of a particular land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Certainly one of the most demanding laws is the Cadastrian Income Act. We've been dealing with him for years. The one currently in force is such that it can enormously burden Slovenian agriculture if a new law is not adopted. The purpose of the adoption of the new law is already to eliminate the current one, obviously not sufficiently coordinated and well prepared, to take into account the basic principle that led to the methodology for calculating cadastral income; that is, the cadastral income is calculated as the difference between the market value of possible production and the costs arising therefrom. The whole game is about this, so it is also to understand the amendment that we have under consideration by the opposition to propose 94% of the costs instead of 90% of the costs of market income for agricultural land. It's an expected reaction. But the fact is that it is extremely important for such a major change – and we can really talk here about a systemic approach, a system law – to take the proposal into account also with negotiators who were few. Not only the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, but if we look at the list of all the associations and societies contacted by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, there are 22 of them. This dialogue was then extremely extensive by the Ministry and also by NGOs. As a result, this relationship between possible revenues and costs is significantly more favourable for the farmer than in the constitutional text of the law. The process of coordination and negotiation obviously went in the direction of mutual listening and also of taking into account all the real warnings and calculations that came from practice, from the ground, from farmers and also from individual associations or societies. During this transitional period, it will be demonstrated whether, perhaps, individual taxpayers have not experienced such and different reasons for an enormous increase in the tax base. Here I also associate myself with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in its opinion says that the issue of the height of cadastral income is a substantive issue. However, if the tax base rises dramatically in a very short period of time, this may also become a legal issue. That is why I think it was very important that an agreement has been reached to take account of this transitional period and that no additional burden on the debtors is foreseen during this transitional period; on the contrary, in a given year, we can even see that these obligations will be slightly lower. And I think that the value of these calculations and data that will come in this transitional period is extremely important for the final application of this law in full content or in full percentages, as is envisaged to take account of the calculation of the cadastral income in a given year. And that is why I think it is right that we are trying to take this step or that we are going to take this step and that even through the specific calculations that will come to all those who are committed, we are going to get a very thorough overview of what is going to happen. In doing so, it is not important to take into account, for economic purposes, also the revenues and costs that have been created or detected over the past five years. So it will not be a question of guessing what will happen in the years to come, but it will be based on known data, which is extremely important. Maybe just to compare it to a bank hole, where we went to bank recovery based on assessments of what's going to happen in the future, so some estimates that no one knew exactly what they would be like in the real world, we're dealing with data that have already been generated in the past and are the basis for calculation. In my opinion, the conditions are given for us to get to the real picture and at some point also to have real taxes on the income generated on agricultural and forestry land owned by owners or users in use. And I think that there should be such a principle that trying to design, even in this case, a tax solution in the way that it is as verifiable as possible is certainly good. I think that in the coming years we will also be able to discuss very realistically and see what will actually happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you're the last interviewer reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For the last time, I am announcing the amendment that we have proposed and summarised on the basis of the proposal of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. We base our amendment on accounting data according to the FADN methodology. I do not have much time now to explain what this FADN is, but it is the accounting data for the observed period of five years – whether this is a long-standing period, according to my assessment – and in this observed period these data show that the difference between the value of production and the cost for the last five years is 94 %; and not 90 %, as stated in Article 6, paragraph 6. Of course, I cannot argue with the Secretary of State whether this 16 million is the fallout of the cadastral income, if I understand correctly, correct calculation or not. Let's just say that I trust; although I have to say that it surprises me on the basis of this and on the conclusion that the total cadastral income is, I don't know, only 76 million euros for what year. Listen to us, and those who don't do agriculture don't know what FADN is. This is a network of accounting data for agricultural holdings or, more simply, it is an agricultural activity of adjusted accounting. Therefore, this methodology is FADN. But now the government says that this is irrelevant, it doesn't matter, throw in a basket of this accounting data – not exactly, but I can understand it that way – because the European Court of Auditors had comments and this methodology was problematic. But FADN data are used to analyse financial incentives and to plan agricultural policy at national and European Union level. Next, accounting data on the income and business of agricultural holdings in all countries of the European Union are collected according to the FADNE methodology. Suddenly, this methodology is not good. Yes, we must follow the recommendations of the European Court of Auditors, okay. We're totally confused about this, total confusion. Like what we call a greater fiscal effort, Minister Marble says: wait a minute, it's not true, the methodology is wrong. But that's another story now. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is extremely complex, of course I agree, someone said earlier that they should also have the Income Act on the table. Yes, today it is published, we do not know how the so-called cap will work, which will be defined in the Income Act. Colleagues and colleagues, what does Brexit mean for Slovenian agriculture and for cadastral income? What does Brexit mean? That's what I meant to ask the President of the Government on Thursday morning at a joint meeting when we consider the European Council; he won't. And there will be no foreign minister; I don't know who to ask. I know, for so long, we have been sitting at the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs and other committees, that Brexit means less agricultural subsidies, which will be a great and terrible scourge for Slovenian farmers. Brexit means less agricultural subsidies. I'm sure these farmers aren't even aware of it today, but I think that's going to hit hard. The problem is very complex. There are more questions than the answers to this moment. Therefore, with this amendment proposed by us and the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would go a little towards the Slovenian farmer. I think, as colleague Weber said, according to the bank hole, it's half a drop into the sea, not a whole; it's only half a drop into the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. As far as FADN accounting is concerned, let me repeat this, we have also overplayed this option, but we have decided, on the basis of the warnings of the Ministry of Agriculture and NGOs, that the coverage of data in FADN accounting or FADN statistics is too small. We therefore jointly decided to use the statistical economic account for agriculture. And if we decide on one methodology, we have to use it consistently and then within this methodology we agree on the derogations agreed upon in this coordination process. Not to mix one methodology on the revenue side, but at standard costs another methodology; this is a key problem. The additional argument on the FADN deficiency methodology is only an additional but not a basic argument. And as for Brexit, we will be able to talk about the effects when we know how the exit will actually occur. And if we are already dealing with agricultural subsidies, once again, subsidies are not subject to the Cadastrian Income Law, but are subject to other legislation, in this particular case the most important Takon on income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, since I no longer have the said debaters, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss Article 6 and the amendment? Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you very much. When the government of Mira Cerar comes to the public or to the National Assembly with the first sentence, it is that they will introduce systemic legislation; then it is an alarm that we who are from the countryside and smaller craftsmen in this country will immediately be regarded as wallets. This is the modus operandi of this government, and I have seen this for more than two years. Today we had quite a few flossules: there will be a transitional period, we have all taken into account, except for farms with less than €200 of cadastral income. Such a law can be written by someone who does not even know the relief of Slovenia. I would recommend that you get up on a helicopter, go 2,000 500 or 3,000 meters and see what Slovenia looks like. This is not the Netherlands, this is not Spain, this is not France; this is Slovenia. More than 80% of the land spoken today by colleague Lach has limited agricultural factors. These are farmers that communism has destroyed, which it has brought to the hills, which have two, three hectares of land, which has two pigs, which have four apples, goes to work in the morning, and controls at home to keep at least the cultural landscape in balance. This is Slovenian agriculture in 70% of cases. However, modern Slovenia has brought so-called turbo or capitalist farmers, who have enabled them to purchase, as they have owned, the agricultural land that was formerly state-owned; or they have cheap rents. These are a thousand-acre farms and so on. This is Slovenian agriculture. What's our job? What will happen in this two-year moratorium, my esteemed colleagues? Will the structure of these smaller family farms change, respected secretary of state? Or we're just hitting a stick on farmers. We need closed economic sustainable farms. This must be our vision. We have to fix what we've been destroying for 45 years. This is the first part of your homework. We need farms of 10, 20, 30 hectares, a middle farmer who can survive, or two families can survive on this farm. I come from Slovenian Gorica, except three, four, five large farmers all live on these farms. And today you're talking about cadastral income. Yes, Your Honor, of course, I agree with him in five years' time; but first of all, do we have any subsidies to help farmers buy land so they can round up the farm to make it worthwhile?Oh, my God! We don't have that. We have no vision of Slovenian agriculture. We come with some laws to destroy everything that has survived for at least a little while in the first place. This marriage is impossible to support, dear colleagues, and we will not support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Žnidar, you don't have any more time at your disposal. Since they are amendments, there will be no time-sharing. I ask, does anyone who has time at their disposal want to discuss Article 6? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. However, we continue with the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Who wants to discuss this agenda item and the amendment? Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment is interesting. At the previous point, we listened to the testimony of the Slovenian Democratic Party Member, why this government did not give a balance sheet. Why we went to some groups against why we listened to and followed the proposals of forest owners, beekeepers. Yes, it is true, we listened to them, we went to them, because for the Party of the Modern Center there are important forests, it is important water and they are important bees. We know how little time we can live without water, without bees a little longer; but we will also be gone; therefore we have gone our way. But what amendment are you now giving us that you've been telling us that we didn't put it in the balance sheet, but that we listened and walked by?Oh, my God! Instead of 80%, you are proposing 94% of the recognised costs, because it is okay for you if you go the other way; only we can't, or how. We have to beat people so you can hit us. I don't understand now what was your point of view before; even if we don't want to put it in the balance sheets, it doesn't mean that the law isn't systemic. We talked to beekeepers. The calculations show that in reality the cost is 60%, we went across the street, we went to 80%, and they agree. Or would we agree on a number of recognised costs — perhaps. If you told me, what if we gave you 97%, or they would say no, we don't accept that. Of course, everyone accepts more, but they agreed with 80% because it is a real percentage of the costs. We will not support this amendment; however, I apologize if we have gone before and taken away some weight from you with which we could continue to be pushed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss article 11? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u181	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the proposal of the Group of Members of 16. 4. 2015 to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. Before voting, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. Is there any explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Since the National Assembly has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution, we are moving on to a debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission on it. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendments tabled to the position of the Constitutional Commission, which are not published by e-clubs. The amendments of the New Slovenia Group to points 1, 2 and 3 of the Constitutional Commission's position are substantively linked. We will therefore discuss them together and vote on each amendment individually. I therefore put to the debate the 1st, 2nd and 3rd points of view of the Constitutional Commission, as well as the amendments of the Polish Group of New Slovenia to these points and amendments of the United Left Member State to 2nd and 3rd. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said earlier in my position this morning, it is necessary to achieve the objective that we have set ourselves in some way when we have begun to open this procedure to change the Constitution that a small correction in the text, as currently proposed, is necessary with regard to the position. That is why we have made two more amendments to the United Left, points 2 and 3. If I can get a quick summary of them. To point 2 we end by adding a text which reads or adds the text that particular care should be taken to establish a clear legal regime at the level of legal regulation which will, in accordance with the provisions of the new 70a, prevent future award of concessions for the provision of drinking water to the population. This is probably one of the main points to be highlighted in the position itself. This is if we are to achieve what this procedure has even begun to achieve, that these concessions should in fact be adequately prevented and limited to their extension. This addition, which we are overcoming, in some way sets out more clearly the referral that future legislation on the basis of the constitutional law to be adopted, must ensure that future concessions in the field of drinking water supply are prevented. If it is not clear at the time of the adoption of the constitutional law that the amendment of the Constitution prevents concessions in the field of drinking water supply, the question is clearly raised whether the exercise of the right to drinking water in practice can then be fully implemented as a matter of priority and sustainability. We are of the view that it is necessary to make it clear that in examining all the important aspects that need to be taken into account in relation to the right to drinking water or its implementation at the level of constitutional and, consequently, also legal regulation, and to give particular attention to legal arrangements that prevent the granting of concessions for the provision of drinking water to the population. Today we have repeatedly listened to how good the laws are already, how the concession is actually something that is acceptable on the one hand. However, it must be added here that the concession actually means privatisation, and in this case, as far as drinking water is concerned, it is clear that this must not happen. When we talk about the provision of drinking water for residents and residents, we need to pay particular attention or care. However, I would like to point out that this does not affect the field of economic use in any way, but it is quite clear that concessions can not be granted to private or other legal persons who could make profits on the basis of this. As far as the amendment is concerned, we are also adding a new text, and I will not read it in full, because it is a little longer, but this supplement suggests that in the implementing part of the Constitutional Law, the legislator commits himself to resolving the issue of concessions already granted. In short, once the constitutional law has entered into force and is also implemented, there will remain an open issue of already awarded drinking water concessions, so this must be regulated in a way that will be provided directly through natural water resources for the provision of drinking water to the population.I apologize, non-profit public services provide priority and sustainable services, which is the purpose of the constitutional law. [[…]] In view of the fact that certain concessions for drinking water supply have already been granted, it is essential to ensure in this part that appropriate legislative changes are made and that the transition to a non-concession system is determined. For this reason, we propose that this issue also be addressed in an appropriate manner when drafting a proposal for a constitutional law. In addition to this addition, we propose that the implementing part also regulate the obligation of the legislator himself to ensure that drinking water is supplied, to also address the issue of already awarded concessions for the production of beverages, in such a way as to ensure, for a transitional period, that households are provided with priority and sustainability. In both cases, what is most crucial, and what makes it a priority to serve, the supply of drinking water to the population, everything else must be in a different way. Given the duration of concessions already granted and the possibility of extension without actually a public invitation to tender, this issue must certainly be resolved. Here I would like to point out that the profession warns that groundwater levels are in some way constantly falling, this also comes from the Ars data itself, which warns of the quantitative conditions of water bodies and also their decline, and also the fact that, in fact, the state of groundwater is so because it is actually supplied to 97% of the population. So in some ways, we are talking about that if there are some shortages, there is also a need to make a clear position here and to make a commitment to the future, that these resources will have to be used primarily to provide drinking water to residents and citizens, and thus give priority to the fact that this right to drinking water is actually being exercised in the way that it was supposed to be for residents and residents, citizens and citizens to whom this right is intended in the first place. That's kind of the essence of these two amendments. In our view, they are crucial to the fact that, even in the future, we are going to refer to this law, as well as as as some kind of message, what we actually want with this constitutional law, to write it a little bit more clearly. In short, in the first case, point 2 to clearly say no to concessions, point 3 to properly prepare for how concessions already granted will be dealt with and how we will deal with concessions granted to the beverage industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u183	So more of you have tried to apply, so please apply. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u184	Hello! The amendment tabled by our Group of Members, I think it cleanses and clears the text. In this basic variant, which the coalition has invested, the dictatorship is safe drinking water. The question is, what is the safe drinking water? The water's drinking or it's not drinking. There's no other way. I don't see what safe drinking water could be. For this reason, in our amendment, we propose that an article in the constitution of the office should be written as saying that everyone has the right to drinking water and that natural water resources are naturally good in the governance of the country. The essence of our amendment is to delete the word "safe" because we think that in this constellation the words are completely unnecessary and that the writing "drink water" is completely sufficient. They know what drinking water is like, and I don't know safe drinking water. I know drinking, there are certain criteria where it is clearly determined in which cases the water is potable and in which it is not. I think this is a very healthy criterion, and I think that, dear coalition, it would be worth supporting, because I see that you are already very stressed and restless, and I will conclude here and I will not discuss it any further.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u185	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. First of all, do I ask on behalf of the Group of Members or as a proponent? On behalf of the House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u186	I am probably discussing it as a Member on behalf of the Group of Members. I would like to point out that the Constitutional Commission has adopted a number of things that the expert commission then opposed at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission. One of these is the word "safe." I fully agree and join my colleague Tonin that I hope and wish that drinking water will always and only be safe in Slovenia. And with such a record as we have on the table today, we can enter and introduce little confusion into our country, and people will not know if safe, dangerous, less safe drinking water flows through the taps to them. The procedure, President, you've taken it as you've taken it, it'll probably still be possible for the expert committee to remind us once again of things that don't judge to be enshrined in the constitution. Both ourselves and all four of us are convinced that it would be right for the word "safe" to withdraw or delete from this point. That is why we will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u187	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u188	Havela beautiful. Of course, in New Slovenia we say everyone has the right to drinking water. It's a matter of the normality of a country, and we've had this country for 25 years. Well, if we're going to put this matter first in Europe, there's nothing wrong. However, we suggest that we pay attention to the text, what will we write in the Constitution — or will we put in the Constitution the Water Act, the Drinking Water Regulation, the Drinking Water Regulation? Probably not. See Article 2 of the Constitution, in my opinion, is the strongest, but the question is whether we stick to it if this country adheres to it. We have countries that have the right to drinking water enshrined in the Constitution. These are, say, South Africa, Uruguay. However, it is those countries which have this in the state's highest legal act that do not provide citizens with drinking water. And we say that it would be enough to write down the text, as proposed in the amendment, "everyone has the right to drinking water" and that the new 70th article would go in a direction that would say that natural water resources are naturally good in the governance of the country. And a dot. I think that's quite enough. Colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it'll be enough for the National Assembly to knock on the chest, what success we've made in writing the right to drinking water in the Constitution. This right must be realized. I think here at least the right block of the opposition can boast of some projects during its reign. Let's say a pomor waterworks. We started it in 2012, but when this case is established in the constitution, I will come knocking on the door of Minister Marble and ask him, "Minister, where is the money, so that the second phase of the waterworks will be completed?" We started it because the Gorički villages in Prekmur had no drinking water and no drinking water. And they still don't have it. Here I must thank the present Mr Leon Behin, who has done a great deal in this project, but, of course, if marble does not give him money and Minister Irena Majcen, then these provisions in the constitution will not be able to be realized. That's how we understand her. I'm sorry. This is a major commitment for the country and the state will have to ensure the construction of infrastructure, i.e. the right to drinking water. Yeah, it's true, there's no "safe drinking water" in the Drinking Water Regulation. I went to read it, it had 36 articles plus transitional provisions, etc. Look, drinking water, but the parameters that drinking water needs to match are precise monitoring. But this, for God's sake, does not belong to the Constitution. Drinking water is drinking water and it is normal for every normal country to guarantee its citizens the right to drinking water, otherwise it is not a country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u189	The representative of the proposed magi shall have the floor. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much again, President. The fact is that we made the proposal made last April clear and stated what the aim is to protect water in the constitution. The Expert Commission, of course, has drawn up, with arguments, amendments to the article we have tabled. I can say as a proposaler that I fully support the changes made by the expert committee. However, I think it is a good thing because I do not know if all colleagues in the National Assembly know that today there is no record drawn up by the expert committee, but this record has been amended at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission. Despite the fact that the expert committee has expressed quite a few concerns. But anyway, of course, this is the right of Members and Members. The amendments of New Slovenia in some way reverse the proposal if I say a little domestically, in the form of an expert commission, so we will support all their amendments. As for the amendment of the United Left, of course, we would like to hear the expert opinion of the Commission, which we have called, before we vote on it. But because of the procedure he is, or he has been seduced as he has been seduced, we do not have this option, so this time we will abstain in the vote on the amendments of the United Left, and I hope that we will all follow the opinion of the experts together. I think that the Constitution is such an important document that we must follow legal experts, constitutional experts and ultimately the experts that we have proposed to this expert committee, even so that we do not really cause more confusion in the end than the benefits. I ask once again for consideration that the constitution should contain and clearly define what is actually our objective, and let us regulate everything else in laws, in sub-legislative materials.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u191	Since I've seen there's still an interest in the debate, I'm reopening the possibility of you applying. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members and Members! We often think in the National Assembly about two basic principles, literacy and a healthy perception of the law and the fact that we have to write things down in our legal order so that they are clear. I'm afraid, and also in response, perhaps partly to the representative of the proposer. The expert committee also had some other concerns, so at least one member, a visible member of the expert commission, spoke about what the Slovenian Democratic Party has also said this morning that this record is not needed in the constitution at all. I think there have been enough arguments to convince us that we have received quite a good number of votes in support of this proposal to open the constitution to start the constitutional audit process. Before continuing on the reasons for this delivery, it is true that, even by the expert commission, the question of whether we need it in the constitutional text has been raised, because this text must be short and we are more or less far away. In short, on this issue we will most likely not succeed in achieving the short or short provision proposed by the proponents to achieve all those objectives that we intend to achieve by amending the Constitution. There will certainly be a further debate, because today we are talking only about the positions to be taken by the expert commission and, of course, the Constitutional Commission and, at the end, the National Assembly at the plenary session, so let me tell all those and, in particular, the public: the Commission of the European Union advises Member States to organise their own drinking water supply by providing safe clean drinking water and so that all residents have access to it. Hence, it is not a matter of some hidden purpose that someone wants to achieve something. Even on the part of the Modern Centre Party itself, as you know, although we have at the beginning of the obvious that we do not have the program, we have the right to drinking water in our programme. That is also why our absolute support has been provided since the beginning of this proposal, but in a way that prevents unnecessary damage or that we do not open up a new issue, so perhaps for reasons. As it is said, it did not grow on our diaphragm if it was undertone to feel that we were delivering because we were interfering with the profession of constitutional experts. But, as it is said, to begin with, this is a proposal from the Commission of the European Union, a recommendation on how Member States should deal with the supply of drinking water to the population. On the other hand, we have followed, as you know, civil initiatives and professional public. So it's not a political decision. In its work it is based on political reasons, including recommendations, and in most cases it is professionally justified not only from the point of view of the constitutional profession, but, of course, mainly from the point of view of the water profession. The fact that we do not have this question settled in existing acts in this way, I leave it, I will not make any assessment on this site whether it is good or bad, or whether this is an argument against writing something, which I will try to justify a little later. We certainly know that in any way we will intervene in the Constitution and with any text we will write down the right to drinking water in the Constitution, in any case, we will have to adapt our legislation and, more importantly, also practice in this area. Therefore, we must first ask ourselves why we came alone to the Modern Centre Party or why the applicants came up with this idea, why in the previous reference the applicants proposed recording the right to drinking water in the Constitution. One of the most important movements and reasons that guides us in our work: fear. Because of the fear caused by the decision to open the door wide the possibility of water resources privatizing. There are wars of water in the world, and today we have come to realize that we can be content and, even more so, happy to live in a rich country with drinking water. As with most rights, so is this. They weren't given to us. Most of them were equipped, and about the very origin of water today would not, you will be able to create an image of yourself, whether we can treat water as goods or not, or whether we can treat it as market goods, or whether we have to do everything as a community to ensure that all the inhabitants, I stress, to all the inhabitants, I have not told citizens and citizens, nor have I told them to be politically like them, to tell all taxpayers, to provide them with drinking water. More. In our proposal and in our efforts, we have made every effort to ensure that this does not come to mind in the same way as the country, and that every time the authorities, as has been pointed out today, should be more pragmatic in addressing the current problems. If we commit everything and everyone, individuals, their organisations and also the country, and in our case also the self-governing local communities, that the question of water is no joke, it is a basic human need, we are composed mostly of water, therefore for our existence, for the existence of all the inhabitants cannot be a matter of making profits, it cannot be market goods. It is simply something that we must approach with extreme seriousness. For this reason, the fathers of our constitution did not foresee and write into the Constitution why we are dealing with this at the present time, I leave it to each of us to think about it, to create its own judgment, and to make a decision in the next constitutional change process, as set out in the Constitution. Let him decide. And today is a great holiday, I am pleased to celebrate the 25th anniversary of our independent country, and almost every day we have succeeded in the second anniversary of the last national elections to discuss these issues. Today, we are faced with a basic dilemma, and this is how we will act as representatives of the people in accordance with the Constitution and come up with a text that will prevent anyone from thinking in any way about supplying the population and households with drinking water as marketable goods or making profits on this basis. All of us will also consider how the use of drinks, water in bottles, could spread during our youth. Why? If we have better water running on our taps than was said several times today. But this in itself is not reasonable. I'm glad, Mr. Tonin, that every drinking water you come to is drunk for you and consume it. But I am interested in myself, for my health and for the health of all citizens and citizens, that this drinking water by nature must be potable, otherwise not potable, but that it is safe. In order to be safe, but something has to be done, we need to do something as a community to protect water resources first. Water resources are not by themselves deliberately already drinking water. As you may find, if you follow the professions, the floods cause us more problems in supplying drinking water to the population than in the drought. It is also true that we are mild, yet the quantity of water resources we have to provide for the population is declining because we are in a time of change. These changes can be even more dramatic and something will have to be done. And with the delivery of safe drinking water, I want to prevent what I had to do in Pakistan. I drank drinking water, which I either cooked and drank in green tea, or I had to filter out the water that was in the glacier myself. I had to do something. And we have to do something as a community. And it is true that we have experts, because we also have state authorities that are competent to ensure that they also exercise control. You will not believe this, but as in any field of health or as we have discussed for the last time also the use of chemical resources in agriculture and so on, there is a possibility that we will also, on the basis of research, decide on what levels we are talking about as safe. I don't want to scare and I don't believe that we have the situation that standards are so reduced that we are actually already on the border, whether this water is still potable or not, and that, of course, we have different situations here in different regions of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that something must be done and therefore we believe that by delivering "safe drinking water" we are committed to everything that we have to carry out each of our tasks, everyone in our field, the powers of the state authorities, experts, professional work to ensure that this water is potable and that it is a basic and constitutional guide for laws and regulations, that we must follow this objective without thinking about what else we can afford and what will cost us too much and so on, as we have many different, small and fiscal interests. So much for that concept. As a result, it is very important for us to deliver sustainable and priority water resources to support the population and households. The firmly established positions and definitions of the first phase, which were aimed only at preventing what we were afraid of, what could happen if water became marketable goods, is, of course, another thing that we must consider as our reality because we have sufficient water resources. We use water resources not only for the supply of populations and households, but also for economic exploitation, including in the beverage industry. This is our reality and we draw from the same sources, because, after all, it would be uneconomical to prevent the use of water resources for economic purposes, that is, free economic initiative, if we have enough water, that water would leak out, drain out and, of course, it could be handled in the same way by others. That is why we had certain dilemmas, questions, or following the Slovak principle, which in fact required that water remain in Slovakia. Most likely there is no need for this, but there is an urgent commitment, again for the same reason, that the one who will rule, who will manage, who will provide the services, is obliged that if we use the same water resources for supply and for economic purposes, we use them for economic purposes as market goods so much as not to endanger the supply of safe drinking water to the population. I'm talking about reality, I'm talking about different thoughts that can come to mind, I'm talking about the difference between public benefit and public interest. And I'm not going to kill you with details about that. That is why, of course, as far as water is concerned, we have also insisted on the position that natural water resources are for the public good of nature and that this must be in the management of the country for the reasons that I have mentioned in the meantime. It is more than enough reasons that, therefore, because of the reality in which we live and because of the reality in which we live, and because of the wide variety of different possible understandings, we have wanted to reach such a text, which will therefore follow the basic and basic objective which we believe to be described in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission of the European Union by the fact that it is natural water, that it is safe drinking water and that we commit ourselves to this objective to provide safe drinking water for all residents and residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u193	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. We have the right to safe drinking water in the draft constitutional law. In the light of the amendments, both the United Left and New Slovenia, I would like to further justify the need for the right to safe drinking water to be enshrined in the Constitution. This means that you have clean drinking water, that you have an adequate quantity, and that you have an adequate hydraulic calculation that is needed to bring water to the household, to the residents, or to the industry as a consumer. All these three circuits mean we're talking about safe drinking water. This also provides an answer to the issue of the award of concessions. If we also continue to go into some process of awarding concessions, it is in practice proven that multinationals actually save in the maintenance of the water system. A poorly maintained water system does not allow safe drinking water. If we have a written term "safe drinking water", it means that if even a concessionaire would be able to obtain this option, it is also bound to maintain the water system regularly and qualitatively. So far it hasn't been that way. This concept is coordinated in this way, I will say, with the support of the amendments of the United Left, but when I speak of the amendment of New Slovenia, the text returns that the right to drinking water is guaranteed, and the word “safe” is actually omitted. In order to have not only clean hygiene water, but also an adequate water system, it is more appropriate for this to remain in the draft constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u195	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! This debate seems very poetic to me in cities, not even pathetic. But it seems to me that water is a serious matter for us to talk about in this way. I'll try to be relatively brief, even though I've got quite a bit of time. First thing. Duration or shortness of records in the constitution. You know, after all, if we were a little more mature, we could have a very short constitution, a preamble, Article 1, Article 2, and only 3. An article that would say "we all guarantee equal opportunities." But we're not that mature, we're not living alone on some island in the middle of space. This is also why our amendments on concessions and questions are needed, my colleague Vatovec talked about it, the gentleman who spoke before me talked about it, security and potency. As my colleague Matthew said, we discussed earlier when it started here, there's nothing wrong with having a stronger guard or a double guard in the constitution. On a healthy level, you know, I drank drinking water, and I faked diarrhea. Pika. This is where we can end this debate. I was not here this morning because I was with doctors, I did not follow the debate that much, but it is unacceptable that in this country we are talking about water in a way whether it is the right opposition or it is SMC or ZL or anything. Bats from Mars, but if we fell to lead the government, we should provide drinking water not only to mice from Mars, but to everyone in Slovenia. The fact that I can't drink a glass of drinking water here is also a creamy one. The fact that we have water balloons in our Parliament is also the mastic that we should save. I know you did a quick research assignment. There are parliaments where this is normal. And most of these parliaments are those countries by which I follow the example of development models, where I would like this Slovenian society to move forward. It is unacceptable that in Slovenia the difference we pay for drinking water is somewhere more than one to two. It is unacceptable that in the municipality where Costello’s most expensive water comes from a neighboring congregation, we have a concessional pump, but it doesn’t matter who the concessionaire is, because now someone from Saudi Arabia is going to make a story. It is unacceptable that any government, at a half-secret meeting that took place last year, should grant concessions for certain thermal waters. This society is watery, it is rich, we are entwining with this water, I will not complete this sentence, and with these constitutional changes we must also start dealing with more serious changes. I've said it many times before, instead of buying bad hoodies from the Israelis, let's buy water supply management knowledge from them. But we also have some kind of knowledge at home. 20 years ago, they said that modern wars would be computeristic on the one hand, on the other hand, wars around water resources, as has already been said. I would like to conclude, in fact, that it has been said on several occasions that we are mainly made up of water, that water cannot be a commodity on which to forge profits. If a person is mostly made up of water, then in this House we could also start to view a person as not a commodity, as something we simply do not make a profit on. And that's in the heart of the United Left program. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u197	Since I've seen there's still interest, I'm reopening my application. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. This debate today is an achievement of a particular kind. From constitutional law, the ruling coalition has brought about a debate on gardening, planting flowers. If we look at what expressions are being operated on in the form of amendments, it is also being discussed. The term "safe clean drinking water." Yeah, what does dangerous drinking water look like? Yeah, so she's not drunk. What does dirty drinking water look like? Yeah, so she's not drunk. In short, this search, the gathering of cheap political points leads to a debate in one such dimension, to say the least, the subject does not deserve this kind of treatment. And at least what it is, it should be returned to professional and constitutional waters. But you know very well that if this were to be returned, then it would turn out that the constitutional article already states that property must be used in such a way as to ensure its ecological function. It's a constitutional norm. This article came in on Dr. Jožet Pučnik's proposal, and it saves everything you're talking about today, on your own. Then there are other articles that specify it. Second, paragraph 3 of Article 70 states that natural resources may only be used under the conditions laid down by law. So, natural wealth, including drinking water resources, is already a constitutionally protected good. This means this, translated into Slovenian. And above all, we have paragraph 72, which expressly obliges the country to care for a healthy living environment, whose component is doubtless also drinking water. It is said that even after this plateau, drinking water is already a constitutionally protected good. And all the fine talk that we are now witnessing to him is just a cheap collection of political points, it's unnecessary because everything is already in the constitution. The fathers of the Constitution were well aware of this. And I also know that these discussions were because I was there. That's right. That's all that's been taken care of. Only some of you, in your mandates, the previous and current government, have granted too many concessions, have sold out too much resources, have slightly violated constitutional and legal standards, but now you have come with this kind of talk to your socialist electorate to say, "I, you know, this has had to be constitutionally protected, so until now we have not been able to do so". But this is becoming a true parody of constitutional law. If it continues this way, I remind you that this is already a debate of the kind when you discussed it, as if someone proposed a constitutional norm, that every girl has the right to a shouldered boy and that every boy has the right to an honorable virgin. Such standards do not belong to the Constitution. In the Constitution, water, including all other natural resources, including the right to a healthy environment, is already constitutionally protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u199	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the debate has just focused on one word that may seem ridiculous to someone, perhaps unnecessary. Why we think we need it, I think both colleagues, both Mr Weber and Dr Horvat, have explained quite well. I am surprised that this amendment of New Slovenia will be supported by the proposer, Alenka Bratušek. This amendment from point 1 deletes the third and fourth indent, which has a text that I think we all fought that we should stay in. Let me read: "...that natural water resources serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not marketable goods." This is no longer necessary for you because you find the word “safe” so funny. To ensure that the supply of drinking and water to households is provided by the State through a non-profit public service by transferring natural water resources directly or directly to the direct management of the self-government local communities. So if we accept the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenije, these two indents will no longer be in. Are we trying to achieve that? If the word “safe” really is such a problem, then it may later prove to be yes or no. We think it's necessary. We will see how the process itself will end, what text will eventually come out. But we do not want these two indents to be deleted with the support of this amendment, which are very important for us, for those of us who have supported this amendment. And once again, I'm surprised that one such word can blind you so much that you're essentially erasing your own purposes, I believe you've truly had it at your suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u201	Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u202	I would like to warn the Ambassador of Zajc, and to protect the Ambassador of Bratušk, if Ambassador Zajc reads our amendment in detail and you had it on the bench, then you could find that in point 1 we are talking about what I said, that it is recorded that everyone has the right to drinking water and that natural water resources are naturally good in the administration of the country. Then follow 2nd and 3rd points, where it just says that in 2nd point the word "safe" is deleted, not the entire indent, as you speak of. Ambassador Zajc, you are either deliberately deceiving, or you are severely ill-reading the material. Make up your own mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u203	But you are abusing the rules of procedure to warn the Member of something. Because it's procedurally meant for me to do anything. Comrade Tonin, I'm talking to you. [[adverts from benches]] No, he wasn't procedural. In fact, the procedural option was to engage in the debate after you lost the opportunity to speak because you had already spent time on the substantive matter. Please use procedural proposals for what they are intended for. She's got a word as a proponent of mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u204	Yeah, you really need to read what's on the bench. And that is, unfortunately, what I warned you about this morning. We're here with, I don't know what word to use, the purpose that we've had to propose was definitely that the water in the constitution protects that water is the right of everyone, that it can't be freely available to them, that we can't sell water resources. Now we're hearing a lecture about how they're cooking water in Pakistan. Yes, it is, somewhere else they cook it, but safe or I hope and perhaps, Minister, it would be right for you to say that in Slovenia we have safe drinking water, no matter what we write in the constitution. That's why we talk so much about it. Indeed, there will be still time, indeed time, and I have already said in the beginning that I do not understand why so many amendments had to be tabled in this basic phase. That is why we have abstained in our parliamentary group to invest any amendment at this stage and have not done so. I propose that we put the debate back in the context of the content. To those of us who are concerned that this matter really comes to an end and that in the next steps we are listening once again to experts, constitutional lawyers and to tell us what is the minimum that could be written into the constitution that things are arranged. Whatever amendments we have on the table today, we haven't heard an expert opinion in any of them. And that can be a problem in this process. So, President, in my introduction and in the first part exactly what is happening now, I have warned, and I hope that we will truly cool our heads and bring things to where we want and will not lose everything because of the prestigious games and prestigious battles. And with such a large number of votes, we managed to get through to changing the constitution. I hope that the goal will be achieved in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u205	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Comrade Brana Grimes warned us that we were swimming in mud. See, safe drinking water, of course this provides a drinking water policy, it is very complex, contains many regulations, including a regulation on monitoring, radioactivity in drinking water and so on. And this one eliminates dangerous drinking water. For God's sake, the Ministry's representatives are about to cross because members of the coalition seem to be unaware of the legal arrangements already on the table. Read the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the European Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u207	The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues! We talked a lot today, and we'll talk about the content. I would like to speak a few words myself about the process that has led to such content, including the content that we are talking about. This is a process that has happened for the first time in the context of the change of the Constitution in the way it happened, and for the first time in my behaviour, even in changing any constitution. It happened in cooperation with at least part of the policy, I am talking about our parliamentary group, the Group of the Modern Centre Party, in direct cooperation with the contents, views, with the solutions that came from civil society, from an initiative that was represented by Mr Brane Golubović, on behalf of all those almost 60 000 signatories for such protection of water in the Constitution, and at the same time in cooperation with the management profession. That is why it took so much thought and coordination on our side to come up with a substantive proposal that goes beyond a classic political initiative. I support and am pleased to see that this proposal, now that it comes into the arena of formal decision-making, has received such support that we can work on it substantively further. I believe it will be of interest that we will continue to do so. So in close cooperation, not only by seeking a political, like solution, as some of you tell us, but in particular by seeking solutions for which all together are as united as possible – from citizens, individuals, to professions and in the final stage, we also believe that the one who will further constitutionally protect the water and in this way also the nature. Unfortunately, we are the development of society, and we ourselves have come to a point where we are no longer enough to protect ourselves with the Constitution, but because of ourselves and because of the country, we must protect nature in the way we approach this protection now. What I am stressing once again is the content that is so complex today, which is very much now, in some way, already in conflict politically speaking and negotiating, not only the result of politics, but is the result of cooperation between all those who have been sent or called upon to work together with us as formal decision makers to form this solution. And you know, when and if we continue with such a process to the end, we will show one different level of political culture, democracy and relationship that we also have in our day-to-day work to the profession and to people who want to actively form what we have to do here formally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u209	Please, mate Pojbich. I guess it's still an interest, so I'm asking you to report it. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me begin by thanking Mr Tonin and Mrs Bratušek for teaching me to read things before you answer. You can read them wrong, make a mistake. By thinking this time that I did not make Mr Tonin and Mrs Bratusek read the amendment wrong. I believe there's been a reading error, but I don't know if there's been a writing error. The amendment says that the text of point 1 of the proposal and point 1 of the proposal must be examined. The first point of the proposal is very broad and has four indents. And if we change this even point 1 of the proposal by stating that the section of the first draft of the constitutional law proposes the addition of Article 70 of the Constitution to the provisions of Article 70a, in order to ensure that everyone has the right to drinking water and that natural water resources are naturally good in the governance of the country, this is the end. So, you've reduced point one to unrecognizability practically, we've put out what we've been up to. I think that I have read it correctly, and those who may have thought, because you have focused on the word "safe" were thinking about supporting this amendment, not supporting it, not supporting it, and keeping in these positions the things that we were trying to do from the very beginning when we were talking about why we wanted to change or complement our constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u211	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try to explain this position, which my colleague Grims explained about the meaning of this entry into the Constitution on another case from the Constitution. If you receive the Constitution and read, say, the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter, it reads: "The national borders of the Republic of Slovenia are the internationally recognised borders of the SFRJ with the Republic of Austria, with the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Hungary in the work in which these countries border the Republic of Slovenia, and the borders between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in the context of the FFRJ so far." That's the text. Now someone would suggest, say, the addition of this constitution, or this second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter, as follows: "The border between countries runs along the Kolpa, Sotli River, Mura River, Drava, Sochi River." That's about the style you picked out when everything else was arranged. And then we would in any way like to define it even more, to be more complex, to be more politically coordinated, as the colleague said before, and insist that this is further written into the constitution than any additional explanation. That's what we're talking about right now. Or let's say I give you another example from the Constitution, say article 110: "The government is made up of presidents and ministers. The Government and individual ministers shall, within their respective powers, be independent and accountable to the National Assembly." That's the text. And now someone would suggest an additional, additional paragraph, where they would write, say, "Ministers are obliged to respond to the content covered by them in the National Assembly to Members of the National Assembly in all the laws that are in the legislative process." We now have cases where ministers come and don't speak or there are no ministers at all, but they are proponents, I don't know, some important system laws. Or today's case, in this debate, the Minister has not yet spoken in the context of this debate that we are now having, with this much-needed entry of your proposal into the constitution. This is how you've gone about regulating this area. Something that is arranged, which we all understand, which is naturally logical, which is geographically logical, you would also write as an additional constitutional solution, just to do something. The problem that is present in this coalition is that it is very capable of handling matters. For those who are irrefutablely clear, you have some special details where you have an immeasurable desire to handle this further. But you are not dealing with the fundamental issues that are crucial to this country. There have been no stimulating projects in two years, no reform measures, waiting periods are prolonged, tax burdens are rising, social transfers are more and more similar to some American way of taking scholarships when you get credit so you can get an education, and then you return it. All these social transfers that you are introducing are increasingly similar to what you are criticising most, and this is also credit for social transfers. In short, you're dealing with pleonasm, what's now under discussion is pleonasm, and you're handling things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u213	It's obviously still an interest, so please sign in. First of all, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. The one who is most opposed to making this right is forgetting one thing. It is true that we have rules, we have laws that are relatively good at dealing with these matters right now, but with laws, and there is a very large flaw in the rules in general. The rule can be changed by itself, and the laws in this national assembly can also be made relatively easy to change or to make in such a way that they are no longer as good as they are today. And counting on us always to keep in good health in some way what we call the constitution extension, as it is written today, is not enough. Now Rene Descartes once said that common sense is distributed most evenly of all things in the world, because everyone thinks that it is in such abundance that even those who are difficult to satisfy in every other thing want no more than overcome it. So the reference to common sense is not enough, and there is not enough at all at such a point as we are talking about today. In short, if we are to protect the right to drinking water, we must, of course, make this clear by changing the constitution. This is an act that is the highest in our legal order, an act that is above all other forms, including international treaties, and that is the only thing that ensures that we will in some way all agree that the right of every inhabitant or resident of this country, as well as of any other, is the only way to ensure it. The description of the right to drinking water in the constitution is not a whim, it is not a political pear performance, but there is a fact that may be very soon at present, but certainly in a few decades. The way in which it is now proposed, and even if only the constitutional law's position is correctly formulated as such, it is the only way that we can actually get to what we say is the goal today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u215	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u216	Short notice. I've said before that the subject is too important to be pathetic about. When I hear all this together, it seems to me that I would need another constitutional law to say that in Slovenia there is a debate that is substantively focused, not just in Parliament. However, I must also address myself because of what Mrs Simona, a doctor of political science, has said, there is no politics and not only in the National Assembly, but also outside the National Assembly there is politics. And I hope that these practices, such practices, will be watched several times. Perhaps it is a little younger colleague than me and some of the older socialists with FDV, where late Professor Bibič taught us about politics in a narrower and broader sense. It is high time that this parliamentary democracy also takes this into account. I hope we can put an end to this security pathetice, the danger. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u217	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate by Mr Tank points to the relationship of one of the parliamentary parties to the environment, to the natural goods that we have in this country, points to a certain sense of simplicity, to the fact that these goods are boundless, inexhaustible, and may also point to a certain scepticism about the purpose of entering the constitution, to limit the use by possible commercial purposes of multinationals and others to the detriment of the people of Slovenia. As for the discussions with which Nova Slovenija and Mrs Alenka Bratušek are trying to iron out the term "safe drinking water" and what Mr Tanko also joins in saying that it is pleonaism, that it is something that is absolutely unnecessary or that it is a cheap collection of political points only shows their simplicity and ignorance of matters. I have before me an open website of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. The text is: How to provide safe drinking water? And we read on. "If the use of drinking water poses a potential risk to human health, the operator must stop or limit the use of drinking water. A common measure is to order cooking, but it can provide alternative water supply, packaging, tanks, etc. It is therefore necessary to follow the notifications concerning drinking water. Gentlemen in the SDS obviously don't want to hear an explanation of what the difference between drinking water and safe drinking water is. Mr President, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u219	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u220	Mr from the SDS, who is in no way able to understand or not to understand the difference between safe drinking water and drinking water, should open the website of the Management of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue, in particular Mr Tanko, to find that this is not pleonazem, but that it is an essential substantive difference. By the way, one of the tips is that disinfection of drinking water by cooking is a safe method. So it is not such a simplistic explanation that drinking water is also safe in itself. Obviously not, since it says here what is the difference between safe drinking water and drinking water. I think that we are quite exact in this way, and I hope that I have explained simply enough that now everyone understands this difference, that we will not be making a fool of this proposal now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u221	Quiet. You have taken time, therefore you do not have the right to discuss substantive matters at this time. And I didn't give you my word. Can we hold on to some discipline in this national assembly? We're having a debate. Does anyone else want to discuss the subject? There is no longer any interest in the debate. Since there is no further interest in the debate, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments of 12. Seven. 2016, published on the e-club. Before voting, I wish to inform you that, having regard to the provision of Article 178(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to the position has been adopted, if it is voted on by a majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. The same majority also applies to the adoption of a position. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to point 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to points 2 and 3. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to those points of view shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 50. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the 1st point of view has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the 2nd and 3rd points of view has become irrelevant. I am putting to the vote the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to point 2. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left to point 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 8. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the position of the Constitutional Commission as a whole. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the position is fully adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission will, on the basis of its position adopted, prepare a proposal for a constitutional law and submit it for consideration to the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Succession under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 11. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 6. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 7 and 18. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to that article shall become irrelevant. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, chairman. As proposers of this amendment, we will, of course, support him in the United Left. Why? Refundable social assistance, a returnable protective allowance, and so on are not solidarity unconditional aid to those who are most marginalized in Slovenian society. And we can't even talk about social transfers in the case of puffa, which is, at the moment, we can talk about social transfers, and we can talk more about the social crime that's going on. We know that as a result of the introduction and realisation of the return on social assistance in 2012, as soon as all of this happened, the protection allowance was cancelled by as many as 16 000 100 beneficiaries, who could otherwise receive it. These are older people in a very difficult social situation, often on the periphery, said to be already geographically dispersed and far from developed centres. Here, there are also particularly exposed groups, such as older single women, widows, and for the poverty of an endangered group. Poverty is particularly common in this segment of our fellow citizens. Over half the people, the individual of this profile is poor. In the United Left we propose that in the Succession Act one of the great stimulants of poverty in Slovenia be deleted. We propose to delete the return on social assistance, the return on the security allowance and so on that social assistance becomes the most vulnerable in Slovenian society what it should be: unconditional solidarity support. The direct effects on the budget in terms of finances are negligible. For the security supplement at this point, I think we are spending about €1.5 million. This is from the point of view of the budget. Even more valuable are the finances that have been brought back by the State or the municipalities at the expense of the return on social assistance. Last year, my question was answered by the Government that in 2015 and 2014, €216 000 was recovered from the property on which the country settled. These revenues, however, were negligible. So, on the one hand, we have change, less than a quarter of a million euros that the country has acquired with the returnability of social assistance, and on the other hand, we have the social cost of that, 16 thousand 100 people left without the necessary solidarity assistance from the protection allowance. That's just one factor, so we're defending this amendment in the United Left and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u223	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, President. With regard to the amendment tabled by the United Left Group, I can only say that the Group of Members of the Modern Centre will vote against it. This is mainly due to the fact that the Succession Act, which has 19 articles, and what the representative of the United Left has just described is defined as whether the problem is Article 6. This Article 6 makes it very clear that one of the rights contained in this home law is the Succession Act. Secondly, the rights and, in particular, its debate, which was not only present here in this context in explanation, but also during the course of the day at this point of the agenda, which was directly linked to the Social Security Benefits Act. And that's why we're going to vote against it, because this Social Security Benefit Act is now an open law. And as was also said in the debate, it is because of the content, the complexity and sensitivity of the topic for certain groups of citizens and citizens, in order to reach substantively into the very content of the Social Protection Benefits Act. In this context, I can also say that I will not be included in the explanation of the amendments tabled below. These contents of the amendments are bound by a law that does not belong to this law on inheritance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u225	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you very much, chairman. What we just heard was largely not an explanation of vote, but it was a direct controversy, both with my previous debate and with my explanation of vote. I think you should remind Mr Verbic's contractor, the chairman, of that. In fact, because in my explanation of vote, as it is in today's debate, he is deceiving much if I use only kind words not to say anything worse. And like the debate today at the point of the agenda, when attention has been diverted from Article 6 and the fact that we are dealing with the returnability of social assistance and that we can arrange this in the Succession Act, we are also trying to divert attention from this content in our amendment on explanations of vote. My procedural proposal is to remind your fellow Member, a party colleague, that his voice should be reasoned as it is, but not that as a small bull, he falls into my explanation of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u227	I mean, it's not like anything, it's not procedural, it's offensive. This debate really doesn't make sense. You had your explanation of vote, there was an explanation which was yours opposite and used procedurally to dispute with it and at the same time insult. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u228	Mr President, I suggest you give a warning to both of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u229	Only one of them broke the procedure. That first case was an explanation of vote. Whatever we're looking at here. And you have another explanation for the voice that I have seen, so I ask if there is any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Even in the Desus Group we will not support this amendment, because the Succession Act mainly regulates these matters relating to inheritance. This is the case with the elements of the European Certificate of Succession, the different types of heirs defined by this law, the legacy in case of no heirs and so on. However, as far as Article 6 is concerned, it speaks of social transfers. This is a provision which falls under the Law on Social Transfers and will be regulated there. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is committed to drafting a change in the law, and we will then deal with these 16 000 and so many pensioners who have been told to live below the poverty threshold and that they should settle this in this law. The Desus Group, as I said, will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u231	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. I can't believe the words I hear. Look, I'm gonna say something that I've said many times before, but maybe most people won't agree to it. Slovenia is a wealthy society and a country to afford such forms of systematic poverty-poverty push. And it's high time that this systematic flip-flops to the head, which somehow says it's a social credit, stops in any kind of marriage. Because then I'll listen to you scribes, and how the laws aren't aligned. I've learned so much in two years here. And some sort of delusion that you're going to handle it then and then. And that's what Desus is telling me, which, by the way, the minister of Svetlik came to me and turned it upside down, and now he won't give me a hand when I meet him in college when we talk about it. Any government should have done so within the first week of its mandate. I'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u233	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, I will vote in favour of the amendment of the United Left to remove the irreparability of social transfers and to end this disgrace in the image of our social state or on the effectiveness of our social state or the justice of the social state, if you want, which is called social assistance as a credit, which is not really any help. I will also vote in favour of this amendment because there is no argument against our social measures and the abolition of returnability, and no serious argument has objected to this. Claims that it is not the substance of the law at all and that all touch on the Social Security Benefits Act simply do not hold up as some counter-argument with weight. If that were the case, then the government would not bring a law to the table that would in Article 6 encourage the reimbursement of funeral expenses if such costs were borne by the congregation in the event of such or other poverty. That this amendment drinks water, also very clearly testifies to the definition of the Legal and Legislative Service, which thinks that our amendments are completely in place. In short, of all the opposition to our amendment, only the claim that it was not the substance of this law was repeatedly repeated, and this claim was repeatedly put to a lie during this afternoon's debate, which means that at the principal level, on an argumentary level, on a constitutional level, if you will, the amendment of the United Left stands. Social assistance as a form of a non-interest state loan must be recorded in history. By adopting our amendment to the Succession Act at this session, we can do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u235	We're voting. There are 83 Members present and 32 votes against 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 6 has not been adopted, amendments to Articles 7 and 18 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 6. If this amendment is accepted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Let's get this straight, because sometimes it feels like some people don't know what we're actually doing. The fact is that we are talking about inheritance, and this is the subject of this law. We are talking about Articles 6 and 7, and this is the subject of this law, and we are talking about amendments that have been tabled in accordance with the procedure. And once again, to be clear to everyone, the fact is that someone here is very clever. You're talking about changing things into another marriage. Your Honor, this law is from 2010, so-called the Svetlik Act. The minister, who, in your opinion, will arrange this once again, said that the same law was the most social law. And you're convincing us today how we're going to save everything in another matter. Your Honor, this is how it is. On one side of our streets are those who have exhausted our companies, caused a bank hole with credits, and on the other hand those who have been pushed into a corner, today you are pushing even more. So you essentially end social transfers and offer their owners loans. What are they gonna take them with and only what are they gonna pay them? A rude and unworthy social state and a constitutional record.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u237	Is there any other explanation at the level of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, fellows! I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because I would like to prevent with this amendment that 10 000 566 people who have received a protective supplement in 2015 on their deathbed will not think about their legacy going into the hands of the country, because you are actually doing so by this law. They received a million and a half security supplement in 2015 all together. In fact, you are not only prejudiced by this law on economic issues, but also on five questions. These people or their heirs will be disassociated, for the country will take part in this property. And secondly, you're abolishing any social benefits for people who receive protective supplements. You're introducing a credit mechanism. Such a credit, on behalf of which is called a security allowance, is given to someone to the death, and then their heirs must return it, without interest yet. If you stay on the government for a while, you'll come up with the idea of charging interest as well. And that's what I called the first-class shit in my debate. And I'll tell you again, it's a first-class shit. What you're doing with the social state, look, I don't think in the most neoliberal countries we'd be able to do that, but you're actually doing that. But that's what SMC does, that's what Desus does, and that's what SD does. And it's right that people know that. I will support this amendment and suggest that you do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u239	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u240	Thank you very much again for your word, President. I simply had to come by because I think in these explanations it somehow turns out that Members of this so-called legislative competence, what is written in the amendment of the law, are each by their own interpretation. I think it's best that I read what is meant to be a stumbling block, if I can call it that if it's addressed to all those users of this law, they know what it's all about. I believe that it is simply misleading in a specific matter. For the first time, what is laid down and the jurisdiction of this law and what is the jurisdiction of legal matter, which is not the subject of this law. I believe that this force is a sensitive topic, but the fact is that this divide is clear for us legislators. The first sentence states that the inheritance of the property of a person who has benefited from aid in accordance with social protection rules shall be limited to the amount of the aid received. And hereafter, "unless otherwise specified in the social protection rules." What does this look like in practice or in fact? The succession procedure shall be carried out through the District Court. In this estate procedure, the District Court takes into account exactly what is always a different interpretation of our Members, this is the competence of the Social Protection Benefits Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u241	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. At least there were two of them. Please sign up. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment. I'm going to support him because there's enough of this debate about how some things are regulated in the legislative work. The Maritime Code has recently been adopted since it repealed a number of provisions of the Labour Relations Act. The non-systemic and probably intentional, but no one was disturbed by the coalition MPs. Now that we are proposing that these matters be regulated in the proper law or in the right law in the way we propose, there are, at once, broad concerns that this is not wrong, not systematic and that this is regulated in another law. I think that those who adopt laws, including us, should probably have the same vats and judge all the solutions that come to this legislative table with the same criteria. The Maritime Code has repealed the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and has created a systemic legal void, which will make some profit greatly because all procedures will be abolished against them. On the other hand, you encounter a solution that is perfectly normal for this law, is systemic, it is here because the amendment has not been rejected, as in one case before, no one has disputed anything, and it is simply a matter to be resolved in steps. In this case, we can save this part that is foreseen by this amendment. As far as the Social Security Benefits Act is concerned, you bring it in, and we'll fix it there, the part that can't be fixed here. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u243	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u244	Of course I'll support the amendment. I'll back him up because he's still in this marriage. The fact is, if we don't change it here and then you start to sort it out somewhere else, you'll say it again, yes, because it's written here. Because if he wasn't troublesome, then this amendment would be very easy to support. And that's not gonna happen. And since we have already talked about how it is in real life, 78% of the beneficiaries of the so-called protection allowance have given up because they do not want to transfer these burdens to their children. This is the life of this marriage, and we have it. And there is no amendment. What you promise, I'm sorry, it's like people start feeding through glass. Your promises have long been forgotten.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u245	There's obviously still an interest in the application, so please apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that all of us sitting in this House know very well that we have already proposed twice in the Slovenian Democratic Party to change this problem that we are dealing with here today. And it would be wise for those who speak in such a way or other today to be aware of it. At the same time, I would like to make it very clear that this law makes the return of social transfers concrete. It's a social injustice, it's unacceptable, and it's a big mess. The deceptions that have been used today, however, are the contraband used by the government and the coalition. This is something that we feel more about not only the opposition, but also about Slovenian citizens and citizens. I think that's really what Andrej Shircelj said. This has to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u247	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, chairman. This coalition likes to use the word systemically, systematically. Any elimination of injustice or filth, if I quote a speaker in front of me, is a systemic solution. Pika. If I had known in the way we behave too often in this House as the youngest group in the nursery, I would probably have insulted the youngest group now, of course I would not have supported it. You know what the SDS has to do with the United Left, you know what they said about me personally, about our comrade and so on. But it was a mess again in this particular case, because there are some things that aren't funny. Regardless of who proposes, it is the duty of Members and Members to consider and vote for such amendments, which eliminate injustices, or, if you want to take Pojbič's, swine. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. It is likely that some more radically united leftists will be writing about me today, and I hope that the rest, the Member and Members of the United Left, will also support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u249	Right now, we're voting. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 33 of whom were voted against and 39 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia parliamentary group, which has signed under the amendment, will, of course, fail this amendment. We're a little naive, and we say the third one's good. This is the third amendment to Article 6. With this amendment, we simply coordinate, and this amendment aligns the level of inheritance restrictions for the prodigals who have received assistance under the social protection rules. We are in line with the current provisions of the Social Security Benefits Act, which means the partial financial burden on the heirs who decide to repay the State or the municipality the value of social assistance paid to the prostitute. It is therefore a matter of harmonising the two laws. The Succession Act must probably be in line with the Social Security Benefits Act. It would be good for us, colleagues and colleagues, to go to the level of those people who have nothing else to do with Svetlik's decision that year when he abolished their so-called state pensions, today have nothing but €220 of so-called social assistance. Can they survive with this? If we round 250 a month, it's 3,000 a year. However, the country calculated for 2015 that the poverty risk threshold is EUR 7 000 111. Where, then, is one who receives only 3,000 euros of social assistance per year? And the people in the countryside are knocking on my sleeve and saying, "Oh, boy, for God's sake, give us a little lift so we can survive." I say, "Do you have any assets?" "Yeah, look, we've been doing this together our whole lives, those few fields, three hectares, that's what they do." This is a special attitude towards what people spend their entire lives gathering in a farm, in a rural area. Maybe it's different in town, I don't know, because I don't live in town. Do we have a hearing for this? Can we today, colleagues and colleagues, test the functioning of Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which, among other things, says that Slovenia is also a social state. I really feel like we've got the wrong world. Here, the right block of the opposition, of course the United Left, we are fighting for the social state. And it's usually obvious to us on the right that we're not social, that we're for capitalists. Today we have these people who are struggling to survive with social assistance of €220 per month. I'm asking you to think about it. Of course, we will vote in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u251	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. Even though the better, more effective amendment we have proposed has not been adopted, we will support this amendment. We will also support it because we have already proposed twice in this mandate a Social Protection Act proposing the abolition of mortgages on the receipt of social security benefits or social security transfers. Unfortunately, in this National Assembly, the coalition did not support this. And that is why we will support this, because we cannot trust any good and big words from the coalition Members in order to settle this in another law. They already had twice the opportunity in this mandate, and they have not done so. On the one hand, we are dealing with some of the people who are in a difficult social situation and we are giving them a bridge credit until death in this case, and on the other hand we have some privileged former government officials who have a few thousand dollars in pension and live and enjoy the ratings of a subsidised apartment, say one of the social institutions. That's why they won't be charged with any mortgage. I'm asking myself and the others if that's fair. Is this a social state principle? Whether this problem is in this or the way in which this coalition works and the previous coalitions led by the left-handed parties not to follow the principles of the social state, they only talk about it when it comes to deciding that the social state will actually be social is against it. On the other hand, they're blue-haired, covering everything that's got to do with privilege. That political group. Therefore, I see absolutely no reason, a legitimate reason, not to support such an amendment. I would even suggest that we support a better solution, which was previously proposed, and that we begin to work seriously on strengthening the social state and eliminating the privileges of those who receive them completely without need. Someone who has a few thousand dollars' pension with no idea what resources gets a subsidy in a social home, one who actually needs it, gets a loan, the state gives him a loan and then settles it when the time comes. I suggest that someone else thinks about it and supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u253	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour and 55 votes in favour. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the law. We're moving on to the third reading of the law. As the amendments to the amended amended law have not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u254	In the United Left, as we say, we will not support this law because our amendment was not adopted. The law of succession is very rarely changed. I think we have heard today in the debate that it has been once or twice in the last 20 years. In short, not many times. And today, the expensive coalition has missed out on not saying a historic opportunity to eliminate historical injustice, which is a reciprocal social aid. They had every opportunity to support the amendment of the United Left and did not do so, and social assistance remains in Slovenia, according to the social state, the antisocial pouf. Because of this law of succession in the United Left, we cannot support it. Members of Parliament have little formal opportunity and formal right to step forward, to trample on the social status of the poor, the retired, the ousted, and we certainly have no moral right to do so. I think there is no one in the Chamber today who would receive less than €2,000 net salary. And we, as an organ, the National Assembly, have taken the right not to impose social aid on people but, rather, the antisocial poof. We have cemented this right, infused it in the law of succession against the work of the right-wing tribunal, but with the opposition of the United Left, this is what this National Assembly will adopt or will finally confirm today. See, such a law on inheritance, such antisocial measures by socialists, without any socialists, no normal people can support it, and we will not support it in the United Left and its Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u255	Explanation on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Center of Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you again for your word, President. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will support this law. Initially, I can only mention that colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group are sad to learn something. That in this National Assembly you are Members and Members of various parliamentary groups by their own interpretation or interpretation of the provisions set out in the amendment of this Act. And as it was in the debate, as was already stated in the explanatory statement itself today, this is the Law on Succession. To prove this, we must touch on what is the subject of this law on inheritance. Initially, it was said to consist of 19 articles. But the essence of this law is to transpose the regulation of the European Union, which literally introduces into this Slovenian legal order a new institution, which was practically not mentioned in the debate at all, except exceptionally. And this is a European Certificate of Succession, which significantly facilitates excessive succession procedures. What is crucial in this matter is the abolition, if I may say so, of the 2009 Constitution and of the 2013 Constitution. It is also forgotten that this law on inheritance regulates specific areas that still have a bearing on individuals. What exactly does that mean? Possibility of concluding an agreement to cancel an undeclared inheritance. Citizens have many problems in this area. What also has a key impact on the social situation of individuals, which has not been mentioned at all in this law, is that the debt owed to the prodigal in bankruptcy proceedings without heirs as to the content and also further procedures relating to the preparation of the death certificate, all these matters are still important for our citizens. Once again, Article 6 in conjunction with Article 7 is certainly in the open procedure already under the Law on Social Security Benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u257	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. I really meant to keep my mouth shut this time, but I can't. After two years of the composition of this call by the National Assembly, someone who looks at it from the outside would think that the functioning of the National Assembly is really the essence of transposing European directives, which is not true. The essence of the functioning of the National Assembly, parliamentary democracy, is to regulate the conditions for joint co-existence. That's the whole point of being here. To enact new laws according to the principle of Pareth's optimism. If I say a little domestically, if we are doing positive discrimination to anyone, that someone on the other hand is not deprived of it, and in the amendment of existing laws, that we are correcting old injustices, we are not introducing new injustices, and we are adapting laws to changes in some society. That's the whole point of our work if no one else has told you. Obviously, this coalition is unaware of this, so I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u259	We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 13. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of item 15 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the determination of cadastral income under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 11 Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments under points 1 and 2 are essentially the same, so we will vote on them together. We therefore decide on the amendments to Article 6 of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 51. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 51. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I say that the New Slovenia Group will not support this law on the determination of cadastral income or more precisely, and we will vote against it. We cannot adopt a law that, at times we said to Slovenian grains, is in Pomurje raising cadastral income by factor 5, by 500%. And despite the fact that the Regional Unit of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Murska Sobota Regional Unit, pointed out this, I also showed calculations of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, but for these calculations, for exact numbers, no one simply traded. We must also take into account that the last change in European common agricultural policy has actually gone in this direction to win the environmentalists. Nothing wrong. But it is wrong that losers are the ones who produce food — that is, farmers. In the debate on the cadastral income law, virtually no one – except New Slovenia, also touched on the issues of the common agricultural policy and agricultural subsidies when brexit actually took place. It hasn't happened again. People just made up their minds. The fact is that agricultural subsidies, which we firmly believe will be reduced in Slovenia, will fall. Will farmers know how to design their business models by surviving? At least I hope that my initiative will be adopted by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. However, it went this way to publish on the website of the Ministry of Finance an informative calculation of cadastral income for 2017, perhaps even better 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, so that farmers can optimize their business or optimize their taxes. We regret that our amendment, which was based on the findings of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, was not adopted and was based on bookkeeping data, accounting data according to the methodology used by all Member States of the European Union. Too much force has gone on this law without taking into account some key circumstances that await Slovenian agriculture in the coming years. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u261	Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u262	We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Commission, which was composed by the Government, worked for three years in two mandates and did little, almost nothing. It came before the deadline with a law that was not in line with the representatives of farmers, not with the union, not with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Then she began to give in to her intentions, and they did not fully agree. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that now that the purchase price has fallen very much over the past two years, so that farmers are in an unenviable position, they are faced with costs already exceeding their own price or purchase price, the government has decided to increase the cadastral income several times. This is a very bad message to farmers. Minister Židan, who should represent agriculture here, himself said on the committee that dairyers would have to go to at least partial milk processing if they wanted to survive in the future. The government, however, burdens them with higher cadastral income. The least affected, however, will be those small farmers who, in our opinion, do not have the right representatives in the bodies that cooperated with the Commission because they have other incomes, one salary or even two salaries besides the cadastral income. The catastrophe income is attributed to them, although it is low, but still increases their base for calculating their income. We therefore feel that this law is not good. In addition, in the transitional provisions you have laid down that the cadastral income will be even lower in 2017 than it has been so far. These decisions will reach farmers in 2018, which is before the next elections. The real picture, or real burden, will come in the next term, in the new government. On the other hand, it also gives us the opportunity to change this law at this time, substantially changing it to be fairer, more fair especially to small farmers who mostly cultivate Slovenian land. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u263	Mr Simon Zajc has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. President. As early as 2011, we knew that a new method for determining cadastral income needed to be introduced. Today we are in 2016. The method that was introduced at the time proved to be unfair — and it proved to be so — that we needed a new one. And we have a new one on the table today. This law of today is in full harmony with everyone concerned. Maximum. Except in one point, this is said in the point where we have to decide whether we will use the same methodology for income and costs or whether we will use the same methodology in terms of what suits us better. Whether we will use statistical data in the economic calculation somewhere or we will use the FADN methodology somewhere. But that's not how it works. They're both the same. But everything else we've done has been maximized, so we've been listening and we've gone across the street. This law, which is before us today, is predictable, is simple, is fair, and I think it must be adopted, and our Group of Members will confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u265	We're voting. 84 Members and Members were present and 49 were voted against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on mental-loving matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, is 30. 6. Mr Špelco Mežnar, appointed Mrs Špelco Mežnar, Judge of the Constitutional Court, as Judge of the Court of Justice, to serve as Judge of the Court on 19 November 2016. In accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate, Dr Špelca Mežnar, will take office on 31 October 2016 in the event of an election for a judge of the Constitutional Court. However, under the conditions laid down in Article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate, Mr Marko Šorli, will take office on 20 November 2016 in the event of an election for a judge of the Constitutional Court. I give the floor, Mrs Natashi Kovac, to the representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for further explanation of the proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u266	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you are a candidate for a judge and a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. At the invitation of the President of the Republic to collect proposals for candidates for both seats of the Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Office of the President received nine proposals from candidates. Let me write them down: mag. Darinka Deklava Marguch, special professor of Dr. Ange Erbežnik, mag. Damian Gantar, associate of Dr. Speltz Mežnar, mag. Boštjan Pintar, a special professor Dr. Rok Svetlič, a regular professor Dr. Bojan Škof, Marko Šorli and Dr. Andraz Zidar. This time, the President of the Republic paid particular attention to the selection process. As early as March this year, he met up with former constitutional judges on this subject. Following a review of all the candidates' arrivals, individual talks were held at the office of the President with all the candidates and candidates applied for. For the first time, the President of the Republic held two rounds of consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups and representatives of the nationalities. It considers that, in addition to the unequivocal professional competence of the candidates, it is particularly important to have sufficient support for the election of the National Assembly in the first round, both from the point of view of the unmistakable part of the Constitutional Court and from the point of view of strengthening confidence in the fundamental institutions of the rule of law. Following all the discussions and consultations, the President of the Republic has rightly decided that both candidates between Members and Members of the National Assembly shall enjoy broad support for the appointment. In the preceding week, the candidates also made a public presentation of the proposal for their appointment by the President of the Republic. The wider public was thus able to get directly acquainted with their thinking and the reasons for their candidacy. On this basis, the President of the Republic decided that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, should take the place of mag. Miroslav Mozetič, whose term of office is 30 years. In October, she proposes to associate Dr Špelco Mežnar and to the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the City of Mag. Marte Klampfer, whose term is 19 years. In November, he proposes, Mr. Mark Schorley. Allow me a few words further about both candidates. Prof. Dr. Špelca Mežnar finished her studies at the Ljubljana Faculty of Law with the highest grade in her class and received recognition of this college for excellent academic success. During her postgraduate studies, she conducted, inter alia, a semester study of copyright in the United States of America and a one-year specialisation in European Union law at the University of Cambridge. She worked at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana until 2008. Currently she is a lecturer at the International Faculty of Social and Business Sciences in Celje, and a researcher at the Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and a lawyer candidate at the law firm. She has been involved in the preparation of various studies, professional bases for several sectoral laws and numerous international research projects. She was further educated at home and abroad all the time. It regularly publishes scientific and professional contributions in the field of civil and economic law. Her bibliography covers over a hundred units. She is a participant in many summer schools and receives several scholarships. He is a member of the Council of Experts at the Bar Association of Slovenia and the Arbitrary of Economic Disputes in the Permanent Arbitration Office of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. One of the key qualities of the candidate is the integration of legal theory and practice and the excellent ability to make written and oral legal arguments. She is a regular lecturer at the Law School, the School of Justice, Civil and Economic Law Days and other organisations and seminars. Despite her relative youth, she is an expert with high reputation among her colleagues and has already received many awards and awards for her work. It is ready to make a public statement on issues relating to wider society. She's honest, she's direct and she's responsible. He advocates persistently and unrelentingly. Docentko Dr Špelco Mežnar proposed the dean of the International Faculty of Social and Business Studies in Celje as a candidate for the Constitutional Court judge, and her candidacy was also supported by the Administrative Committee of the Bar Association of Slovenia. Mr Marko Šorli is the Supreme Judge, the Councilor of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Vodka of the Criminal Department of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. He devoted his entire career to the judicial profession. He was elected a member of the Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994. In 1998 and 1999, he was also president. Since 1996 he has been a judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In 1999 and 2000, he was Head of the Division for International Cooperation in the Court of Justice of the Supreme Court. From 2000 to March 2010, the Vice-President of the Supreme Court. From 2000 onward, he is the head of the Criminal Division of the Supreme Court. He is a member of the examination committee for legal examinations. He was a member of the Executive Committee of the Slovenian Judicial Society, a member of the working group on the preparation of organisational laws in the field of the judiciary. He was a member of the working groups that prepared new laws on criminal proceedings, as well as a member of the section that prepared an analysis of the causes and proposals for reducing and eliminating judicial backlogs in 2002. It has, inter alia, been working with the Commission for the effectiveness of the Court of Justice of the Council of Europe since its establishment in 2002 and the supervisory committee of the regional project to establish the independent and reliable functioning of the judicial systems of the Western Balkan countries within the framework of the Council of Europe. As a member of the Executive Board of the Slovenian Judicial Society at the time, he is the author of the applicable rules of this company. When preparing the draft Slovenian Constitution, he took the initiative to determine the right of a lawful judge following the example of the Austrian Constitution. Mr Šorli is always active in the field of expertise as a legal theorist. As a lecturer in the field of criminal law, he regularly participates in a number of forms of vocational education. His bibliography includes close to 30 units and a rich international congressional activity with numerous reports. As the Council of Justice wrote down years ago, Mr Šorli is a top expert in criminal law with extensive publicist activity and highlighted working skills. In addition to professional activities, he has been participating throughout his judicial career in numerous projects to improve the organisation and functioning of the judiciary. Throughout his life, he has worked hard to democratise the judiciary and the independence of the judges associated with their responsibility. In addition to its extensive experience, Mr Šorli is able to resolve the most challenging legal issues. In his work, he sovereignly asserts and argues his legal position. Honourable Members and Members, the President of the Republic considers that the candidate associate Dr Špelca Mežnar and candidate Mr Marko Šorli meet the high professional criteria and demonstrate the relevant experience, knowledge and integrity for the successful performance of this important function, the function of judge or judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u267	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Desus Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u268	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This autumn, the mandate of the two Constitutional Judges will expire and all procedures for the appointment of two new Judges will have to be completed in accordance with the rules. In addition, next year we will have to find and confirm the selection of four new constitutional judges, and then in the next two years two. In the short term, it will virtually replace the entire composition of the defenders of constitutionality and legality. After interviews with candidates for a constitutional judge, after consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and after public presentations by the candidates, the President of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for two candidates, the State-Court-Electorial Commission confirmed both of them and the final decision is on us, of course. Let me first say that the Desus Group trusts the assessment and judgement of the President of the State, so both candidates will receive our support from Dr Špelec Mežnar and Marko Šorli. It is true, however, that and is still the decision of the President of the State to propose a candidate to the post of Constitutional Judges this time, has received a type of criticism. The criticisms focused on both age or youth, professional competence or work experience as well as the political views of candidates. Members of Desus do not intend to politicise all of this, since it is evident that both candidates fulfil all the conditions for the application, are professionally qualified, both of them demonstrate and have a great deal of involvement in the performance of this venerable function. Let me repeat, Members and Members of the Desus Group, we will support both the proposals sent to the National Assembly by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u269	The word is given by the SMC Group, for which Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Kovac, colleagues and colleagues! The vote for both candidates for the Constitutional Judge is secret and, as usual, in the SMC Group, we will not give a public and nominal explanation of our support. We are certainly following what we have said or said on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre to the President of the Republic, and I also report that it respected what has been transferred on our behalf, even in both cases of candidacy. Let me take this opportunity to report on how we understand and see the role of the Constitutional Court and Constitutional Judges in the democratic political system of the Republic of Slovenia in the Modern Centre Party and also in the Group of the Modern Centre. Constitutional judges play the role of supreme judges in the event of a dilemma, ambiguity, a need to clarify constitutional material and content. Each of us faces dilemmas every day in different forms either at personal level or at the level of our own family, groups to which we belong, at the level of the system in which we are. In fact, we are solving this dilemma with full responsibility and confidence. With the knowledge that we are going through, with the experience we have, and in the final stage also with a worldview of the world and of the society that we are going through with each other. When we solve these problems as individuals or as members of a community, we can do so in person or, if you want, in private, in an interesting way. However, when the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges do so, they must do so in the public interest and in the public good. This means that, with their approach to work, with their knowledge, experience and also, I will say, the balance of a value-based view of the world, the world of the future, they must do their utmost to judge open constitutional matter in such a way as to provide an appropriate explanation and to allow for the healthy and open development of society in the future. In this way we trust, believe and at the same time understand the weight of the responsibility that both new constitutional judges will bear for citizens and citizens and for the country of the Republic of Slovenia in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u271	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic to elect a judge and a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, mag. Bojana Muršič, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? We're moving to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? Then you can tell. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, President. I oppose this because our Group of Members is the third largest group of Members and has not yet participated in the Commission in these votes in these two years, so instead of one of the members, I propose Uroš Pikla.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u273	Before I answer anything, Mr Matjaž Han has the procedural word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u274	We'll figure it out soon, President. We, as a small client, give up on Desus, so he can have a candidate, Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u275	Instead of mags. Bojane Muršič is therefore a candidate, Mr Uroš Prikl. We are now voting on this list. Please be careful. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 2. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed candidates will be elected if they are voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 21:00 and 15 minutes and will last until 21:00 and 30 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 21:00 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u276	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a closed 24th point, two proposals by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge and a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read both records. First, the minutes on the findings of the vote on the election of Dr Špelce Mežnar as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 12 July 2016. 88 ballots were distributed, 88 votes cast, 8 votes invalid, 80 votes valid, 71 votes in favour, 9 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Špelca Mežnar was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. And the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of Mr Mark Šorli as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 12 July 2016. 88 ballots were distributed, 88 votes cast, five votes invalid, 83 votes valid, 60 votes in favour, 23 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Marko Šorli was elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. I ask the elected judge and judge to join us. She'll be the first to swear by Dr. Speltz Mežnar. I ask Dr. Špelco Mežnar, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u277	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u278	I congratulate the elected Constitutional Judges and wish her a successful job. If you want, you can talk to the choir.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u279	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for your election. To the same extent as I do, I personally consider today's vote to express confidence in the knowledge and ability of the young generation. My job in the coming years is to prove that we are worthy of this trust. I'm aware of my great responsibilities. Today is a very nice day. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u280	Now I ask Mr Mark Šorli, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to join us and swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u281	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u282	I congratulate the elected Constitutional Judge and wish him a successful job. If you want, you can talk to the choir.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! I thank you for your confidence and I assure you that I will make every effort to justify this. I will also try to convince those who may have doubted and gain their confidence in their work as a constitutional judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u284	We are moving on to the proposal for the appointment of members of the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 51 votes against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving to the Proposal for the election of a judicial function to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the Assembly a proposal on the election to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mark Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u285	Dear Members and Members! On the basis of constitutional powers, the Council proposes the election of Domna Horvat to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj with the envisaged allocation to the judicial area. Let me briefly base the proposal. From the actual needs of the unoccupied and above-average seats in this court, the Supreme Court has called for this court seat, which has 21 candidates. The Council of Justice examined the document and interviewed nine candidates. On the basis of the call for documentation, the opinion of the President of the Court, the personal presentations and the answers to the individual questions, the Court of Justice concluded that candidate Domen Horvat is positively leaving among the candidates declared due to excellent expertise in the civil, material and procedural field, a very good working ability that enables him to make very effective use of the knowledge acquired in solving the most demanding first-degree requirements. The Council of Justice thus assessed that Domen Horvat, of all candidates, is the most suitable candidate for judicial service at the District Court in Kranj and therefore proposes him to the National Assembly for election to judicial office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-07-12-SDZ7-Redna-21.ana.u286	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mr Domn Horvat to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I interrupt this agenda item as well as the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
