ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned 25th meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2015. We are moving on to a debate on the Commission's assessments and findings and views and on the proposal for a decision submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, as part of the rest of the time. The speaker has the floor. Here you go, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! It is somewhat unusual that the hall is so empty when it comes to the most important topic that transforms Europe. The tragic event we witnessed just a few hours ago in Berlin – 12 are dead, 48 very badly wounded, was a terrorist attack using a truck and according to Angela Merkel, who just had a press conference, was supposed to be an asylum-maker – is in some way an introduction that no one would have wanted, in what is today, is a matter of security, of control and of respect for human rights. The Commission has drawn its conclusions in a number of views, and I stress this, in particular, that they were confirmed unanimously by all the members who were at the meeting at the time and that they were members of all the groups or parties represented in the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services I run. This consensus, of course, reflects the importance of these views and at the same time I hope that this will also be the basis for our further joint work. Because when it comes to security, there can obviously be no more compromises in the modern world and should not be. Today, Europe is facing a security challenge far greater than ever before. Slovenia is part of Europe and we can therefore repeat the sentence. Today – and in 2015, for which we are considering the report – Slovenia faces the greatest security challenges since the period of the self-sustaining war ahead, that is to say the duration of its existence. The migrant crisis and the terrorism of the Islamic extremists, who clapped into Europe and unfortunately now has tragically reached where they were most invited, is also said in Berlin in 2015, the topic that the Commission devoted most of its meetings to. In 2015, about 400,000 migrants, illegal migrants, went through Slovenia. The story later continued with a few more ten thousand in 2016, and then this road closed. Before that, of course, migrants came to Europe in a legal way, and today we are witnessing what is called a dispersed arrival, that is, an arrival in smaller groups. They're being intercepted at the border a lot, then discovered in different trucks, like they did a few days ago. Unfortunately, this is a story that can be further sharpened. Not just by acts like what we witnessed to him, and I'm sorry you can believe it won't be the last. On the other hand, by the arrival of new groups. The new groups are now using mainly the Mediterranean route, the migration of migrants to Italy is greater than ever before, and here we should also say something serious about the field of foreign policy and security. Because you can trust me that Italy will come through the European Union and say, now increase the quotas, we are overwhelmed by migrants Sorry, why are you importing them? [[…]] Stop inviting them and defend your borders. This is something that should be done by all of Europe in order for things like what we have witnessed to them to stop happening. Europe should start consistently defending its borders, implementing its legislation, because if legislation were to be implemented, and the Schengen Agreement as a whole anything else that governs this area could not have happened at all. None of that. Everything was actually illegal, and what is happening with quotas now is illegal, because under international agreements in the first safe country, everyone who wants asylum should apply for it. In Europe, it is the principle that the first country to enter will decide on behalf of everyone, not that it will spread around, and then you have a problem in your territory. And then there are tragedies like we just witnessed in Berlin. All of this has been pointed out on the committee, we have pointed out the possibility that the asylum-seekers will also, of course, also radical Islamists, terrorists, and at least two are now known to have come through Slovenia. They were directly involved in the attacks in Paris, at least six others had already been arrested, three in Austria, three in Germany, those going through Slovenia. So, it is undeniable for eight of them to have gone through Slovenia, that the Commission's warnings were justified, for more than ten it is still being investigated. However, I would like to point out in particular that this danger is now greater than ever before. In fact, the Islamic state is before the break, the military is defeated, defeated, and this is the moment I specifically warned of. Now they will use all the means to come to Europe in one way or another, and if ever, Europe should now consistently implement all its regulations, close its external borders for all illegal migrants and, of course, consistently exercise control and, within itself, find all the cells of radical Islam and remove them appropriately, otherwise it will not work. Europe must not, as someone has said, be accustomed to living with terrorism, unfortunately one of the leaders. Europe must be a friendly, secure institution. There must be an appropriate international link in which people will love to live, and it must ensure the well-being, security and respect of human rights for all its citizens and citizens, without exception. This has been dedicated to our work, which is covered in the suggestions of the positions before you. In addition to dealing with terrorism and security, we did a number of other things in 2015. We were dealing with, say, the question of what happened to the arbitration agreement. You know the arbitration agreement hasn't had a proper epilogue yet, and neither has that story. We said more about this in a closed session, open for certain reasons, I hope you don't understand. We have exercised respect for human rights when it comes to the use of specific methods and means. Three: when it comes to the Owl, when it comes to the ODS, it is called the Security Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence, and the Police. With regard to Owl and ODS, we can say that cooperation on their part was exemplary. The errors found were then also experienced by an appropriate epilogue replacing one of the ministers. However, when it comes to the police issue, the matter is a little more complex. There we have dealt with the Tetra issue, which is in the open part of the session I cannot explain in more detail, but there we have encountered a problem that you all know through the public, this is the story of Ornig. There the question of the so-called intelligence service or intelligence activity of the criminal service, which is involved in the supervision of various social networks and then electronic communication in one form or another, opened up, a border area where their associates, such as Ornig, were involved. We are therefore firmly convinced that this area, too, must in some way be under proper control because there is no other control. This is not a matter for judicial decisions and must be ensured by our commission. Unfortunately, on the other hand, they understand this differently, and as a result, we also have a number of difficulties in obtaining documents, which you are probably familiar with and in some ways is still an ongoing problem. In 2015, on a proposal from the Commission, the National Assembly adopted virtually unanimously, I think without a vote against it, including the view that it was necessary to substantially increase the funds earmarked for the military, for the police, for all those services involved in the field of security in one way or another, including civil protection, clearly, and that in this area it is necessary to change the policy due to the security challenge which was reopened in Berlin yesterday. This issue is as current today or even more so than it was. There was some work done, some resources, especially for the police, were increased. Unfortunately for all others, we remain far from the beginning, especially the issue of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is completely undernourished, does not even have adequate ammunition in sufficient quantities, and then, of course, the issue of services which are much less operational than in comparable European countries. And here, we have not witnessed any major changes in funding or funding, unfortunately. As a result, the Commission also notes that this decision has only been implemented to a lesser extent and should still be properly implemented. So much for the opening part. Once again, I would end up with what I personally think is most important — all the views, all the conclusions that you have received in writing and are public, were adopted in full agreement. This is a way of working that reflects the collective will of all members and members of the Commission, which I therefore particularly thank them for, that when it comes to security issues, when it comes to issues of respect for human rights, when it comes to issues of constitutionality and legality, there must be no compromise and there must be no doubt, but security is one and the only and only one, and we must do everything we can to ensure to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to the greatest extent possible, while safeguarding human rights in a consistent manner. On behalf of all the members and members of the Commission, I guarantee that we will also do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	In my debate, I would like to touch on three areas, one way or another, which are linked to the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services or to the provision of security in a broader sense in Slovenia, namely the situation in the Balkans, migration and terrorism and arbitration. With regard to the Balkans, we have been able to observe recently that quite unpleasant things are happening. At the time of this report, 2015, the attack took place in Macedonia in Kumanovo, followed by the publication of all these hearings, which had created a very political situation in Macedonia. They now held early elections, but the situation in Macedonia certainly does not change. If we add political tensions to this in Montenegro, where the position and coalition cannot be agreed even on the holding of the meetings, if we add to this considerable tension due to the Islamic radicalisation in Bosnia, the arms found near the house of the Serbian Prime Minister and an extremely unpredictable Croatia, then we can all find together that the Balkans are still a great barrel of powder. That is why in the New Slovenia Group, we want all intelligence and security services to pay special attention to this area and follow it closely, because this is also extremely important to ensure wider security for Slovenia. We have certain options here, we also have certain competitive advantages over other Western European services, and our proposal would be to work even more intensively in this area. As far as migration and terrorism are concerned, much has already been said today. When half a million migrants passed through Slovenia, two terrorists were surely confirmed in this group. If we look at the story that is happening in the Middle East, we can see that the Islamic State is under complete pressure, in defense, so I think they are also triggering certain retaliation measures. One of these is definitely this attack yesterday in Berlin, the second murder or murder of the Russian ambassador in Ankara, and if you add to it then Marseille, Brussels and Paris, you get a rather unpleasant picture. Greater efforts will also have to be made in this area. Compared to us, Western European services have gone to increase budgets for services for additional employment. This has not happened in Slovenia, but we note, of course, that without money, without resources, it is not possible to provide adequate security. Of course, you'll get a lot of calls and you'll say yes, but the problem has to be solved at source. I certainly agree, but until it is resolved at its source, it is important that we do our utmost to ensure that citizens are as safe as possible. And the last, third set I said I'd talk about is arbitration. I'm afraid arbitration will be an unsuccessful episode in Slovenian history. It is clear that since the signing of the arbitration agreement, it has not been in the interest of the Croats to conclude the arbitration process at any time. I am convinced that they have made enormous efforts, both from the point of view of security and intelligence services as well as through diplomatic and political channels, to discredit this arbitration and in some way bring it down. Judge Sekolec was an extremely experienced judge, he knew what he could not do, and the fundamental question was why he called, why he was communicating with our agent Drennikov. My assessment is that Judge Seklec has cooperated voluntarily or forcibly with Croatian intelligence services. I can certainly say that Croatia has outplayed us in this case, directed the whole game themselves, created everything themselves, but in the end, internationally and even through diplomatic channels, it was as if we were responsible for all of this. Therefore, it is not likely that the words of former Prime Minister Milanović, who said that a special award should be given to the former Director of Intelligence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. In a way, we can say that it is ironic that today we are considering the Commission's report on the supervision of intelligence and security services, when a new terrorist attack took place almost yesterday. A new terrorist attack, which is certainly also linked to how individual services operate in all these countries facing migration problems, and not least to how security and control issues are addressed and systems when it comes to the so-called migration route. Therefore, allow me to also stop myself at point 4 of the conclusions of the said Commission, whose report we are considering today. Indeed, several times we have warned the Commission and Members, particularly the SDS, in the National Assembly that everything must be done to protect the safety of our citizens and citizens and to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens as far as the European Union is concerned. Here there is certainly insistence on the implementation of Schengen one of the important segments. The fact is, and this has been pointed out several times that about half a million people have crossed Slovenia and that control here, however we want to turn now, has not been perfect. We actually don't know who crossed this country, things were going very fast. Let me remind you of the dilemmas when we first visited the so-called road through Slovenia in Rigonca, where we also talked to the police there, who said that, practically, I don't know, after 30 individual migrants, he gives the same data. It says one name, and then everyone else had the same names, just what letter they changed because they actually knew there was no control. Well, and also because these controls weren't what they were supposed to be, what's happening today is happening. Unfortunately, it went off in Berlin yesterday, and it's probably an asylum. That's just the last piece of information. It was similar in Paris or elsewhere. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, please? Nice, too, but Paris had before that, so the fact is that here we are all facing serious problems together and that the fourth conclusion of the Commission is more than important and that it is also at the National Assembly to do everything we can to protect our citizens and citizens. So it's supposed to be some kind of marriage, a change of law. I have heard that the biggest problem is precisely in coalition parties to take really strict measures that will enable the country to carry out this control successfully. This fourth point is also linked to the 13th point. Here, of course, we are talking about the undernutrition of the security and intelligence system, about the undernutrition of the security system, about the situation in the Slovenian Army, we have spoken several times. You all know that we have changed the Defence Act precisely to help Slovenian soldiers at the crisis hotspot if the so-called "should or should have happened" and that we have done almost nothing in this area. The police did receive the supplement, they were taken care of, while the so-called Slovenian Army did not. And that's still the thing that stays open. The Commission also points out that it is not realistic, in full course, because I mentioned it; that the police are financially exempt from this and have been financially assisted, but not all the other groups that affect our security and the intelligence sector. And this decision is not implemented. The funds are of great importance to these areas. And today, given that the government is stressing positive growth, it is talking about higher revenue on expenditure, sharing a new day off or working off, it would be fundamental to think about what is going on in these areas. For if something like this happens in Slovenia tomorrow, it will be too late to deal with whether the individual information and security sector had sufficient quality human resources, whether they had sufficient resources to carry out their work, and not least, whether all authorities could even perform their functions. Let me point out once again here, which I find really critical, and this is that Slovenian soldiers prefer to stay at home and give up work on the ground because this allows them to marry when it comes to a young family, only because if they are on the ground, they do not receive travel costs and travel costs are a source of important income for them to spend a month. We have come so far in specific areas. And you know, sharing candy on the other hand doesn't take care of one, I would say, in these security situations, actually the primary sector, with some others, does not promise anything good. I'm just afraid that in the end we'll find out that the accomplice or even the perpetrator in Berlin has followed the so-called Slovenian route and the Balkan route. Then there will be another question and a new black point for Slovenia. The fact is that, while new arrivals of migrants are being announced, it is very important that we are very careful in this regard, that we do our utmost to increase this control and, of course, that we are more successful at doing so. As it is said, it is no longer just about us, it is also about our fellow citizens, and not least, our citizens live in all these countries. There are quite a few challenges ahead of us, and indeed, perhaps fate today wanted us to have this report on the table just as a new terrorist attack took place in our Europe. I hope that the Government will also listen here to the so-called Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, which in its conclusions has also said what should be strengthened, and things should be changed. Unfortunately, as has been said, some conclusions have not been realized, but some are still waiting. I believe that the National Assembly will also support these conclusions because the operation of these services is necessary, but of course they must not be exploited or abused for any other areas which do not deal with this work or with the primary tasks of this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the word to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you, Vice President. Today we are looking at the validation of the report on the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services for 2015. We know we have the Owl, we have the intelligence service, and we have the police or the criminal police. So all of these three parts are controlled by our commission, controlled within the limits, in accordance with the powers we have. Many times it is a dilemma, since we know that these services are also used in specific methods of their work, by which they collect data at home and abroad, and sometimes the question is whether these measures are necessary, necessary and so on. Unfortunately, your concerns and your thoughts are in between. However, it is important to ask ourselves whether these measures are effective or whether services implement measures effectively in terms of legality, are necessary and proportionate. If all these questions are to be answered, then we need to know the operation of these services, from staff, skills, technical resources, the use of all these funds and without funding, unfortunately, it is not possible. And that knowledge is important. Our Commission, as the supervisory body of our Parliament, as the legislative branch of the Authority, has the power to control and control all their functioning and procedures and methods. This kind of control that we are carrying out, I must say, is still necessary because, as it has been heard several times today, we only know what security means when security is no longer available. I think that we are living in situations that surround us, the situation in Europe and beyond, that perhaps not enough is possible, that we are conscious of a significant lack of seriousness and that we are devoting ourselves to serious work, as far as security is concerned, not enough attention. [[…]] On this occasion, I am confident that all the leaders or leaders of these services will take this well - meaningly, seriously. I believe they are aware of the gravity of the situation. And on this occasion, I must also say that the professionalism that I expect from employees in all these services is crucial. Professionalism, I repeat, is crucial. We know, we've also witnessed some anonymous letter, obviously staff, and such things, I think, are unacceptable. At the head of each job is a person, any person, and the task is to take care of the order, the professionality, and that everyone performs the task entrusted to him. I must stress what has already been heard by the President of the Commission in our work on this committee, whether it be opposition or coalition, there have been no major differences, because we are all aware of what security means if we are not here together, because our task is to ensure security for our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I appreciate that our conclusions that we have adopted over the course of the year have been useful both for the government and for these individual services, for which it is our responsibility to supervise them, and that it has only been well-intentioned and I am sure that a lot of things have happened and then upgraded also because of our conclusions, our warnings that have been well-intentioned. Finally, I would like only to appeal to all the services, all the three of them, to take part well in a way that is well-intentioned to cooperate actively with our committee. I'm not saying that you didn't cooperate, but at some point cooperation was great, at some point it's a little less good, but in some parts it's a little bit less complicated. But I am sure and I appeal that in the future we will work even better together, because our common goal is the same. But there's something we need to know. Every thing comes out. There's no secret. So I'm sure we'll be doing even better in the future than we have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Franz Duck and Mr. Jean Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to the president, to the colleagues and to all who accompany this meeting! I think these conclusions are of course important, but I believe that in exercising the powers of the Commission to supervise the intelligence and security services, we must also take into account the provisions of the law governing the parliamentary investigation in this case. And control, i.e. Article 5 of this Act, is the second paragraph, which sets the scope and subject of control. This should be taken into account and also provided for in Article 4, paragraph 4, of this Act, which may be subject to supervision in the case of security services in general. The Commission therefore controls the overall activity of intelligence services, but when it comes to security services, it monitors individual measures, namely the so-called covert investigation measures. Here we have often had the opportunity to talk yes — no, but I would warn that jurisdiction, scope and subject matter of supervision should be taken into account, even when it comes to this commission. Therefore, if we go to look at some of the tasks, the proposal for an investigation and therefore exercise control or exceed our powers, then there is a danger that we reach into the competence of another competent authority, another branch of authority, and I do not think that this should happen so that we should not go beyond those powers that we have in law, in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, etc. Because sometimes you try to make it feel like KNOVS is the only one who controls security and intelligence services. Of course not. The Owl is controlled by the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, I don't know who all of them are. In individual proceedings, each individual shall also have legal remedies before a court, so that the KNOVS is not the first and the last before which everything ends. Yes, of course, parliamentary supervision – I also participate as a member of the KNOVS – but within the framework of the powers. Perhaps only if I mention that I have a problem with one of the conclusions that says that law enforcement authorities have used their powers in the case of investigations against politicians to intimidate these policies. I really cannot agree with such a claim, because the investigation initiated by the court is an investigation in which the Criminal Procedure Act and the Penal Code require that the conditions be met. And I think that, in doing so, we cannot insist on this decision, the decision is adopted, but as we have said, we can continue to discuss in our position what the powers of the Commission to control intelligence and security services are and whether in fact some things fall within our competence. Of course, I'll support the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Trcek, report to Mr. Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. See, given the short time available before, someone mentioned fate; I do not believe in fate, I believe in appropriate or inadequate policies. [[…]] Most of what we discussed in the open, closed session today is the result of failed policies, both global and in this society and country. On a global level, we have often held the pot together and I will say that some simplified solutions proposed throughout the political spectrum only point to misunderstandings. There are no simple solutions and there will be no solutions. These matters will be dealt with by this political generation, probably some other behind us. In Slovenia we are unfortunately or fortunately fortunate to be the most dangerous to ourselves, especially in politics. My personal opinion is that these services, which we oversee, not only do we, as colleague Murgel has said before me, need cleansing, rejuvenation and a good consideration of the proportionality of their operation within the legal framework. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Marjan, I'd like to ask you, you have a very deep voice, by the way. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Hainz. Colleagues and colleagues, Director Klemenčič, Mr. Chief! Of course, I agree with all the conclusions we have drawn in the Commission in the 13 points of this report. I also agree with the two proposals for conclusions that we will vote on today. This is the result and fruit of the joint work of this commission, both by the coalition and by the opposition. When I read the reports back and when I listened to older colleagues who were already members of this committee, what serious problems they had in previous mandates – that they had virtually no control, because we know that control can be announced or unannounced, but in both cases the seizure must be mixed, at least three Members, with both coalition and opposition represented – I can express satisfaction, despite having had many problems forming this commission. In that part of late 2014, until, I think, at the December meeting, even on the last day of the December 2014 meeting, the Commission was finally formed, in this mandate at the beginning of the Government of Mir Cerar, even without supervision, since no other working body of this Parliament has the powers such as the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. I have heard from the predecessor that the KNOVS is not the only one controlling intelligence and security services, that we have the Supreme Court, that we have the Ombudsman and so on. I certainly agree with this, but it is worth recalling one of the Commission's petitions meetings and the human rights and equal opportunities to which the Director of the Sove Mag has also been invited. Zoran Klemenčich. I recall his words when I asked him what the supervision of services by the Ombudsman was, and he replied, "no authority can control intelligence and security services as effectively as the Commission can do to control intelligence and security services," which just confirms that this body is important. We would like more powers because often the authorities under our supervision, given the situation in which they are located and according to the subject under consideration by the KNOVS, explain in their own way what our powers are and determine. We hear so often that the KNOVS is solely responsible for viewing the correctness or existence of orders, and everything else should not be of interest to us and should not be competent. Here it is worth noting that we have no problems with cooperation, nor with the intelligence and security services, nor with the Owl, but in the Commission we have serious difficulties in working with the Police, especially with the Criminal Police Department, which we have already discussed publicly at the meeting. And this subject continues to drag on. The Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission has found that there are secret rules on how to use covert investigative methods, who can be a co-worker, how external employees or resources use this, and in particular that there is a rule on how this activity is financed. And when the Intelligence and Security Supervisory Commission asked the Police for this Regulation, it did not receive it or it received a regulation the way the Police explained that the Commission was competent. In short, we've got a rule where things are crossed out or darkened, so it's all a victory from which you find it difficult or virtually impossible to understand, but what are the rules that are followed and by which the hidden investigation methods, means, techniques and all other activities are used. And if the KNOVS – here we are Members who are laymen, here we are not the ones who have ever been employed in intelligence services, and we depend primarily on whether we believe in word or not in intelligence and security services, we are dependent on the media if a story ever comes into the public, and if there is ever an anonymous one or if someone in the internal system of these services gives any information to any of the Members. So here we would like the Members to be aware of what the internal rules are. It's not some sort of internal act, but it's a general legal act. We've talked about this before, and I hope we can get rid of this mess as soon as possible. Because, you know what's essential and most interesting? Members of the coalition and the opposition once again unanimously decided to have the police deliver these documents so that we can have Members look into this. And this once again proves this cooperation between the coalition and the opposition at some point, at some level, where we certainly agree that there must be no parallel rule of law or secret acts. For we came out of this in 1991 and should not repeat and return that citizens do not know what the methods are, because this applies to citizens and citizens, how cases such as Ornig are financed, and other colleagues who are supposed to be a few hundred in these services. And that's control, too. Not only orders, but everything about the operation of the notified services in terms of the use of disguised investigative methods and means. The rule that dictates how this should be applied is how interesting and subject-matter it is, not to get it covered up. From this point of view, my call, once again, to the Administration of the Criminal Police or the Police to deliver us with the rules we need, we want and, of course, we can also see. There was a lot of talk today, and here I fully agree with Dr. Franc Trčko, who always raises the problem – we also talk about this problem at KNOVS meetings – and that is money and a human resources pool. We have a lot of problems in this area. Not enough resources are allocated to security and intelligence services. We know what the state of the Owl, the state of the ODS, is, in addition to not being all materialistic or financial resources, much is involved in the internal atmosphere of the service. Personally, I am deeply concerned when we read a variety of anonymities about what is happening within the Soviet Union when some concerned officials of the Soviet Union seem to be desirous of destroying the director of mags. Klemenčič – and, of course, the previous ones, since we are not the first to witness this – serve such and different anonymities. This, of course, makes the job worse both public and human resources. Not to mention problems that we ourselves hear a great deal about as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly when Members abroad ask us or warn us that they also come to them abroad and other fellow Members from other European countries, who are also members of the Commissions for the supervision of these services, that they have problems themselves because the reputation of these services is inconceivable because they do not receive information as they should be. In short, a few things in these anonymouss are definitely true. Of course, there are some puffed-up, even bloated ones, but you feel that those who should take care of our security in a way that citizens and citizens know or know how to do it instead of dealing with themselves, instead of dealing with something else. In particular, if it is true that the terrorist attack that took place today in Berlin caused a migrant who was supposed to come to Germany in February – this means that he probably went across Slovenian territory – citizens would expect that the intelligence and security services are not so busy with how someone is going to collapse or set up in a particular service, but that they will deal with how to detect, identify and then also prevent the transition to such a potential terrorist who has changed, I do not know how many names he has represented with different identities across different Member States. If this is confirmed, what is now being said, Slovenia will list someone else who has committed a terrorist attack and has peacefully crossed our territory. Unfortunately, as I am aware, we have not rejected anyone in this migratory crisis. Except for the fact that we have informed a few ten people that they are potentially of interest, we have not rejected anyone at the border. More than that, when we were Members at the border, when we saw those forms that they had all put forward in the European Union, we saw Pakistan, Algeria, Iran, and in short, countries where there were no armed conflicts, where there was no danger, yet we all from A to Z, without any security checks or at least some stricter criteria, to Slovenia. Because if we really adhere to the rules, probably people who were from Pakistan, Algeria, Morocco and what I know, which safe countries all would certainly not have moved forward into the Schengen area, and today we would not have these problems. And even now, given the previous terrorist attacks in France, in Nice, now in Brussels, I think there were 300, if not more, fatalities, Europeans in a year. In short, those who have opened the European door to Islam, those who have opened the European door wide to illegal migrants, are uncritically accepted, the mirror is now being planted and the person would expect someone to take responsibility for such a wrong policy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have constantly warned about this, we have had many meetings of committees covering this security area. Unfortunately, none of our conclusions have been taken into account. In order to ensure greater security for citizens and citizens, we have also proposed strengthening asylum legislation, even in this area we have been rejected. To send a clear message that Slovenia is a country based on European and Western civilisation, which respects gender equality, which respects freedom and democracy and which does not tolerate such and other violence against women, we have proposed to prevent the wearing of burks. We have also been rejected here, but now we see that European countries are already thinking and that they will start to impose a ban on wearing a burka, which is not only a symbol of Islam, which is by no means part of this European space, but is also a symbol of some religion, some ideology, which is famous for the fact that, above all, in the countries of the Middle East, it is a symbol of human rights, that it denies gender equality, that it treats women as slaves, that it does not recognize their fundamental human rights. This is a burka, ladies and gentlemen. This is this symbol of all of this, which is why we proposed a ban in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but unfortunately there was no hearing for it at the time. Many other issues have been addressed by the Commission, many things we have heard, even strictly confidential, if I may say, state secrets, and none of these information has ever come out of the Commission, because we are committed to silence and we take this into account. And it makes no sense for the police to have fear or fear that any of the members will issue anything and that they will not give us, or give us, the documents that we demand, either when we have meetings of the commission or when we are in foresight or unannounced control. This report, which we have before us today, and it concludes that the Government should take us into account in this too, of course, because the conclusions have been adopted by all, are only a clear message that we are aware of the potential dangers. Unfortunately, however, I see in the National Assembly – as is seen above all in the conclusions and proposals proposed by the opposition, both the legislative acts and, for example, when we proposed the amendments to the budget – that the positions are different as to how we will implement these conclusions and those recommendations. Although we have already accepted in 2015 that more, significantly more, financial resources should be provided for the operation of intelligence and security services, unfortunately the Government has not taken this into account, and we would like to finally start in the future also in this sector, which has been in the past few years due to savings and the economic and financial crisis, and we can say to ourselves, to a large extent, to invest back. And given what we now see happening across Europe, what happened yesterday in Berlin, when a migrant seduced the truck and apparently followed the instructions given by Daesh or the Islamic State to use any means from weapons to means of transport to what I know of possible forms of violence to carry out terrorist attacks, the only question is how many more such people have come to Slovenia through this migratory wave to Europe, and how many more have come to the point that the Islamic State has said among these half-million migrants who will be sent to Europe in 2015 to carry out terrorist attacks. I don't blame intelligence here. You know, the easiest thing to say is that the intelligence services have failed. Intelligence is operating in secret, and we are not even aware of how many terrorist attacks they prevent, how many such and different actions there are with which we see on television and we understand from the media that they have broken the terrorist cell. Intelligence and security services, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to criticize when we are alone or will create ideal conditions for their work, which is not now. Uncritically admit migrants, accepting a million people who are clearly aware that there are a significant number of both potential and terrorists among them, and then saying that the intelligence and security services have been denied, knowing that, for example, France has serious problems because there should be 8 000 people in France alone who have to be covered by intelligence services – such a policy is irresponsible both to intelligence services and to citizens not only to the Republic of Slovenia, but to the whole of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Šefic, gets the floor. Here you are, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In view of the fact that Mrs Murgel has already very well defined some of the dilemmas that have been exposed to both open and closed sessions today, allow me only two, three things as an additional explanation. Firstly, it has to be said that — and I would not want to make any wrong impression — the police or the Ministry of the Interior do not want to control the work of our security service, that is, the police. On the contrary. It is not only necessary for the protection of human rights and, of course, for all powers to be exercised within the framework of legal powers, but we also expect control to have a quality contribution, says it, to draw attention to weaknesses, to weaknesses, and, of course, on this basis, we can build, not least, legislation that we will talk about this afternoon. Of course, this supervision of an institution — of course today we are talking about parliamentary control — must be to the extent that it is legally defined and in a manner that is legally defined. Here it is true, this has to be said, there have been some discussions on this subject. I think that we will say another word with the Commission in order to somehow bridge this, because it is important that this basic and key task of this Commission be carried out. Whether these powers - I think Mr Mahnic has mentioned this - are sufficient for the work of this Commission, which has already been discussed in the past. In this case, I will say my opinion exclusively, I think that this Commission would certainly need some other professional colleagues, experts and so on, there is no doubt about that. In the first place, it is a matter of Parliament to agree on this, but if we think in this direction, I see no problems, not even in terms of assistance. But as it is said, this is primarily a matter of parliament. Another time. I would like to say that the police are being monitored, especially when we are talking about specific investigative measures and in the pre-trial procedure, of course, both by the prosecution, which is leading and directing the pre-trial procedure, and by the investigating judge, through whom all decisions are then examined, and, of course, later in the proceedings themselves, and any errors may also be rectified. And I must say here that I also agree with Mrs Murgel. Each proposal or initiative to introduce an individual measure must provide a standard of reasonable cause for doubt and, of course, it must also be within the framework of a constitutional decision, I think, from 1995 – which very precisely defines these elements. Of course, this intervention must be proportionate and, of course, that in some other way, it is referred to as the classical powers of the Police, which cannot be done. I would also like to point out that, of course, we are talking about a security service, which is the Police, which has its internal organisational units, such as the Directorate of the Criminal Police, the National Investigation Office and so on. And the basic, which we justify – and the police justify – some of their decisions and views; of course, it must be based, as it were said, on a law that very clearly defines and distinguishes the controlled activity of the intelligence service and the supervised measures of the security service, and then also defines how this is carried out in the law below. Whether that's enough or not, of course, I'm not going down right now. The problem of migration was also mentioned. I think that we have talked extremely much about migration in the past period, including very carefully explaining all the circumstances; also the regulated migration flow, the illegal migration we are facing today, including the approaches we are facing in the case of the migration flows already mentioned, including the basics for such action. Of course, we have also found this in other sessions, this was an exceptional situation, within which, I can say, we have done the maximum, and this is also recognised by other countries today. The fact is that because of the good work of our police and because we have all the data, because we have data on these people, fingerprints, images, other data that we collected at the time for an extremely large percentage of all the migration flows, we now very quickly and efficiently identify certain persons and then, in cooperation with foreign services, we find out if they pose a threat to our national security or security, I will say, our common European Union. The fact is that all the measures that we are implementing today are going in the direction of securing the Schengen area. The Schengen is our important value, not only from a political and security perspective, but also from an economic perspective, and it is also important that all these measures, including those we propose and of which I believe we will continue to speak, constitute some kind of better, more effective tool to protect this area. I must also say that the Republic of Slovenia has also rejected migrants, for some security reasons, and for this reason we have also had some challenges over a period of time, which we have successfully resolved. In short, I will not be too long and not to repeat myself, by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and of course the Government is absolutely prepared that, as has been pointed out many times today, in cooperation and together we will do everything necessary to ensure that the functioning of the entire national security system will be effective, legal and, of course, that this cooperation will then produce the results we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. In this conclusion, the proposer of mags also gets the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thanks again for saying that. I'll continue where he put the government's representative's starting point. He said he wanted proper and creative cooperation. And with all my responsibility, I claim that it was, even if at some point it might not look like it was. Since its creation, the work of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services has been effective and very effective. After just four months of our work, one Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was replaced because of our findings and this was our help to the Government and the ruling coalition to make order in its kind and ensure consistent respect for constitutionality and legality. On our proposal, on the proposal of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, the National Assembly adopted positions which meant that a change in security policy was required, that security should be put first and that more resources should be provided in order to ensure security; both for the military, the police and security intelligence services and all others involved in the area of security. This decision has been confirmed virtually unanimously and also here, if you are, in particular, because you are a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, the police have been taken over. So when it comes to the issue of your work, of support to you, there was a hundred percent support from the Commission on Sunday, and I am glad that the National Assembly listened to it as well. The government has also listened to this, and in fact it has earmarked significantly more resources for the police than it has so far. Unfortunately, both intelligence services and, of course, the Slovenian Armed Forces and other services related to this area will remain under their care. Here this conclusion, unfortunately, has not yet been realized and we expect on behalf of the Commission, this is also one of today's views that it will still be. An unfortunate story, a tragic story that happened yesterday, is just an additional incentive to listen to the Commission’s warnings and continue to do so. For everything else, there has always been proper cooperation on our part. We can only find that no document, no particular confidential confidential information, which has been shown or given to the Commission, has gone public. Therefore, of course, let's say that when we ask something to be problematic, because then things go away When it comes to our commission, this has not happened so far, and also from this point of view to all the members and members of the Commission, which is very varied – which you can find out if you look at the names and surnames – I commend and thank you and sincerely expect such creative cooperation for the benefit of the country and responsible conduct to continue. [[…]] On my part, of course, I will do anything to make it so. In individual matters, sometimes there is a very unusual situation where I would like to, as a Member, not as President of the Commission, support, in particular, the Minister of Home Affairs, and I do not even get this opportunity. For example, when the Minister proposed an excellent amendment that the migrant who enters a safe country in Slovenia does not have the right to asylum, which is only in accordance with international rules, I certainly supported it and then the coalition voted against it, which is a very unusual situation. On the other hand, the Minister presented new proposals for law at the meeting to ensure that there is no critical situation, so that a timely action is taken, which is the only reasonable and I claim is the only constitutional one – crazy is to wait for a situation to begin and then to apply specific measures for a critical situation and additional powers; it is necessary to take action in advance to ensure that peace is ensured, to ensure prosperity – and I absolutely support the Minister here, but unfortunately, this law has not yet reached the National Assembly, because it is said to have some concerns about him by one of the ministers, specifically, the Minister of Justice, because he has some other goals in life that clearly deviate from that policy, which was confirmed by the National Assembly by that decision. But I still expect this law to be adopted, and I am certainly personally convinced, even the members of the Commission, that we will be happy to support this law, because it is fully in line with what we have been trying to do all these years, and we have rightly warned of this. When building surveillance in the service, it is important to note the stories that are now constantly leaking into the public and are not good for the security of Slovenia. These are various games, the question of how many employees are actually involved in a particular service, say, in Owl, how many are being launched by certain media under a political dictatorship, because they want to get rid of someone or someone else. But now, I'm sorry, this is not the time for games like this. At least I would expect so much judgment and responsibility from everyone. The services, if ever in history, now that the state of Slovenia faces the greatest security challenge since their inception, must be allowed and allowed to work fully, to provide them with adequate means to ensure peace of operation, and, of course, to require them to work with all their power and within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a moment that is so fateful that we may not even imagine. What happened in Berlin yesterday was just a little warning about what could happen. I pointed out earlier that we must be aware of the moment in which we live. The Islamic State, or ISIS, has been virtually defeated by military forces, has now fled massively back to the European Union against destruction and terrorists. Now that Donald Trump has been elected to America, they will certainly not go because they know what awaits them. And the European Union will have to start doing the same. We must not allow the situation faced by France or Spain and some other countries, Italy in particular, where their secret services themselves have publicly said that they cannot exercise control anymore because of the massive influx of migrants, because of all those in need of control, this is physically no longer possible. You must be aware that if, say, a troubled person is detected, this requires 5 people 24 hours a day to be adequately monitored. Now imagine letting a thousand people into the country, just because you take a nice picture, see how we're multicultures and how we're open. And then it happens to Paris, Nice, Berlin, Brussels, etc. How, then, should jobs take responsibility for this? At the same time, is it possible for the ministry to employ 5,000 new people adequately qualified to oversee all those who come because you have uncontrollablely let them in? This is the irresponsibility of this policy that we are witnessing. When, under the cover of humanism, foreign soldiers and foreign armies are actually imported into European soil and acted as irresponsiblely as never before in history. The end of all civilizations. They were uncontrolled migrations, this is all history teaches, this was the end of civilization. And that the European Union learns nothing from this and that the Slovenian Government is involved in this, unfortunately, and this is a very large and very serious security issue. People need help, but help has to be so that you don't put yourself in danger. Even on the plane, if you lose oxygen, first you put the mask on your face, then you'll help everyone around you. Every normal country will do the same, or we will find ourselves in an absurd situation where security services are running out of money and a worker who has worked for 40 years gets 400 euros in pensions, someone who illegally crosses the border and yells that he is an asylum-seekers and costs this country 2,000 euros a month after the Court of Auditors' findings. Well, that's completely absurd, that's the madness of it. That's also unconstitutional, by the way, I confirm. Apparently unconstitutional, because it's in conflict with all principles. It is therefore necessary to return things to normal constitutional criteria and water and to respect the provisions of international rules, constitutions and laws. But where it is necessary to reorganize them and confirm them in such a way as to ensure the good that we are all obliged to provide. That's security. Because safety is like health. So precious and you realize it when you lose it. It is Europe, and with it Slovenia, unfortunately at this point. As a result, this responsibility that lies ahead of us is a historical responsibility. We have also warned about this all the time in the Commission, and this, believe me, will continue to focus on the greatest emphasis in our work. That is why we expect – on our part we offer everyone cooperation and express all readiness to help, wherever and whenever it is necessary, after all, if I return to the Police, because the representative of the Ministry of the Interior spoke earlier, we now assure them and here our intervention has also been successful – on the other hand, that our work is not limited to allowing us to normally look at things, to also assess those border areas where, of course, everyone is always a little nervous and would rather see that no one looks at it. Because when it comes to security, security is one and indivisible. But security must be ensured in a way that respects human rights is also consistent and without exception. And that's our job when it comes to performing this control function. None of our proposals have been ill-intentioned, I say with all my responsibility. The vast majority of all proposals and conclusions, including all those before us today, have been adopted by the Commission in full agreement. This should, in fact, be one principle that should become an example when it comes to ensuring security at the level of Parliament as a whole, because it is a security issue, a question of prosperity that must be based on security, because otherwise it cannot exist, because it is a question of democracy that must be based on security, because it cannot exist otherwise because it is a question of respect for personal integrity, women, children, human security, once again all that cannot exist without security at all. This is our joint task, and I invite you to do what we can today, this is to confirm the proposals and conclusions that our Commission has unanimously drawn up. On our part, I guarantee the proper work and all the expertise and all the energy in our difficult control.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We've got two and a half minutes left. Is there any other desire to discuss it? No, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. No amendments to the proposal for a decision have been tabled. The national assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services today, within half an hour of the end of the 21st item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 27th item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE LEGISLATION OF HEALTH ACTIVITIES BY EXISTING PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to a representative of the Government, who unfortunately is not. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! At its 26th emergency meeting, the Health Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain health legislation as a parent. It was presented to the National Assembly by the Government and also published on the website of the National Assembly and the Rapporteur. Amendments were tabled to the bill, namely the Coalition's parliamentary groups and the Italian and Hungarian national communities. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mrs Sandra Tušar, gave the introductory explanation. She stressed that the basic objective of the proposal is to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union. The law lays down the provisions of the directive laying down the conditions of professional competence of a graduate nurse, a graduate midwife, mag. pharmacology, doctor and other dental medicine. It lays down the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreign healthcare professionals who carry out a medical activity or medical service in the Republic of Slovenia, regulates the occasional or temporary provision of health services or medical services and establishes a warning mechanism. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and has formulated a series of comments to the individual article of the proposal. The amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups take account of some of the comments. However, comments which are not taken into account relate mainly to the imprudentity of the legal order caused by the amendments to several laws. A bill amending two or more laws, the so-called omnibus, is not the most appropriate, nor is it the title of the law, from which it is not clear what the content of the bill itself is. Nor are the reasons given for the specific nomotechnic form of the bill provided. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the draft law sets out solutions already governed by the law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications. The representative of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, Tomaž Horvat, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, members of the opposition's committee stressed that a law with as many amendments as the members of the opposition had been tabled and the law was rewritten in the National Assembly. The applicant requested an urgent hearing on the grounds that Slovenia did not fulfil the obligations and tasks it would have had to carry out in time for that Directive to be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The members of the coalition's committee were also critical to the proposal for a law which, due to the time frame and possible financial consequences of the adoption at the last minute, places responsibility on the National Assembly. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, but has not adopted the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Parliamentary Group to Articles 4 and 10. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a good day at this point of the agenda! The reason for the adoption of this law is very simple, namely the transposition of part of the directive which has not yet been transposed into the Slovenian legal order concerning the profession of physician, pharmacist and nurses and midwives. As a result of the late transposition of this Directive, Slovenia is also threatened by an action by the European Commission and, consequently, by the high penalties to be paid. Again, it has been in vain to point out that the Government should ensure in due time the harmonisation and transmission of a coordinated proposal to the National Assembly, because these poor transpositions of directives or the late transposition of directives, I am speaking in all areas, not only in the field of health, but we are becoming a constant and then we are always under this time pressure of adoption. Thus, the Law amends the Law on Medical Services and the Law on Health Activities, which provide for new minimum conditions of competence for healthcare professionals subject to automatic recognition of professional qualifications. The bill also sets the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for doctors, masters of pharmacy, doctors of dental medicine and other healthcare professionals. In the proposal for a law, again by the Legislative and Legal Service, of course, we regret this, thoroughly and justifiably intervened, but the applicant has still not taken all its comments into account. And here we'll be able to get to the problem again when there's another instance of trouble. And I wonder why we actually have this job in the National Assembly if, in fact, we do not know how to formulate opinions legally and incorporate them into legislation. Following a meeting of the committee responsible, the amendments have been fairly satisfactory in correcting the language provision for doctors and other healthcare professionals, both physicians and other healthcare professionals who work directly with patients, using Slovenian language at the C1 level in the agreement. The high level of knowledge is therefore a key and also a comprehensive treatment guard in the treatment process, both between patients and doctors and between the healthcare staff themselves. We therefore support the high level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for all professional staff who come in contact with patients or not, because it is only so guaranteed that quality treatment is ensured, which unfortunately does not bring this law, since for healthcare professionals who do not work directly with patients it can be defined as the lowest level of knowledge of the Slovenian level of B2. Here comes – I don't know, I really don't understand why for one C1, for the other B2, but both are in communication with people, in direct contact with patients. Of course, in practice, healthcare professionals are also faced with cases where migration increases the number of people who do not know and use the Slovenian language, and we wonder, of course, who is responsible for the patient and the doctor to communicate properly in this case. Among other things, the law does not regulate a medium medical staff, a profession of health care. Because there is a change in the professional standard for this profession, but there remain quite a few open dilemmas to which the competent ministry, the distinguished Madam Secretary of State, unfortunately in our opinion, has not been able to respond satisfactorily. And it seems that, in fact, one part of the profession, this is high school, this law actually shuts down. There is also an open question on the other hand by the Ministry of Education, which, in my opinion, contradicts this or these things are inconsistent. So, what are we going to do with this frame, how is this frame going to be employable? We'll call it off. So here is an open question, and we expect answers in New Slovenia. Since we have not received the answers in the course of the adoption of this law so far, even for this last point, it is true that the profession has been abolished, we will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of health care. In fact, it could be said that this is a technical law, as this law implements the European Directive adopted on 20 November 2013 three years ago. We do not have a problem with content, it is true that there are some open questions, but, as it is said, because of the implementation of the European directive, we will not oppose this law in our parliamentary group. However, I would like to draw attention to the way in which this law is adopted. As it is said, the European Directive was adopted on 20 November 2013, three years ago. I wonder what and why it took the Ministry of Health three years to prepare more or less technical legislation for so long. The other thing that gets in your eyes is that we're 3. 11. 2016 by Government, signed mag. Liljana Kozlović, Secretary-General, received a letter where the Government proposes to us this: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the bill be considered by emergency procedure in order to avoid difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. Two months, two meetings of the National Assembly, so to speak, a regular procedure of law would be possible, despite warnings from several opposition parties, and decided that the law must be made by emergency procedure, immediately after which the committee found that it was not necessary for the law to be corrected and that the procedure was the same as it was. Therefore, I ask what – according to the letter, I believe that Mrs Kozlovich knows what she is signing – are these difficult consequences for the functioning of the country. Because I don't know if these letters you're sending from the government even believe. As has already been said, we will not oppose the adoption of this law in our parliamentary group, but once again I urge you to take urgent steps, if you think that the law is necessary to get it out of the way after the emergency procedure, to the end. And I ask that it be said in the course of the debate, because obviously there have been difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, the consequences of which and who will be responsible for these consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! Let me first mention that, despite the complications with the adoption of this law, it is only a pleasure to see the text of this proposal, which is at least to some extent better than the one that originally appeared on our benches. That is why we will contribute our votes to the adoption of the law. In interpreting the general provisions, i.e. the provisions relating to professional matters and applicable to the whole country, I will not deepen myself within the framework of our Group's position. I would like to point out, however, that the provisions of Articles 4 and 10 of the draft law relating to health operators in areas where the Hungarian and Italian national communities or their members live, and to the implementation of those activities in this area, are very precisely and substantively defined. Therefore, these two provisions, these two paragraphs, I am pleased to say, are better than the law so far. In the context of the adoption of the bill, we want to correct another weakness, in line with the position and expectation of the Hungarian Self-Governmental Community of Pomur. Thus far, the Hungarian National Community has not been granted the right to use the mother tongue in a secondary-level institution, i.e. in a hospital, because there is simply no such institution in the national mixed area. It is clear that it is not possible to regulate the use of the language by the indigenous national community in an identical manner with the criteria applicable to the national mixed area, so we are addressing these tasks adapted to the situation, but undoubtedly in accordance with the applicable constitutional and legal frameworks and provisions. In order to facilitate understanding of this specific issue, I state that members of the Hungarian National Community in the hospital, which is also responsible for the area because we live, this is Rakičan Hospital or Murska Sobota, are formally unable to communicate in their mother tongue, despite the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which formally ensures this. The fourth paragraph of Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the law lays down those rights which are exercised by members of indigenous national communities outside the areas where they live. So this provision has not been regulated so far. In order to bridge this gap, we have tabled an amendment to Article 4 and 10 of the proposed law on the basis of the coordination and arrangements that have lasted virtually all the way up to today, allowing only the possibility of using the mother tongue in an institution located outside the nationality-mixed area, while also carrying out unequivocal health activities for members of the indigenous Hungarian national community. The proposed substantive solution does not mean extending the rights of indigenous national communities to a one-language area, but only in one explicit, designated institution that is closest to it provides the possibility of using its own mother tongue. If the proposed amendment is adopted, which I firmly hope, the actual legal standards will be adapted to concrete implementation in the act of the institution concerned. Thus, such a solution is of a communicative nature, but it is a step forward in ensuring the rights of the Hungarian national community in respect of the rights that apply outside the national mixed area and, in comparison with the situation so far, undoubtedly represents a step forward. And to some extent we are also implementing the previously cited article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, I should like to thank all of you who, as I have said before, have participated in and tried to help resolve this issue, and I hope that creative cooperation in this spirit will also be present in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ms Vlasta Počak will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! By means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to certain health-related laws, we transpose into our legal order a Directive of the European Union 2013 concerning the minimum conditions for training for healthcare professionals subject to automatic recognition of professional qualifications, language skills and the occasional provision of health-care services. The main objective of the proposal is therefore to harmonise with EU legal acts with a view to ensuring quality healthcare and patient protection. The conditions for the application for the occasional provision of health services shall be changed, specifying the additional documents to be submitted by the service provider for notification. This includes a certificate that a service provider may provide services in accordance with the rules of the country of establishment and that at the time of the issue of the certificate it is not prohibited to provide such services on a temporary basis, proof of non-punishment and declaration by the service provider of the language knowledge required for the performance of the profession in a Member State. The basic conditions concerning the duration of training of healthcare professionals are laid down. In training graduate nurses, graduated midwives, mag. pharmaceuticals, doctors and doctors of dental medicine require a new cumulative period of education as well as a number of hours at that time. This proposal introduces an amendment allowing competent authorities to verify the language skills of professionals who affect the safety of patients. Pending the entry into force of that Directive, the systematic verification of language skills by Member States and the competent authorities of Member States was prohibited after the interpretation of the European Commission. As a minimum level of knowledge of the Slovenian language, the proposal requires a level of knowledge of the B2 Joint European Language Framework and the employer will be able to set a higher level in his/her acts, taking into account the complexity of the job, the importance and frequency of contacts with the patient and the way in which he/she works. A greater contribution in the field of effective patient protection is also the proposed so-called alert mechanism, which obliges national competent authorities to warn each other about cases where health workers and some other workers are banned from their profession, even if it is a temporary ban. To this end, the draft law provides that the Ministry or the competent chamber, in the event of the withdrawal of licences, must inform the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union through the information system. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the solutions proposed constitute an important contribution to improving the quality of the patient's medical treatment and help to protect patients and ensure proper treatment, so we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone else! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of health care is a result of an amendment to the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications, as amended by the Directive of the European Parliament on the recognition of professional qualifications and the Regulation on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. The law therefore transposes into the Slovenian legal order only part of the directive, which establishes, for the first time, the conditions of competence for health professions, secondly, the degree of knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreign healthcare professionals who carry out health activities in the Republic of Slovenia, and thirdly, it also regulates in more detail the occasional or temporary provision of health services. We have already discussed the bill on the Health Committee for the first time in 10 years. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The law was poorly prepared and was removed from the agenda on a proposal from the coalition. At the emergency session 2. 12. In 2016, the Health Committee re-examined the law. There were 21 amendments to the 26 - article law. Of course, it has been confirmed by the coalition and has been overheared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has made a number of comments to each article of the proposal. On a proposal from the Ministry of Health, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should transpose the directive into our legal order by 18. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since we have missed this deadline, Slovenia is by the European Commission 30. 9. 2016 received a warning that the Directive should be harmonised within 2 months, i.e. up to 30 months. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, if the Republic of Slovenia does not notify the rules by 30. 11. 2016, following an action with financial implications. The financial implications shall be considered from the first day following the expiry of the time limit for transposition of the Directive. However, the financial implications range between EUR 6 000 500 and EUR 10 000 300 per day, ranging from the delivery of the judgment to the fulfilment of the obligations set out in the judgment. The European Commission may also propose to the Court of Justice of the European Union to impose a lump sum payment on the Member State. Assuming that the Republic of Slovenia is one year behind the transposition of the directive, the financial implications of the fixing of the flat-rate amount for Slovenia would range from a circus of EUR 500 000 to, perhaps, a million EUR 400 000. Today we're 20. 12. 2016, so with the transposition of the directive we are 10 months late, the financial implications are likely to be, and this is a fact. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also raised on the Health Committee the question of who, in the event of an action by the European Commission, will bear financial consequences for the late adoption of the law. By the representative of the Ministry of Health, we have received a reply that the consequences of the late adoption of the law are at fault at the Ministry. Thus, the Ministry of Health has taken the blame for the late adoption of the law, and the financial consequences will have to be borne by taxpayers, and this is nothing new. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, a law that is incomplete, opaque, unclear, where the provisions are being duplicated or opposed, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you! The proposal for a new law on health care is another of those proposals by which Members are once again preventing possible action and fines by the European Union because the Government has not prepared a proposal for a law to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament into our legal order in due time. The Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the Regulation on administrative cooperation through the information system for the internal market should be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by January of this year. Thus, we have nothing but support for the bill because our country is threatened with high fines, and we hope that this practice will not happen again. On the basis of extensive and serious comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, we have written on the domestic working body a proposal practically new, since for a large majority of the articles we have prepared and adopted amendments with which we have tried to amend the law at least a little. However, we have not been able to correct the fact that we are amending two laws with one proposal, which should be permissible only when it is necessary and this necessity is thoroughly justified, which was not the case in this case. The content of the proposal itself has not been disputed, as it is, after all, for the transposition of the European Directive and the regulation. Amendments thus lay down minimum conditions of competence, such as the duration of education for graduate nurses, graduated midwife, mag. pharmaceuticals, doctors and dental doctors. At the same time, the level of knowledge of Slovenian for foreign healthcare professionals who work in Slovenia is further regulated on a periodic basis or on a temporary basis. Doctors will have to control the Slovenian language to such an extent that they can communicate smoothly with patients, colleagues, test reports and reports. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law under consideration transposes into our legal order the provisions of the European directives concerning amendments to the Professional Qualifications Directive and the Regulation on Administrative Cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. At the same time, in the Group of Social Democrats, we are asked why the transposition of these Directives has not taken place before, since the Directive was adopted in November 2013. The law transposes into the Slovenian legal order only part of the directive, namely the material part relating to the health professions which are subject to the automatic recognition of professional qualifications by a graduate nurse or a medical doctor, a graduate midwife, mag. pharmacology, doctor and other dental medicine. The law thus transposes the provisions of the Directive which lay down minimum conditions of competence for those professions. The appropriate level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for foreign health professionals and co-workers who carry out a medical activity or medical service in the Republic of Slovenia is determined. The law also provides for a clearer procedure for the application of occasional or temporary provision of services and extends the list of evidence to be submitted for notification. In order to protect patients and consumers, the obligation of the competent national authorities to notify the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union of cases where health professionals and certain other workers are prohibited from carrying out their profession, to withdraw their licence, even if this is a temporary prohibition. This law is therefore only about the transposition of the provisions of the European Directive into our legal order, so the Social Democrats will also support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello to you all again! We probably all agree that in Slovenia we have the right to communicate with doctors and health workers in Slovenian and, of course, also in Italian and Hungarian. At the same time, we probably also agree that health workers have the right to have their work carried out in the above-mentioned languages. But there is no absolute in life. If the patient cannot be treated in Slovenia, it should be directed to treatment abroad. If we don't have enough home doctors for a specialty, we need to temporarily hire outsiders. While the United Left is increasingly doubtful about the general burden of some doctors, especially those who work first in public hospitals, they are not overloaded for afternoon work in private. Such cases are unfortunately too many to be swept under the carpet. However, we do have an acute lack of specific specialties, such as anesthesiologists in Maribor. And that's exactly what this law touches on the other. The question is whether doctors and healthcare professionals from abroad are allowed to work in Slovenia under reasonable conditions. I'm afraid not. For example, a doctor is required to have a degree of C1 knowledge. If we look at the countries, the major importers of health workers, we see that Germany and Austria have milder conditions. Austria and many German countries have the prescribed level B2 equal to Croatia. Germany does not even have a language condition for EU citizens. The ministry is more papal than the pope, it does not take into account the real situation in Slovenia. Not only do healthcare workers from Styria drive to Gradec, we have daily migrations of health workers from Ljubljana to Celovec. That is why we have serious problems in border hospitals, especially in UKC Maribor. With Austria, most of the wages are currently and for some time, unfortunately we cannot compete. That is why a shot to the knee is to place stricter language conditions instead of taking advantage of one of the few advantages — the similarity of the Yugoslav languages. Slovenia is not interesting for Austrian doctors, but it is interesting for doctors from the former Yugoslav republics. According to the Croatian Chamber only, more than 150 doctors leave Croatia annually. In view of the situation in our healthcare system, one wonders why conditions are stricter than the current Occupational Occupations Act. Perhaps this law is, in one part, arbitrary because the conditions of language knowledge are set by each institution individually, but it is significantly more vital than today's proposal. The current law allows for a quick response to the problems of lack of doctors, sometimes there is simply no solution to the involvement of doctors from abroad. These doctors cannot be expected to learn Slovenian without delay; unfortunately, the government proposal does not have clearly defined exceptions for such cases. Under the line, the big problem with the EU is that doctors are leaving Slovenia, Croatia, Romania to Austria, Germany, Great Britain and elsewhere, from where they are not enough, to where they are already so many or most. Therefore, it does not make sense for you to impose higher conditions on doctors from abroad than, for example, Germany or Austria. Our people, of course, have the right to work and treatment in the Slovenian language, but too strict regulations are a double sword. What helps you to have the right to communicate with a doctor in Slovenian at some high level if you are out of surgery due to lack of anesthesiologists in Maribor. As it is said, the law has unforeseeable negative consequences for the health system, one of the key things I have put forward here is plastic enough, I hope, so we will not support it. Of course, we want this government and this composition of the National Assembly to finally start dealing with the 20-year-old human resources challenge – our public health. However, I can say in advance, although this may seem to be exclusionary to someone, but it is not, but we will support the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' Group. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. Dr. Goncz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As I have already said in my opening remarks, we particularly want to settle an area that has not been settled for many years, despite the fact that the Constitution provides a clear opportunity and a right to do so. But the point is, above all, very simple; the Hungarian National Community lives in the national mixed area in Prekmurje, where the healthcare home is bilingual and there is no problem in this regard, but there is no secondary level of health activity, so there is no hospital. The hospital is located in a one-language area, which has not settled this issue in the past, nor has it had, if we are honest, legal basis for this, except for the Constitution, laws on this issue have not yet been passed. This is precisely why we have already tried to resolve this issue in the process of preparing and addressing this law. At the stage when the matter was at work, there were still a number of uncertainties, including the different interpretations of this issue, but if I am very honest and well-intentioned, this may have been because we did not listen, rather than for actual reasons, and therefore I am so more pleased that in recent days we have only come with those, especially within the framework of the coalition with which we have substantively discussed these issues, to a step forward. This is also the reason that today is the real basis for our proposed amendment to be supported, and I expect that somewhere. Mr Vice-President, if you agree, I will now explain the two amendments very briefly, because they are practically exactly the same, because the merging of the two laws in this proposal makes it virtually the same, so that it does not make sense to discuss this twice or to discuss it. In short, we particularly want to address this issue within the framework of legal and constitutional options, and I stress that there is no extension of the right that applies to a national mixed area outside the national mixed area, because what we propose in the amendment is a more communicative nature, because we can use the word. So, this means that we communicate with this competent institution, and this is only one and only because it is clearly written in our text, that it relates only to the nearest hospital or institution, so that in the framework of the sub-laws or statutes of the institution, this issue is properly addressed. However, in order for the matter to be clear, I must read a paragraph which also speaks of what is prescribed for the national mixed area concerning health activities. In the last paragraph of Article 4, and also in the last paragraph of Article 10, it is stated that health care providers involved in the public health service network shall ensure that in the areas of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the patient is given the right to communicate with healthcare professionals and health professionals in the Italian or Hungarian languages at the level of knowledge referred to in paragraph 2 or 3 of this Article. Similarly, Article 10 makes sense. This is what we are proposing or proposing an amendment, which is that the right in the previous sentence, namely the right to use the mother tongue, can be made possible to the patient, so that it can be possible, in the nearest hospital located outside the municipality where the indigenous national community lives when there is no such institution in the area. So, simply put, where there is no such institution, and the Constitution provides in Article 64 that those rights that apply outside the national mixed area shall be laid down in law, this is the only and also the right place where this area can be settled and this gap is filled somewhere. I believe that it is in the interest of all, not only Hungarian nationals, that a medical activity, which is particularly sensitive to personal matters, is organised at such a level as to enable members of the national community to access such services in their own language. So, so far, so much. If there is a need for further in-depth discussion or interpretation of any dilemma in this regard, then I will come forward later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. Mr. Roberto Battelli, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. To illustrate, I'm trying to illustrate the plastic thing. We're lucky that the hospital in Isola is built in a national mixed area. This situation is not in the Lendava Premur work. The country already treats the Italian national community differently from Hungary. Article 4 of the legislation in force, as well as Article 4 of this Act, which repeats and further degrades what is already in health legislation regarding hospitals operating in national mixed areas, is not at all feasible for the Hungarian national community if these two amendments are not adopted. Do you understand? So I ask that the actual situation be established and that the situation be corrected on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I will comment on something in the debate on the cases that have been carried out. With a view to the protection of patients and the quality of medical treatment, the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language for all foreign health professionals is determined as a condition for the management of healthcare activities or medical services. In determining the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language, the principles of proportionality were taken into account in particular. Doctors must master such a level of Slovenian language knowledge that will allow them to communicate smoothly with patients and colleagues, to write the required tests and reports. Therefore, doctors and doctors of dental medicine are required to have a high level of knowledge of Slovenian language or C1. According to the profession, this level of knowledge is also proportionate to the duty of the doctor or doctor of dental medicine and is also proportionate to the rights of the patient under the Patient Rights Act. Due to the nature of work and competence, the same level of knowledge of Slovenian language C1 is required not only for a doctor or doctor of dental medicine, but also for a graduate nurse, a graduate midwife and a Master of Pharmacy. For other health workers and healthcare professionals, the bill provides for a minimum level of knowledge of the Slovenian language, which is B2, but the employer may determine a higher level of knowledge according to the nature of the work, contacts with patients and the complexity of the job. In the bill, as we have already heard, particular attention is also paid to languages of national communities, where in an area where an indigenous minority lives, it also requires the same level of knowledge as the Slovenian language. It was further stated in the debate that secondary health schools should be discontinued. Let me begin by saying that health care techniques are not even part of the autonomous recognition of professional qualifications. This proposal for a law does not apply at all to secondary education of a nurse. And let me stress here, because there have been a number of misleading announcements in the public that there is no way that high school for nurses is being abolished. Although there is currently an amendment to the professional standard to work together in this work, this is by no means in relation to the proposal for a law that we are considering today. The question was why the law, which many call it a technical law, had been drawn up for so long. First of all, certain content was tried to be included in the Health Workers Act, which encountered huge opposition from some expert groups and associations, later in the amendment to the Health Act, which is still a proposal for coordination. Just because the consequences of financial nature and catheters are not difficult to correct, we are now going into the proposed amendment of the two laws in that way. The consequences are not yet due to the fact that the European Commission has not yet taken action, obviously in the light of the explanations given at the Ministry of Health on 30 November.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I ask my colleagues whether anyone else would like to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on tasks and powers of the police. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. In the spring of Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the adoption of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, a major part of the project initiated in 2009 has been completed. Until now, the Police Act has replaced the Police Organization and Work Act and the UNPPol, which is the law that we are considering today regulating the exercise of police duties and powers. The latter introduced a number of innovations and, above all, ensured more systematic, transparent and clear police powers, including more safeguards to ensure human rights and fundamental freedoms. Police work is one of the areas for which it is not possible to foresee in law all the situations that can be faced by those who carry out the work. The proposed amendments and additions to UNNPPol do not change the basic principles of the applicable law, but rather supplement and more precisely regulate provisions that have proved to be insufficient or insufficiently regulated during the implementation of the law, so as to ensure even higher legal and personal security of people and their property. The law also builds on the exercise of existing powers with modern technical means to enable the police to follow technical developments in society. The fundamental novelties of the draft law are: a more precise method of making a modified identity; an expanded set of measures necessary to track down the wanted person in need of assistance; more specifically, provisions are laid down in relation to covert targeted controls and in line with the Council's decision; in order to enhance the protection of victims of violence within the family, the provisions on the prohibition of approximation are complemented; measures to be taken by police officers in relation to violence at sports events; new coercive means, electrical paralysing agents are envisaged; the possibility of using vehicles and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will enable police to act more effectively in the case of extreme forms of terrorism and other similar cases; the conditions for collecting data on air passengers as one of measures to prevent and detect terrorism; and the conditions for the use of technical means for the optical recognition of registers in the case of terrorism and other similar cases; and the conditions for the use of data are laid down for the use of new data by the authorities, as a result of which the data are based on the technical means of which the law. The fundamental duty of the police is to ensure security for individuals and communities, to protect human rights and to strengthen the rule of law. To enable police to carry out their tasks in the face of changing security conditions in the future as effectively as possible, police officers need appropriate police powers. How we want an effective police force depends primarily on us or on what tools or powers we give to police officers to carry out their duties. We certainly want to live in a safe country in the future, and that is also the essence and purpose of the bill. We also believe that the proposal for a law on all novelties also contains appropriate safeguards that, when effectively carrying out police tasks, prevent disproportionate interference in the implementation of police tasks with the privacy of an individual or other human rights. Even today, the work of the police is constantly under the criticism of both the internal and external public. Any individual who considers that fundamental human rights have been violated in the performance of police duties shall have the right to appeal to him. On the part of the State, we have a number of non-governmental organisations monitoring the work of the police, from the Ombudsman to the Information Officer, and we also have a number of NGOs monitoring the work of the police, and prosecution and judicial supervision are crucial. Undoubtedly, the police work is constantly being monitored and always under criticism, of course as a minister I do not challenge, I also control police work, and I expect the police to carry out their tasks professionally and effectively. However, we must be aware that we cannot uncritically prevent the possibility of modernising police powers today. The police have always had the power to be effective in the fight against crime. Those who commit crimes adapt to these developments, and how quickly they can use modern technical means. The proposed amendments to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police will not limit the rights or freedoms of citizens, but will allow the police to be more effective in fighting those who violate them. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are part of police work because the police protect them. Ideological or systemic mistrust in the work of the police is damaging, as trust in the police as a key institution of internal security in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the conditions for its effective work and is therefore essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a proposal for a law on new police powers. It is a matter of course that changes in this society are necessary, but we must not abuse these changes in the light of the human rights threat. Why does he change you? Is the security situation really that bad? Statistics on crime do not show any deterioration of crime in Slovenia. Of course, we are witnesses every day, like yesterday, to terrorist attacks and other threats to security, but this must not affect that we are prepared to make human rights available for security purposes. There is a paradox in security, more security than you promise, more threatened people feel and fear. Of course, more than fear, more human rights are willing to sacrifice for safety and this spiral is just spinning; people are becoming more and more afraid, but security is no longer. We need to ask ourselves what we want: either security or control. Of course, some of the proposed measures mean more control. More control means more abuse. If we look at these changes, what's going on at the police station? It happens that wages are bad, that the percentage is always lower. Pays have been better in the past. They are increasingly tasked with proposing more and more new tasks; new training tasks, new work. They're already more than 100 percent burdened and they're going to get new assignments, but they're not going to hire more people. It is said that with the existing formation they will perform several tasks for less or more, or equal money. Crime is certainly changing and these changes need to be followed. We see that the economic vulnerability of people, both in the police force and elsewhere, is increasing and the pressure of police changes due to this kind of threat is increasing. It's an aging problem in the police department. More and more new tasks that require more skill, but the population is getting older. What about training? We see that training is getting less and less and less money is being spent on them. As a result, research suggests that there is increasing stress and overexercision in the police force. This means that more and more violations can occur, and the police feel threatened. I am afraid that some of the proposed changes are going in a more direction, because police officers feel threatened and are in a poorer psychophysical condition, they would prefer to have more authority to feel safe. Statistics show that the psychophysical condition in the police is always getting worse. I wonder if the new powers cause more or less stress and burden in the police. Another important aspect of legislative changes is the functioning of the rule of law. If we know that the anti-legal state is a police state, it can be established through history that whenever the police and the prosecution have exceeded their powers, the rule of law must react. That is why the institute of the investigating judge was established in Slovenia. The investigating judge has the function of protecting human rights and means controlling the functioning of the police and the prosecution. For example, if we look at the exercise of rights in the house investigation, the reasonable grounds for the suspicions to be presented by the police are the basis for human rights infringements on the inviolability of housing. And here we run into this problem of powers and human rights. Of course, there is an intensive debate in Slovenia about whether or not to abolish the investigating judge's institute and who will then take over these supervisory functions and human rights protection functions. Similarly, in the case of covert investigations, the state prosecutor means that function of police supervision because he orders certain investigative measures — those not ordered by the investigating judge. The standards downgrading lower the supervisory function of the investigating judge to the state prosecutor and those of the state prosecutor to the chief of police. Of course, this is about human rights. The evidentiary standard is then questionable in further court proceedings and in the functioning of the control mechanisms that we have introduced throughout history. So, I wonder about the principle of proportionality and whether we can achieve the same or even greater effects with a smaller means. We know that in history, when we transferred covert investigative measures from the then service of the Soviets to the criminal police, people thought that there was no longer a need for classical criminal work, but they would do everything to cover up investigative measures, which then did not happen. If I can make a few cases more specific. About the hearing. He was sometimes questioned by an investigative judge and all that people had said before an investigative judge, where the possibility of defence was both by the lawyer and by recording and all that comes with such a hearing, that was the evidentiary standard, which was used in further evidentiary proceedings. The criminal police have collected reports and made an official note of this, and everything that people have declared before the criminal police has not been used in further proceedings before the court. Moreover, judges in the capacity of the investigating judge had to be eliminated for infection if they participated in further stages. Then, due to lengthy procedures and changes in statements during the hearing and the hearing in court, we introduced news that police officers can also question, of course under the same conditions as the investigating judge. The new proposal still lowers the standards that it would not be necessary to be in the presence of a lawyer of hearings, but only to be recorded. I believe that this is too much pressure for possible abuse, as well as further difficulties in proving it in court. Another problem is the pooling of cases. Assembling cases is already possible in the courts. The experiences of my colleagues in Austria, with whom I have worked very hard, are going in the opposite direction. Cases run independently and thus have greater effects, as if they were pooling cases, the lawyer challenged one of several cases and this casts light on the suspicion of evidence in court and proceedings were falling. The same is true for the use of a paralyser. This has been discussed several times, both in the professional public and here in Parliament. Of course, we agree that if a paralyser is used under the same conditions as a weapon, it is said, instead of a weapon. As soon as we lower the standards for the use of a paralyser, then, due to fear and poor psychophysical condition of an individual, the abuse and use of the average occur very quickly, which of course is not good for the effect of human rights. And another example we can say, collecting records. Of course, such records exist in the modern world, but there are also major abuses of such records. If we just look at the destruction of hidden investigative measures in court, it is said who will monitor whether these records are being used in accordance with the law or are being destroyed and how the proceedings are being conducted. It is precisely because of those comments that I do not believe that the proposal at this stage should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State! First of all, I must say that, unlike the well-respected speaker, I may have a different view of this. This can also be seen concretely in these matters in the operational, who was and who was not, but let us now leave this debate for later. Therefore, the aim of the recast of legislation is a modern and transparent law which systematically and comprehensively regulates and sets out police tasks, frameworks, modes of action and all security police powers and enforcement resources in one place. The solutions proposed seek to achieve greater efficiency and operationality of police work in the protection of life, personal security and human property. Due to changes in society itself, as well as changes in technology and the very nature of police work, some solutions provide for the collection of personal data and also allow the use of new coercive means. I will not list all these matters, it must be said that a general debate will be required in the proposed law, which means that we will only be assessing in today's debate whether the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. A more in-depth, substantive and legal debate will be expected only in the second phase, when the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly will also be defined by law. Notwithstanding some of the public concerns expressed in the SMC Group, we believe that the novel follows the objectives of protecting freedom, human rights and ensuring the security of democratic police – I repeat, democratic police – whose work is based on the rule of law and autonomy. The fact that respect for and protection of human rights is a fundamental task of the police shows, last but not least, that the police are one of the few state institutions that the Ombudsman praised as very responsive and active in this area in his annual report. In the SMC Group, together with the majority of citizens, we trust the work of the police as a state authority and security service, which demonstrates the high reputation and trust of people, and we are therefore convinced that, in view of the changed security situation, the police have put in place measures to keep pace with the time and security challenges faced by them. In the SMC Group, we are aware that abuses can also occur in the State authorities with strong and extensive powers. Extensive powers also allow for serious abuses and therefore adequate safeguards and enhanced supervision are needed. The latter is also clearly understood by the police and therefore has a well-defined system of complaints and internal security as well as protection. We cannot agree to the obvious that the bill is aimed at a police state. That's not true. In addition to this system of complaints and internal security and protection, the law also provides for additional control mechanisms. In the parliamentary group, on the basis of these arguments, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly. As far as final solutions are concerned, however many and mentioned dilemmas have been resolved in our view, we expect the parliamentary group to find in-depth and expert debate the right measure to provide police officers with appropriate tools to combat crime and, on the other hand, to ensure their security as the security of all of us, and then to make sure that adequate safeguards are in place to prevent abuses of these powers. And of course, there will be no disproportionate interference with human rights and freedom. We need to strike an appropriate balance between privacy and security, which will ensure both the security of police officers and, on the other hand, our security, while noting that the measures and powers of the police to ensure our security must be effective and operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Dearly beloved, everyone has a very nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! The Berlin event that marked Europe yesterday is certainly a reminder that everything must be done for more security. This is one starting point that is essential in dealing with today’s law. The second starting point is almost a quarter of a thousand years old. Benjamin Franklin, one of the fathers of the American Constitution, said: “Who will sacrifice his freedom for greater security, will eventually lose both because he does not deserve both.” This is a dilemma that is really ahead of us when we are changing police legislation. In the law now proposed, some solutions are good and would also be appropriate, as well as well-designed for final adoption. There are many such solutions that have been discussed many times in the past, and they have also been rejected, some for no good reason at all. For example, the dilemma that repeatedly opens up with regard to the police paralyser is quite attractive to the hair. The answer to this dilemma, whether the use of a gun or a police paralyser, is one that is likely to be answered by anyone; or rather, it gets two 9 millimeter bullets or one shock with a police stunner. In short, these things need to be taken with the power of wisdom, and of course with an appropriate dose of reason. The second is when it comes to issues of respect for human rights and the control of police powers. There, however, the proposed changes are not good. In fact, I would warn you and really ask you to read this, to the position formulated by the Legal and Legal Service and attached among the materials. It draws attention to the non-systematicity of certain solutions, even to the fact that any of these solutions, such as those related to the protection and storage of DNA in certain archives, are clearly contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Such a thing should, however, be removed in law before such a proposal even appears in the National Assembly! The issue of police supervision is being raised; it is already so much so that it is a little more fragile. We have previously discussed the report and questions raised by the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services – or by the domestic KNOVS – and there we have found that we are very well involved with the competent intelligence services, saying, Sovo and SOVOS, the military intelligence service, and we do not have the slightest comment that cooperation or occasional non-cooperation with the criminal police is taking place. For there is an area that is now open with one solution also in this law, which is before us today, which is essentially of such a boundary nature. This is a criminal intelligence activity and this is an area where extreme caution is needed. Because, on the one hand, the police would like this area not to be subject to supervision, it is said that this would be left entirely to them, and on the other hand, as is now being established, a relatively far-reaching interference with that classical area of intelligence. So we ask ourselves why this is absolutely necessary, why it is not enough to strengthen and adequately support the Owls, then to participate in these services and the ODS, but if this is already going on, of course, there is a need for control, which must be equally and equally effective and more effective than those two services. For once again, I emphasize, it is a border area. This was perfectly seen in the Ornik case, which we have already faced several times, when, according to the instructions of two types of criminal police, by some young inspired hacker who believed he was saving his country and working for the good of his community, illegally hacked into hundreds of accounts, e-mails, Facebook profiles, and then transferred information to the police. Ornik, of course, is not alone, there are many. And then there's the problem – isn't there? If this thing gets out of hand and gets out of hand, we end up getting the political police back, just like we had a few decades ago. And that can't happen. But it is not possible to sacrifice freedom here to say that we have something more secure. Thus, when it comes to the law before us today, in the SDS, we point out in particular that we should take into account consistently all the comments made by the legal service, because they are correct, are appropriate and justified. We also point out that so far it has been the practice of the Constitutional Court to require whenever it comes to the possibility of interfering with human rights and fundamental freedoms, that the provisions must be clear. It is not permissible for the provisions to be stretched out and then explained to each other in their own way; also, by the way, the legal service warned of this. In particular, we note that this is also found in certain acts, such as the resolution on how appropriate legislation should be drawn up and adopted by the National Assembly. So something the National Assembly has committed itself to, and this is not respected in this law. Here you have a whole bunch of formulations that are force-stretched and ambiguous. Those are the formulations, you know. "best", "especially if it will" It is then in the right very difficult to limit and control. [[…]] For this reason, the Constitutional Court insists that such a dictatorship, such a formulation of legal provisions when it comes to interference, the possibility of interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms, is not permissible. And the law, if he goes on as he is, will surely end up in the Constitutional Court. I guess no one wants that, at least I hope not, because of some of the good solutions that are in it. So the law is that it brings some of the solutions that a country facing security challenges today would need more than ever in its history since its independence. On the other hand, the law also contains a whole range of things that are not clearly defined, which are obviously even unconstitutional for this, which some even explicitly conflict with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which pose a potential and also a real threat to the freedom and human rights of all citizens and citizens. This is why we cannot support the SDS Group at this stage of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	Mr Peter Wilfan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! The proposal for a law on police tasks and powers drawn up at the Ministry of the Interior provides, inter alia, that new police officers could use an electric paralyser as a means of enforcement, have the possibility of automatic identification of license plates, and that data on air passengers would also be collected. The applicants have already presented the details, so I would not repeat myself here. In particular, there have been reports in the public at the expense of adding new powers to police officers, including the Information Officer and Amnesty International Slovenia, while on the other hand the police claim that the aim of the law is both to ensure security and to protect human rights. Of course, everyone is asked where the right limit is when we can reach human rights on a security account. In other words, how much freedom, one of the fundamental human rights, is willing to give up on a security account. Unfortunately, we are at a time that requires all of us to ensure as much security as possible for all citizens and residents of Slovenia. It must be said that the need for effective legislation of another European country has been recognised in the past and similar solutions proposed by the Ministry and the police have been enacted several years ago. He raised a lot of dust in public about the use of an electric stunner. It is understandable to ask the first question of who will be able to use all the paralysers, where and what will be the control over the use. Let me give you a quick answer, the electric stunner will only be available to police officers who perform tasks in intervention groups, not just all police officers. Furthermore, the stunner will be equipped with a video camera to document the police procedure. Last but not least, the use of a paralyser is known in all European countries where positive pupils are reported, except Malta and Cyprus. The practice of other countries shows that it is being used more and more, while the use of firearms is declining and the number of deaths and serious injuries of offenders and police officers as well. On the basis stated in the Desus Group, we believe that the time has come to listen to the experiences of other countries, but above all it is time to start with the work of introducing less dangerous weapons. The imposition of a paralyser could reduce both the consequences for the persons against whom they are used and for the police. In the Desus Group, we believe that the bill contains a number of control mechanisms, ranging from the role of an investigative judge to the restriction in individual articles, whereby police will only be able to use certain data for a specified purpose. Thus, for example, the data collected by the automatic plate detection will not be stored or processed. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law at this stage, and we point out that the use of coercive means must take the utmost account of constitutional rights, such as the inviolability of life and the prohibition of torture and inhumane behaviour. We would also like to point out that coercive measures must be used legally and professionally and that police officers should be properly trained to use them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President, again for your word. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the end of 2016, we are discussing and deciding whether the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers is suitable for further consideration. Before I go to the content of the proposed law alone, I will touch on statistics for 2015 relating to the use of police, coercive funds and violators. This is because the most criticism concerns precisely new coercive measures. Compared to 2014, a decrease in the number of offenders against whom officers used coercive means, the number of coercive means used and the number of cases in which officers used coercive means was recorded. Police have identified the consequences of this decline and relate to fewer police procedures in which enforcement measures may be used as well as fewer road traffic procedures and consequently fewer infringements found. The most frequently used means of enforcement were physical force and means of fastening and tying, which shows that police officers respect the principle of proportionality or that they have generally used the most appropriate means of enforcement in carrying out police tasks. Firearms were used eight times, while in 2014 only once. Despite this promising statistics that the number of attacks on police officers is lower and that the use of force by the police is declining, it is still important to be concerned about the police finding that attacks on police are more aggressive. News of worse injuries to police officers is also alarming, even worse news of the death of a police officer in the workplace while performing his duties. Unfortunately, that's what's going on. Social Democrats are aware of the changed security conditions in Europe and in the world, threats of terrorist attacks are constantly hanging over us. Also from war zones and areas where new conflicts are emerging, people are fleeing mass to a promised Europe without borders. This automatically increases the need to establish stronger supervisory instruments implemented by the police in order to ensure a high level of security for citizens and citizens. In this context, are the new security circumstances really right for changing or adding new powers? In fact, what do these proposed changes and additions bring us? Let me give you some. The provisions on the general police clause are complemented, for example the decision to apply the general police clause is taken by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior. In the event of restrictions in the event of worse infringements of public law, special judicial protection is provided for in the urgency procedure. More precisely, it is a way of making a modified identity so that it is specially designed to produce a modified identity and especially its actual use. A wide range of measures are needed to track down a person in need of assistance, since in practice there are cases where a person cannot be provided with assistance in time because the police do not have information to help track the missing person in a timely manner. In the case of more sensitive human privacy interventions, appropriate safeguards are also provided for the implementation of individual measures, such as the consent of relatives with whom the missing person lives in a common household, the order of the investigating judge. Prohibitions of approximation in order to increase the protection of the victim of domestic violence will make it possible to increase the relevance of the data contained in non-governmental and other organisations involved in the treatment of domestic violence and in the appropriate preparation of the victim for further proceedings before the judicial authorities. Here, I would also like to point out the extension of the measure to 15 days. This measure is intended to help improve the conditions for the victim to be informed of the possibilities available to him, including the possibility of submitting a proposal to extend the measure. Stepping up measures related to violence at sports events – a legal obligation is laid down for police officers to be trained to use coercive means. In short, it's about measures that are hard to deny support. However, there are also measures available to the police to provide new technical options for the collection and processing of certain data by a large number of individuals without focusing on action in the event of a suspected individual or to avoid legally permissible cases of routine control. More controversial solutions relate to: the use of technical means to optically identify registration plates in road traffic control; the definition of conditions for the collection of data on air passengers; the more accurate use of technical means in data collection for the purpose of carrying out police duties; new records to be kept by the DNA-related police in order to carry out police tasks; and the newly regulated way of keeping records of DNA investigations, dactyloscopic records and photographs of photographed persons. And this is the reason why in the Group of Social Democrats we will not unitedly support the conclusion that the proposal for a new law is suitable for further consideration. However, if this decision is adopted, we can expect more criticism and questions about whether these solutions establish a police state or a smooth mass control of individuals. This proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police has been subject to many criticisms from the very beginning when it came to the public, by the profession and by the individual and interested public weighing whether human rights abuses are proportionate to the actual situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	Ms Violeta Tomić has the floor and will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister! In the United Left, we strongly oppose the increase in repression, mass control and interference with privacy brought by the Government's novels of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. It is frightening that this law is only part of a package that transforms Slovenia into a police state and, on the other hand, it is justly tragic that an increase in repression and unjustified interference into privacy is proposed by the government of the party that promised the rule of law and the protection of human rights before the elections. Instead of strengthening the rule of law and creating a more just society, we are getting reinforcement of the country's repressive apparatus. It must be resisted. It is clear where such changes will lead us. It is clear from the explanation of the law that the writers used the United States as an example, where the so - called great brother gained control over all life’s schedules and with the same reasoning as that government law used. Mass control, new powers and new repressive means are expected to be a need to ensure security. Of course, the Government does not substantiate the alleged reasons with any figures and with no analysis. Of course, the government does not substantiate the supposed reasons; only the rhetoric of the so-called security risks and the fear of terrorism, in which, we have to admit, the Government and the right are very well complemented. Ask yourself whether it is really necessary to introduce mass control over just each of us and give new tools to police officers from electric paralyzers to military equipment? Let's ask ourselves another question. How much safer are the United States of America because of mass control and all the repressive capabilities? The United States has the largest prison population in the world, and not just last week, when we do not read about excessive police violence, but there is widespread fear in society. The answer to social problems is no longer repression, but strengthening basic social justice. All must be given a place in society and given equality, equal opportunities and development. Only companies that do not produce inequalities and exclusions can do this. Let us now take a closer look at what this law brings us. The police will be able to use new military equipment. In short, in the next major protests, we will be greeted not only by a new water cannon purchased by our government, but also by police special forces in military armored vehicles and military weapons. But you won't have to wait for the protests. For we give the police a new means of enforcement into our hands. Which one? The Ministry says the answer lies in the question of what's between the stick and the gun. The government says it's an electric stunner. The arguments why this paralyser is needed, or the Government does not give and devote much space to it, but the argument they give also does nothing but expose the complete mania of all the important reasons for its introduction. Paralyzers, they say, are supposed to ensure greater security for police work. We should need a new repressive tool for safe work in very specific situations. What are these specific situations? Well, let's take a look at this: they're supposed to be used to control people under the influence of alcohol, illicit drugs or an unexplained mental state. Paralyzers are supposed to be used not on dangerous criminals, but on guilty and mentally ill! How absurd this argument is, there are two concrete cases cited in the justification. In one of these cases, police officers to a mentally ill person who wanted to self - injury with a knife threw brooms, chairs, and tables in order to control her in this way. If anything, this case definitely shows that police officers do not need new coercive resources, but that they need better training and training. The introduction of a paralyser is totally unnecessary and totally unacceptable. The fact is that each new asset allows for the possibility of new abuses, and we know that paralysers can also be very dangerous. There have also been several deaths associated with its use abroad. It is said that an intervention may be an accident and that an attempt to paralyze a repentant or mentally ill person will also end with death. The introductions of paralysers are also opposed by human rights organisations with Amnesty International at the helm. Here again, I will remind you that this is proposed by the SMC and do not forget its pre-election promises about the rule of law and human rights. Let us now focus on new methods of unselective mass control over all of us and unjustifiable interventions into our privacy. The law introduces an extension of the circumstances in which a police officer is allowed to carry out a security review. Covert and dedicated border control shall be introduced, or anywhere within the country. On Slovenian roads, constant control of all vehicles will be carried out. Without any selection, the devices for optical recognition of license plates will monitor and verify all vehicles. The slogan On the road you are never alone will be given a completely different meaning and a completely different dimension by implementing this law. In addition, data on all passengers on aircraft will be collected and even though the individual will only reserve the map, these data will then be stored in the record. For effective mass surveillance, the police will also maintain new records. The police will practically know exactly when and where to drive the car, when and where to cross the border, when and where to travel by plane and for easier data collection, and the police will also use drones. So the massive control of the big brother by the example of the United States awaits us. As it is said, the Law on Tasks and Police Powers is only part of a package of repressive legislation that the government wants to adopt and that awaits us. Last week, we discussed the amendment of the Law on municipal registrarship, which increases the powers of editors and brings them closer to the police. A new Law on State Border Control will be considered in January, which contains all the provisions to increase mass control brought by the novels of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, legalising the establishment of fences and other so-called security facilities on private land in the border area. Finally, a new Law on Foreigners is being announced here, which, after all available information, will constitute a violation of international conventions. Nevertheless, Minister Györkös Žnidar is working hard to get the novels adopted. In the United Left, we are aware that it is in the nature of the repressive authorities that they want more and more powers, but these authoritarian trends need to be resisted and put on edge and the changes adopted after reflection, public debate and on the basis of analyses and arguments. Here neither the Ministry nor the government have performed their tasks, so the public interest and the rights of citizens must protect the National Assembly. The United Left will do its utmost to ensure that such laws, which transform Slovenia into a police state, are not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor and will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! At first glance, we may feel that the police, through this amendment of the law, are given clear powers that would mean or enhance their repressive function. And also, if we listen to some of our colleagues and colleagues, or if we go to the grave through the law, it may seem to us that the police will gain the power of mass general control from air passengers to all vehicles and their owners. And also the use of unmanned aircraft and the collection of biometric data to carry out police tasks, at first glance, appear to be completely unnecessary mainly due to interference with the privacy of individuals. But, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is just the first impression that an individual gets at first sight if he listens to or opens and superficially reads the law. So it's a first impression mistake. In particular, the following facts speak in favour of the proposed amendments to this Law. Firstly, see, the migration flows over the past year and a half and the associated risks to illegal crossings, including terrorists, require extremely strict security measures. We are just looking at yesterday's events in one of the European capitals in Germany, Berlin, and we see that we are not living in very safe times. Well, and even at the expense of Slovenian and other citizens, who will therefore be subject to tighter police supervision at internal and external years. But if we are to act on a healthy farm, we must admit that every citizen or every citizen prefers to see that he is going as a passenger through strict police supervision rather than that the worst happens because of insufficient control. That's the worst thing that happened in Berlin yesterday, what happened in those summer months in Nice, so we could keep going. In the autumn of this year, the United Nations Security Council was also called upon to adopt a resolution to strengthen security measures at airports. Another time. The automated check of registration plates does not mean that each vehicle will also be stopped. This will only happen in the event of serious infringements of road traffic rules or if it is necessary to track the stolen vehicle or to find the missing person. Either way, as a driver of a car, the police can always stop us; no matter what the reason is, whether it is due to general control or if there is a suspicion that there is a person in the vehicle for whom the police have to act, or if he suspects that the vehicle has been stolen. And the tyrannical control of all vehicles and their owners, which will be covered by the traffic or border police camera, in our opinion, is even an advantage, as police will not needlessly stop more vehicles, but will only stop a vehicle for which it will prove necessary. Thirdly, the legalization of an electric paralyser as a new means of forcing police officers to work according to our firm belief, if we look at these positive sides, of course, brings more secure work, because a person who resists and threatens using a weapon or dangerous object will be better able to handle it from a suitable distance. They can't practically do that with a stick right now. The electric stunner, also known by other countries – that you will not think that only Slovenia will have this legal, other countries have it – the electric stunner thus actually represents a much smaller possibility that a cop or a person who resists will eventually be injured. In Nova Slovenije, we stress that police officers must, of course, be qualified to use any means of enforcement to do so. That's what we're stressing. Expertly qualified and, of course, responsible for any overstatement of their powers below. There must always be a valid reason, of course, as a proof standard, for this first suspicion. For this reason, we are inclined to propose today's law, while the increase in the use of coercive funds by municipal officials, which we have also discussed in this regular session, is that we have not been inclined to do so, because it does seem to be a completely different matter of the extension of powers. We Christian Democrats are therefore convinced that, despite some additional interference with the privacy of individuals or interventions in society - of course, this law brings this, we must not close our eyes - that is, interventions that reduce the level of privacy protection and, on the other hand, the amendment to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which is of crucial importance, is a new safeguard for our overall common security. This, second, is called security, which outweighs the risk of causing greater danger or even for terrorist acts. Some will tell us that we will become a company of supervisors, a great brother who controls us constantly, and I would just like to remind us of the city of New York at the end of the 80 ’ s, 90 ’ s, when crime in this American city was very present, and every night numerous murders, murders, and so on. And then, practically, with the actions of then Mayor Giuliani, things changed dramatically, and the policy was so focused that New York actually equipped itself with cameras, that there was constant control of the city, and today the crime rate in New York City is drastically lower than it was 20, 30 years ago. Even in Slovenia or in other countries in Europe, we must ask ourselves and consider that the general safety of society, citizens and citizens outweighs the fact that on the other hand our police and security authorities have wider powers. Therefore, for these reasons, it is said primarily for the safety of citizens and citizens of this country that New Slovenia will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. I give the word "magic." To Dušan Verbič, prepare Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mr. Matjaž Han. Mag. Verbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! When we hear the presentation of the groups of Members, I must admit that I must say the following: as a legislative body, we must be aware — and not blind — that the Republic of Slovenia is a country where unloving events are also happening as we know them. Crime or criminality, abuses of all kinds and forms, serious offences, including road traffic. At the same time, we are also aware that we are a member of the European Community, particularly a member of NATO. Given the current political situation of the broader meaning of the word, I think we can be aware of what this means. The fact is that the security of the state and the citizens really needs to be taken care of. And it is true that in the first place we need to take care of security ourselves, then we can also count on wider assistance if necessary. However, I would like to touch on this law, because the Law on the tasks and powers of the police must nevertheless be made clear that this is a fundamental provision governing police powers. In order to amend and supplement this law, which is before us, I am also in the position that it represents, in particular, greater transparency, systematicness and clarity of police powers. Here I am immediately faced with a fact that, to some extent, even in the presentation itself, it has already been said that this bill is not entirely satisfied with this. It is also true that the material we have received shows that a large number of both theoretical, professional and all possible associations have been involved in the preparation of this law, which is also precisely due to the complexity of this matter, because the use of coercive resources certainly borders on what is often mentioned, the area of human rights, not least constitutional rights. However, we simply need to be aware that police activity is complex. What is very important to point out is, above all, that the police of crime and serious violations simply cannot be completely suppressed in us or anywhere. However, we owe it to such authorities to provide them with the appropriate means of work that will prevent both the highest level of crime and the lowest level of crime, since it together represents or threatens them, whether it is broader or in a more limited sense, including individual security. In practice, we can also say that police work is a work where it is not possible to foresee in some direction all the situations in which such situations, such as those of law enforcement or security, are also faced. It is true, and I myself believe that in such matters, even in the future, even if the amendment of the law is adopted, the principle of proportionality of the use of force is consistently implemented in such procedures. However, I would like to touch on specific areas of amendments to this law, which I believe in principle in today's debate — provided that it is decided that the law is suitable for further consideration — individual areas are not sufficiently prominent in order to avoid any consensus. The first point I would point out is certainly the exacerbation of measures related to violence at sports events. I think we all face a lot of sports or if we are present at the event, that there is still a lot of aggression or any damage to property and the danger of viewers at these events in each sport. I think that these are things that we also need to pay special attention to in our country. If we just look at how this sort of thing at individual sports events has been regulated by countries that have actually faced catastrophic violence at sports events over the past five, ten years, among other things, that have introduced the personalisation of tickets, which is just proof that the right approach to certain things also in sports events is to be arranged, especially by participating in sports events in a larger number than at a given event in our country. This is said to be the case, in some respects, to ensure greater security at sports events by some appropriate and appropriate measures. The next issue, which will certainly be the subject of today's debate as well as any further debate, where the profession, the theory, to some extent perhaps even Members, who will be somewhat opposed, is the lawisation of a new coercive asset, an electric paralyser. I must admit that I am joining all those, regardless of which group they are placed in, I am inclined to use this type of means of coercion for a simple reason — its use is incomparable compared to the currently permitted use of firearms. As a result, if there is a so-called defense or, simply stated, a shooting, the injury on the body is inappropriately greater. What is interesting about this, and perhaps it is right to point out when we had the so-called refugee wave, and if memory does not fool me when the international police assistance, especially from the Multi-urban countries, was perhaps a bit comical on our side, as far as the police were concerned when they came along with this kind of coercive means, and their surprise, because in the Republic of Slovenia such a means could not be used for once. What one would say about this forcible means is interesting and it is necessary to think about how the police defend themselves primarily in so-called closed spaces, where both theory and profession are very skeptical about the use of firearms. One of the recommendations or even a preference to this is the use of this in so-called closed or restricted spaces. So I think that when it comes to using this kind of scale: yes or no, I have to admit that the scale somehow leans in favour of this type, because even for life or, if we can call it that, the injury to the person against whom it is used is much more likely to occur in a smaller form than in firearms. Another group would like to touch on the use of technical means to optically identify registration plates in road traffic control. I think that this is a matter that can be dealt with in the public or in the debate mainly very narrowly, because already the police have the ability under the so-called road traffic control to stop all of us drivers and in the process of that time is checked from license plates to driver's license and I can say something else. By using this technical means, I believe that it is still important, while we have great traffic on motorways, that simply this kind of use of technical means in a certain direction represents, in particular,, if I may say so, in terms of the control of some pre-selection of vehicles. Which means that it has the ability to control traffic in a way that does not, on the one hand, stop so-called vehicles on motorway routes, and on the other hand, this intervention, at least as far as my point of view, is a milder intervention into an individual or, in this case, if we say in the final stage, an intervention into human rights. Because this kind of approach can really be much more controlled by the so-called semi- or all-crime that is taking place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and we know that many roads are being carried out directly across the motorway. Surely, however, this part would have ended with one thing, a word that has already been raised by individual representatives who have presented their position. What control is there in the police itself, the control of possible abuse, perhaps in the use of one or other coercive means. I think that in the next debate as a procedure, it is absolutely necessary to take a further look at whether there are enough security guards involved in the violation of human rights in the use on the one hand, at least as I mentioned earlier, of a paralyser as well as of technical means for the optical recognition of license plates. Here I expect the proposer to take a step further, and indeed with a great degree of conviction and certainty, but at the same time with the assurance that in the event of any such abuse within the police there is no such thing as extenuating circumstances, if I may say so, and that there is no consistent sanction for those who abuse. I myself conclude this contribution mainly in this part that I am absolutely in the position that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. When we talk about powers in the police force, it's always a question whether it has too little, enough or even too much authority. It is therefore very important that, when we change this kind of legal matter about the powers of the police, a broader debate is also to be held. It seems to me that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal here has been more than in place in the light of the debate that has been held so far. Because opinions are different; of course, some of these proposals see only the positive salaries of solutions, some have concerns that may go beyond what is important to the police, that is the safety of citizens and citizens and also their property, others we may be in the middle of somewhere, that certain solutions are necessary, but there is a need for borders and a great deal of attention. Allow me to read the sentence in the bill: “The solutions are designed in such a way that there is a need to take care of human rights and fundamental freedoms.” This is one of the sentences in this bill. You know, if that were the case, then the three pages of the information officer would probably not be written down. And that there will be no misunderstanding, I did not say that I agree with everything written or with anything, but there are certainly concerns that should lead us all to some question whether these solutions are really what they should be. It is also stated in the bill that police work — of course, we all know — is part of areas that cannot be anticipated in the law in all the situations that can be faced by those who carry it out. That's true, too. However, this does not mean that we extend the powers to such a dimension that we say that we have covered everything. There will always be situations we don't know. Last but not least, we know that even if you protect a system, those who want to harm it find new ways to take advantage of it. Of course, we are all in the light of not least yesterday's terrorist attack, but it must be pointed out that some time ago, months ago, a public opinion poll was carried out in Slovenia, where citizens and citizens were asked about security. What does security mean to them, the security they want. Of course, they want more security and that terrorism also poses a threat not only to Europe, but also to Slovenia, estimated about 80% of the people. Thus, 80 per cent of our citizens and citizens are rightly afraid and want us to be sharper in this area. I think that security is also an important human right in this respect and that it must be protected. Surely we are not exactly on the same shore here as the United Left representative said earlier when she says that terrorism is a threat and that, of course, we are here with the coalition when it comes to some new powers for the police. Absolutely! They have to be because it's a threat and it's a security issue. And we need to do everything we can to reduce this kind of threat or danger. However, this does not mean that we are changing the law in other areas in these facts and on these moments, but in fact they do not have a particularly important connection to this issue. Today, for example, when people are, of course, still afraid for their own safety, we are somehow crossing the border in this national assembly when it comes to the protection of human rights. However, we must not allow this and therefore the scepticism of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding individual solutions. I'm going to point out what certainly seems to me to be the most controversial at this point. Why, honourable applicants, lower the necessary evidentiary standard for the call for covert controls of vehicles? I don't know, we had some control by the criminal police of an individual who then fell out – we've heard this before today, but it has to be repeated several times, Ornik, who has been digging nicely through e-mails and, forgive the expression, God knows who else he's been taking care of data that has no connection or needs. Why, then, reduce the necessary evidentiary standard? Finally, this question is also raised by the Information Commissioner and is well justified by the Government's reply that it is not as it stated that there are some European standards, because translations from other countries are also talking about something else altogether. Control over the criminal police or their work or their capture is more than necessary. We can't just give me a free hand and say, because security is first of all, let the citizens literally feel that they live in a country where the repressive body prevails. Regardless of how we feel about the police and the citizens evaluate it very highly. But I'd like to ask you something else. In 2013, the amendment of this law was made, a few amendments were made to the new legislation at the time. It is interesting that in 2013 we are talking about these issues, which I have raised earlier, and some that relate to them, some have also been highlighted by the United Left. In 2013, the police did not propose such measures or amendments to the law to the Minister. All of a sudden, the need for changes in the law concerning, we speak, the lives of citizens and citizens and affect their human rights. Why not? Yeah, well, it's, you know, a simple answer. They say it's because at the time the minister was somehow conducting the police, and now the police are conducting the ministry. That's the problem if there's at least some truth here. Some of you make fun of it, and that's the kind of person you like to talk about human rights. It's just, you know, you know what happened in the National Assembly when we were talking about human rights, and it's also not right for cops to have some powers that would eventually prove to have a fatal impact on the constitutional rights that citizens and citizens have. Police officers like this are not at all guilty and responsible here. Those who seek or propose solutions that are not completely clear and incomplete are responsible. That's the problem. Above all, I will conclude once again and here; I believe that this public debate or debate, however, is very important, that the issue that opens up certain dilemmas is certainly about the solutions that are needed in times of security threats, but let us not forget that there is still a need to have some complete control over the enforcement authorities. Not so much that even the Security Intelligence Supervisory Board today does not get the documents it requires. Then tell me who has power in this country! Apparently, those who don't need to be handed over these documents. I hope sometimes you ask yourself what is in these documents and what are the grounds or what these people have done with our citizens and citizens. Maybe with one of us. These are other questions that require answers. I don't think horrifying solutions will be helpful. I agree, however, and once again, that, to give what needs to be done to raise the security issue of terrorism, which is now a practical part of us, there must be strong arguments as well as solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare for the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. We're all kind of under the impression of what happened in Berlin today, and I can tell you that this weekend we were a few of us, from the United Left in Berlin, at a convention, that we were drinking cooked wine outside of the booths, and I can also tell you that we were never in a convention center as much protected as we did this time. We've always been checked with security cameras, like our closed session or when we entered the airport, which means that the German security service knew something was coming up and they couldn't stop it. Why am I explaining this? Because greater control or this repression is not the solution in itself. You know, you can control it, but it happens to you. There's probably another way to solve it. The introduction of this proposal states that the role of the police in the rule of law is so important that the state of democracy can be recognised from the point of view of its effective functioning and that the role of the police changes from a state to a community activity. Well, this seems very interesting to me, because obviously the most repressive and most democratic country for this government is also the police state. I'm not surprised if we've been looking for the example of Turkey or Hungary lately. The government also states in the material that the police have a gas dispenser, but that it does not work on mental patients, people wearing a hat with a hat or glasses. In short, if you don't have glasses and you're healthy, you'll only get tear gas, or if you have glasses or you're mentally ill, you can get an electric stunner. I mean, I'm just wondering how a cop in action and on the spot is going to make this quick. Then I also hope that the paralyser will not replace the case of a police negotiator in the event of any suicide attempt. Here among the arguments we've heard, however, the paralysis is better than the weapon of fire. It should be noted that the paralyser is not a substitute for firearms, but it is stated that only children, visually ill, old, disabled, pregnant and heavy disabled, may be compensated for firearms. In short, the paralysis is more about controlling resistance and preventing self-harm than it is about the attack itself. It can be used as a physical force and not only when the conditions for the use of firearms are met. In short, colleague Bah Žibert said that the conditions for such a measure were not met in 2013. And former Minister Gorenak warned that when they were preparing the basic law, there was no need for such proposed solutions and we do not see them today; they are not. I mean, the statistics haven't changed a bit since 2013, and the security picture hasn't changed a bit. The only thing that's changed is politics. Politics has changed and this policy is increasingly frightening and increasingly xenophobic. But he is looking for a basis for intimidation in foreigners, in refugees, and in this way we would like to reach out to the basic rights of the inhabitants and the inhabitants. Before us, people have lived, statesmen have lived, and we often like to quote Benjamin Franklin, a statesman who said: “Who for a piece of virtual security is capable of sacrificing his freedom, he does not deserve either one.” And that is something that many here absolutely agree with. In short, from very similar policies and measures in the United States, there has been sufficient time to make it clear today that such measures cannot improve the security image in the country or reduce the crime rate. And we are lucky, however, that crime is very low in Slovenia. However, something else is possible; it is possible to achieve mass control in people and it is possible to achieve constant snorkeling in the privacy of the people of Slovenia. Once we have succumbed to this frightening policy and allowed ourselves to intervene in our privacy and give up our constitutional rights, then the way back is never again. It's never happened that police powers, because they don't have to, then they shut it down. Never. They only get more and more, and only less and less freedom. In short, this novel is nothing more than an increase in repression and a basis for mass control. In short, the fact is that we would need a broader debate for such a measure, and the Government and the Ministry have not done their job here. And since they did not take into account the many warnings of the profession and the interested public, this task should now be carried out by the National Assembly, because we are the only ones here who need to know that the Government and the Ministry have gone too far. We here in the National Assembly are now the last defender of individuals and individuals in our country, because the government is trying to stress that this action will not make the state of Slovenia a police state. Let's see if that's true. This law introduces covert and deliberate border control or anywhere within the country, within; broadening the circumstances in which a police officer is allowed to carry out a security check; introducing a paralyser that will not compensate for firearms, but, as we might conclude from the explanation, proposing more than a partial substitute for tear gas — a much worse substitute for tear gas. Then the police will be able to use new military equipment. In the next major protests, we can therefore expect special forces in tanks and military weapons. The police will monitor and review the data of everyone who travels by plane. Even if we just book the plane ticket, it'll be stored in the system. On Slovenian roads, constant control of all vehicles will be ensured and without any selection devices will monitor and check all vehicles nearby. So the slogan on the road you never got alone will get a completely different dimension. In short, in the United Left, to conclude, we are absolutely against the fact that under the cover of increasing security, citizens of Slovenia lose their freedom and that we will live in a country that will interfere with the rights of people, that we will live in a country that is turning under the cover of security into an unfair and undemocratic creation that will primarily oversee its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Oh, what a beautiful world without war, without violence and without criminals! But, unfortunately, we don't live in a world like this, whether we admit it or not. There's a lot of danger around here. And it is true that there is a very thin line between freedom and security. It must also be said that without basic security, there is no freedom to help us. If we do not have that physical security guaranteed, then with all the freedoms we have on paper, there is little we can do to help ourselves. It was said that repression itself cannot increase security. If the congress attended by Ambassador Tomic, there would not be so much security, but there might already be more victims. Things must also be viewed from the other side, what could have happened if certain things had not been prevented. I would like to share only one experience with you when, as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I visited the New York police. There we were told that New York was an extremely dangerous place in the early 1990 ’ s where you had the option of being robbed if you walked down the street. In the 15, 20s, this trend has changed so that you can walk around New York today. And one of the solutions they have put in place is the one that is now proposed by this law – the automatic recognition of license plates. Thus, it is very easy to be principled in these matters, but we as decision makers must always weigh between freedom and security.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs. Janja Slug and Mr. Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me at this point just a few additional explanations, comments to today's very wide, very substantive, constructive debate. Initially, I would like to say that all these proposals, suggestions, will be taken into account by your Minister in the drafting of this law, even in the following procedures, because I expect you to consider this law, however, as suitable for further consideration. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior is proposing this law, so there would be no dilemma. I must say in the introduction that this law has actually been born or originated for a very long time; more than a year and a half. Any indication that the law was drawn up in a narrow circle, that there was no broad debate that there was no coordination – such claims are unfounded. As early as August and September last year, two very wide-ranging professional discussions were held on the working draft of this law, where not only some key ministries were invited, but also the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, NGOs and so on; of course experts from the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Security Sciences and so on. In short, the beginning of the debate on this law was very broad, it was professional and on this basis we led all other activities. Coordination, professionally, both with the Commissioner, with the Ombudsman, NGOs and so on has been extremely broad. We are not just, as we often use the term, running only one cycle of coordination, several circles, personal, direct, direct, but also written, of course, so all these correspondences were produced. I must say, coordination has also been very constructive. However, the fact is that some institutions in this coordination, when we have already harmonised certain issues, have subsequently reopened matters and we have run a new circle, because we want to actually prepare a law that will be consistent, which will be qualitative and which will also have an appropriate consensus, and in particular will be effective and will achieve those key objectives, which is, and we all agree here, the security of citizens and citizens or of all the people of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introduction, I must also point out that it is not a matter of substantially expanding powers, at least some of the weaknesses, shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation, upgrade, supplement, introduce new technical means that enable more efficient work and also facilitate the work of police officers and police officers, so we also achieve greater security with greater efficiency. I think it is one of the rare laws you have received in the National Assembly that it has five additional documents in its annex, which discuss the impact of individual proposals on multiple angles and explain these impacts in a thorough and comprehensive manner. And that's the way it is. I think that we can achieve the right results in this way. I should also like to point out that we have reached even one with a paralyser, and I would also like to say that I agree with Amnesty International, because all of the last solutions that we now have installed are sufficient for all the basic or essential criteria that such a coercive means can also be effective. Security is of course important, but I agree that we must not uncritically restrict human rights at the expense of security. I would like to stress that this law goes in a proportionate direction and includes safeguards that ensure this proportionality. If we want to ensure security, there has been a lot of talk in this debate today and also in this morning's debate, then the police, as the carrier of internal security, need adequate resources and also need adequate powers. We hold and agree, and I have already stressed in the morning that it is also absolutely necessary to have adequate quality police control and control, which will be effective and implemented within the framework of the laws applicable to individual forms of control. I must say that the situation between 2012, when this law was actually born or adopted, and in 2013, when it entered into force, and in 2016, now in December, we have changed significantly. This is where I think we all agree. This period also requires new approaches in the direction of powers or means by which the police can oppose and ensure our security. I must also point out that our internal control in the police itself and the appeals procedures we have are one of the most sophisticated within the European Union and are also a case many times in other systems. Let us also not forget our internal system oversight of the Ministry of the Interior, which is very consistent and which, in some recent cases, has made it very clear that we have also identified shortcomings through these internal controls and that the Minister also determines how these shortcomings must be addressed. We would like to have some more powers and powers in the area of internal control. We have also proposed and prepared the materials of the Ministry of Justice in this direction in the last period, and I believe that we will take some important steps in this area in the coming periods. Abuse is possible, but it is precisely these systems to detect and sanction possible abuse, individual abuse. However, we cannot assume that there is some danger that the police abuse their powers. Our police have been trained, and you know that in the debates we had in the National Assembly, I have repeatedly stressed that we also need adequate education and training resources with good equipment. And here, in 2016 and even in 2015, a big step was taken in relation to past periods. I agree that we have to keep working here. I also agree that the police need to be strengthened, at least to try to get closer to the numbers we had in the coming periods, because then the police will also be less burdened. I must say, however, that I cannot agree with the argument that our older police officers, of course in narrations, pose a certain risk. On the contrary. Older police officers with their experience can make a significant contribution to the quality of police work and care for their comprehensive skills, including physical skills. It is true, however, that it is often or very difficult for us to obtain, on the other hand, such candidates among young people who meet these criteria. As far as the paralysis is concerned, however, I would like to highlight a few other elements. There's been a lot of talk here, and I can agree, but I'd like to point it out again. Firstly, the paralyser is the means of enforcement that will be used especially in the work of the police intervention units, it is said, when they go to intervene, when it comes to a particular situation, when it is necessary to act quickly, effectively, and where police officers face the most risky situations. I must say that we must not banalize some of the cases listed here. I can only tell you one example, when a person who was in some real state of mind, say, a special mental state, because no other coercive agent was effective, no sprayer or physical force, no rod could be used, so the only option was to use a gun. This person, of course, had a motor saw in his hands, lit and attacked the police. Of course, it is a dilemma whether to use a firearm or a paralyser, which for a few minutes paralyses this person, the person remains completely calm, simply cannot act against the police, so that they can then control and carry out the procedure that is needed. Of course, this is an inappropriate tool. This device, this paralyser, these models have, as has already been mentioned, a camera, is indelibly recorded, with what kind of shock it worked, with what distances the device was used, and can also then be very carefully analyzed, whether there has been an inappropriate use, it can also be protocoled, which is not the case with firearms. Some of you know that the investigation of such events is extremely complicated, and not least, it was the case that almost one such investigation took place for ten years and then the trial. I also think that all the documents annexed to the law are very clear and very detailed and confirm what I have mentioned. I want to absolutely deny that there is any mass surveillance, including automatic recognition of license plates. I have said several times, as we discussed before the hearing in the National Assembly, that all these procedures have already been conducted by police officers, in particular on state regional roads, where possible, especially on the highway cross, this normal road control is very difficult or sometimes almost impossible, except by diverting traffic through stations, which would otherwise be too dangerous. This system enables effective traffic control and does what is actually done in an automated manner, which is actually done by police officers in regular traffic control and control. I must say that this automatic processing has also been incorporated or confirmed in a resolution on the long-term development of the police, where we have highlighted the need for this tool. I must say that all the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, when we receive them, as we have always studied thoroughly, will also be aligned with them. I must say that, according to my behaviour and knowledge for almost the last four years, the Ministry of the Interior has always reached consensus or we have found appropriate solutions with the Legislative and Legal Service, so there is no need to be afraid to avoid or disregard these comments. Maybe there's something else about this use of military equipment. The material itself makes it very clear and very clear that this is an exception to exceptional cases where, of course, two ministers have to agree, where it is mainly a matter of use if necessary. This is mainly the area of terrorism, and examples of practices from abroad are also mentioned. We are preparing here for situations that we cannot rule out. The fact is that in such cases we must act quickly and effectively. As it is said, there is also a guardian established here, so the Minister of the Interior himself does not have this possibility and must agree with the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Andrej Chuš and Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will base my debate on two assumptions: that Slovenia is not one of those countries where people's freedoms would often be violated by the police on purpose or abuse. In fact, here and there, police are victims of aggression, that traffic accidents occur with the intention of injuring a police officer, that there are worse crimes with a plan to prevent as many of those who care for order and security in the country as possible. I will also make a second assumption that the Slovenian police are well-trained that they may need additional human resources improvements and that they may also need better, more modern equipment. The key to this law, and what we need to come from, is the present status of Slovenia as a safe country. Slovenia is recognised both in the economic environment, both for tourists, as well as for citizens and for a country that is safe, where it is safe to live and where it can be counted that public passenger traffic is something where it is likely that these, apart from minor thefts or possibly a traffic accident, will not be harmed. And it would be extremely important for Slovenia to remain such a country. If you ask me whether this law should be supported and whether I can support it without difficulty, I would say that without any consideration, but surely the law deserves to be sent to another treatment. If it is a question of whether police officers can automatically check vehicle registration plates while driving on the highway, it seems to me a minor intervention into my freedom, as if a police officer stops me just to check that I have a valid driver's license, a registered car and so on, because he can do so anyway. However, if he suspects that something is wrong with my vehicle, my driving, or any third circumstance, he is even obliged to do so. If he can rule all these things out by not stopping me from interfering with my daily life plan, so much the better. If it's a paralyzing question, maybe someone thinks he's inhuman, he's probably more human than a gun. And the key issue that we often forget in today's debate is why a police officer is obliged to use a coercive means. It's not because someone's wrong to cross the road. It's a matter of attacking a police officer, targeting a citizen, it's a threat to life. And if the threat of life can be prevented by not endangering another life or by doing so to the least, then I think it is also appropriate for Slovenian police to equip and use funds that are already quite common throughout the world and also in use. Essentially, I find such modern means suitable for use as a good old stick or a gun. And third, which I think is extremely important, I believe that the law will be adopted, in the second reading, we should take into account the key comments we have received from the Ministry of Justice. It is a matter of numerical claususus that all the coercive means and measures that can be used should be listed, in order to determine what is also a trend in the world, that police must wear those microcamera that also give the possibility of checking back and ensure that everything does not result from the abuse of freedoms. But this can be done, Slovenian police, Slovenian security system must keep pace with time, and it must not be based on an assumption that is absolutely wrong, and it is that Slovenian police are similar to American, which because of the mispronounced word can or sometimes shoots at some other, maybe natural laws that seem right to anyone, people who have stopped them in traffic. The Slovenian police don't do that. If you've been following many publications in the last year, many events, the problem was that Slovenian police officers did not want to use the force to be, under the terms, too peaceful and cost someone their life. The police also have families, and they also deserve an adequate level of protection, and their children, like miners, deserve to be said, “Dad, Mommy, come back alive, live home”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. But let me finish by reading who hasn't been crossed off my list yet. Mr Benedict Kopmeyer, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, mag. Bojana Muršič, Mr Franc Jurša and Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, we no longer have guests! I will also ask my colleagues to allow me the privilege of speaking a few words on the basis of Article 82(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia. I certainly appreciate the efforts of the Ministry and the careful preparation of the material that we have before us today, I hope and believe that it is true that the comments made during this debate will be taken into account in further work, in particular when we are still awaiting comments from the Legislative and Legal Service. Initially, I would like to say that the situation has been assessed in such a way that the tasks of the police in the rule of law are not arbitrary efficiency, but the protection of individuals and communities while respecting the laws and legitimate social objectives. Effectiveness means a professional, responsive and high-level professional police that ensures public order and peace with respect for law and the least possible interference with human rights. In this regard, despite the extensive analysis that we have before us, I must say that I am not satisfied with the explanation of the cities. I am missing essential but key points not to justify with yourself, say, the necessity, the appropriateness of the measures proposed. As far as I am concerned about legitimate social objectives, I am afraid that we are in the wrong law that this law does not have the right title. Today we are mainly talking about coercive means, but here we have on the agenda item of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. It is most likely a certain mix that has already occurred in the first adoption of the law, where we have, of course, a significant number of problems, and I hope that I can encourage you to actually intervene in some of the provisions that we already have in the existing law and I wonder whether this is all true and whether all of this is really necessary. When I look at the objectives set out in the proposal, I will find that the objectives of the amendment proposal and to complement the arrangements for the storage of profiles of DNA samples taken in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 13 February 2014 and the addition and more detailed regulation of provisions in the field of police tasks and the exercise of police powers, as something is missing, in view of what we are discussing most today. I absolutely agree, as stated below, that in a democratic society it is essential that we take care of national security, public security, the economic well-being of the country in order to prevent disorder or crime, to protect health or morality or to protect the freedom and rights of others. I am afraid that we are mainly discussing police today, not all people in the Republic of Slovenia. The abandonment of what we knew even at a time when I, for example, had come to know the world and the country when I lived in a police state, I did not realize that we would then have the broad powers we have today. That in the end we have “unless, otherwise, a police task cannot be accomplished”. What does that mean, please? I don't think it's what you're proposing right now. It's what's already in marriage. I suggest that we deal with this issue more seriously if we really want to restrict police officers, if we want police powers to restrict police officers, as far as possible, to the following starting points that are given and where I say that the objectives are simply not set. The objectives that we are talking about today are completely different from those that are written in the proposal, should be expanded or retreaded, but we have something completely different than the obvious before us after a good year, as you say, what the law is preparing. And now to the fundamental dilemma that has been exposed today. Is the threat of terrorism the one that dictates a change of law regarding police powers? As stated on the other hand, has nothing changed from the time of the adoption of the law to today? I have to say, I'm just about ahead of a difficult dilemma. For me, we have begun to engage in terrorism on 11 September 2001 and the world has not changed significantly since 2001. At that time, not only was there a threat, but it was simply an attack. Just a little bit of a whimper, not all too pathetic. A year before they removed Osama bin Laden, I slept in Abbottabad if it meant anything to anyone. When I asked if there was any chance that I would close the window because I had a window from the room on the staircase of the hotel and from the staircase directly to Abbottabad Street, they said: "Well problem, sir. Security. We were also driving across the intersection to Swat Valley, and I have to admit, it took us a while to go see, because we heard that this valley is very beautiful. In short, I want to say that I was there, I want to say that I live in this world, and I want to say that we are dealing with a fundamental thought: is it really what the basic purpose and purpose of terrorist action is, or is it a real threat? Of course, I was expecting today, I am surprised that we have not yet reached Slovenia, that the truck driver has certainly crossed Slovenia yesterday and we have done nothing about it. I must say this, I am seriously surprised, and I believe that this will continue to happen, because today we are only at first reading. But is this all true? Have we really failed the exam, and will we really, if we seriously reconsider, cultivate the will of terrorists to continue to act terroristly? Their purpose is to scare us. What has been said in previous discussions is that 80% of people express fear. Fear of what? What bad experience do all those who are afraid have? I have to tell myself that I have no bad experience. Of course, all those who have had it, of course those who are victims of these attacks, certainly do. Are we actually going to announce now that we have all the traffic on our roads when we know there are casualties, or are we just going to declare that these are serious security threats, that this is actually a threat to terrorism? And we'll be scared and we won't be driving on the roads anymore because it's dangerous. It's objectively dangerous. And according to my experience, it's far more dangerous than the consequences of terrorist actions. Of course, all those who work in security will say, "it's broken." But I can't help it. That is why I said, in the introduction, please, that in my work I should be allowed to speak on the basis of Article 82(1) of the Constitution, that is, without any instructions to pour out my personal feelings at this time, while we are still in the initial consideration of the law before we come to the solutions ourselves. If I take only information privacy, on the one hand, as has been well said, we have three pages of warning from the information officer. And there's something that really surprises me. Or not. Actually, to be honest, I'm not quite sure whether I'm going to express it or not about what Amnesty International is, what its role in the world is. At this point, where serious warnings are being made on many sides, or perhaps we are not overreacting with debates, by expressing threats, security risks, Amnesty International is satisfied. However, he was not satisfied one year ago when we carried out certain measures to ensure the safety of both people crossing the Republic of Slovenia after the so-called humanitarian corridor, as well as the security of people and property in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, it was quite a hallo, if you remember, including demonstrations, which we did not all have and what gruesome debates we had in the National Assembly. That he doesn't even talk about the public. And these debates still exist today. Not long ago, when we were talking about whether the people to be taken care of, organised and in a well-known place to settle or to move freely in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, there was a lot of excitement and considerable action by civil society. Legitimate. I don't have any problems. But whether we want to do something serious about the risks we are talking about, whether we are going to separate them, whether these threats are based on real risk, or whether it's just some fear of the unknown, whether what I expect to happen as a liberal: respect for human rights and that in every citizen of the Earth, I will not only tell every citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I see a man with all his rights. Once again, my experience is good, I don't have one bad experience. I hope so, and I believe so. I hope and I believe they will also be authorized. In view of what I have read, that the objectives of the law are, and I do not see that they are intended to address this issue, whether we stop talking about it, we no longer associate it with terrorist threats and risks, or whether it is established in the law that the aim is to organise society because of security risks, because of threatening terrorism or terrorist actions. If I go to the last question, then I'll leave my colleague some more time if I'm only dealing with the privacy issue. A while ago, I asked the students how they felt about these questions of information privacy. You won't believe it. Young people don't deal too much with the privacy issue. That's not a question for them. If you're not on Facebook, you're not. They do not deal with understanding their participation, their active activity through the Internet as an intrusion or as a threat to their privacy. They understand that because of the technological developments we are in, it is necessary to give up privacy. I can understand young people, we can do things as parents, we can do things as old parents, if this is the current topic for quite some time, we can influence, because old parents will certainly be able to teach our children more about this than we can do ourselves, using information technology every day, when they say that it is possible and that it is possible to live without information technology. Or an event from about a week ago when one of the teachers told me: “When I told them to put your cell phones down, there was a big surprise.” Class, mixed class, girls and boys didn't know what to do with themselves and each other, in short, the question of relationship. In the society in which we live, we swear on technological development, including my fellow liberals, so I said and again, I speak on the basis of Article 82, paragraph 1. A large part of liberals also believe that technological progress, technological development, innovation, investment must take precedence over individual rights. We're just going to step back a little bit from human rights. Yeah, sure, 'cause it's been 70 years since World War II. When our tolerance for human rights incursions has increased considerably, we are no longer sensitive because we have no real experience of human rights incursions. I'm afraid that it's in a good work, I believe that the legal and legal service will also warn you about it, so I really am putting my heart at your disposal to consider those provisions that speak of us as individuals, as a society giving up our privacy for some of the higher goals. And let us ask ourselves whether it is really necessary, whether it is appropriate and in a narrower sense or proportionate, whether it is justified to have so much control for reasons called threats, security threats, threats to the individual, to the police, to society as a whole, to the economy and so on and so on, which is all the more reason in this law. We need to ask ourselves seriously earlier when we are talking about police powers. I understand and believe – that it will not be misunderstood – that the police are working professionally. You've never heard me criticize anything. However, we must remain wise enough not to fail the exam, which is called the Goal of Dedication. To make a more professional, more efficient police force just in case, because there are various forms of threats, we need to give broad powers to the police because they are not in themselves obliged to give their lives in order to protect attacks against others because of the service of various crimes. When I'm doing this, and I'm going to end it, we have all the crime scenes that give the police powers in this information area, because we use, collect, process data, because there is a threat, because there is a goal that I haven't really seen to prevent. Is this in line with our legal order in this work, so that because we believe that someone can commit one of these crimes on one side? I'm sorry, I'm afraid that this bill with these solutions that we have today means that we are all a potential terrorist threat, that we are a risk to this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. In any event, the proposed powers constitute an intervention in the privacy of an individual, and the possibility of human rights interventions is, in fact, already under the current law. As I understand it, this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Tasks and Powers follows in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court requiring the regulation of the storage of DNA samples taken back in 2014 and some of the shortcomings of the current law. I am convinced that the proposal follows modern trends and procedures in police work in the European Union. According to the management of the Police or the Ministry of the Interior, this is not about extending powers, but rather about new approaches, new working methods, technical solutions, including the exercise of the current scope of powers. As it is said, only the method of implementation changes. The Secretary of State may correct me in this. Further explanations on the use of a paralyser, on which I must also lean, ensure that the introduction of a paralyser is fully in line with the Ministry of Health and Amnesty International. And most importantly, health will not be compromised because it does not work on man’s will to resist, but on his ability to resist. This means that the effects are predictable. On my explicit question of how a paralyser affects people who, for example, have cardiac stimulants, it has been ensured that there is no danger for these people, too, because a paralyser acts on a different frequency than a cardiac inducer. So in this case, it's a better option than a gun. To work for 2.3 minutes, to be recorded and to be used only by intervention groups qualified to work with this type of repressive agent. I would also like to mention solutions concerning the definition of conditions for the collection of data by air passengers. This is one of the consequences of measures to prevent and detect terrorism. Optical recognition of registration plates in road traffic control is a new form of road traffic control, which already belongs to the core tasks of the police they already have. According to the proponents' assurances, abuse will also be prevented due to a higher level of police education. Of course, we are living in a time when security will also have to be taken care of and sacrificed. I will therefore support the bill at this stage because I assess it to be suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. I must say that it surprises me, a pleasantly surprising debate by my colleague Mitj Horvat, who in fact made many arguments, which I hope the Ministry of the Interior will also take them into account, because I have to agree with him very deeply in a number of matters which he highlighted. At this point, I would like to point out that the law in force on the duties and powers of the police is only valid for three years. First, we should ask ourselves whether the police need new powers, whether they have too many or enough. It's also important if we feel safe in the country. I believe that the Secretary of State here will quickly answer me that the world is changing. In Slovenia, too, they can change quickly. That's what it is. But if that's why the cops need extra powers, I don't know. It is understandable, however, that the safety of citizens and citizens is at the top of the agenda, and it is therefore agreed that appropriate legislation must be adapted, assuming that there are indications that we do not feel safe. But Slovenia is one of the countries that, despite the changed security circumstances, is one of the safest countries. Of course, I also agree that this can change. In the bill we have to deal with, we have the wishes of the police. Police officers are the ones who detect the problems they face every day in their field work. Some of their desires have wanted to be legalized for a good decade. Well, let me remind you, if you'll excuse me. The electric paralyzers were used experimentally by the Slovenian police in a special police unit where they had 15 devices, at the time when Mr Rado Bohinc was led by the interior ministry. Then it was inherited by Dragutin Mate, who did not prohibit the paralysers, and according to a police report that they were not suitable for use, decided not to introduce you or will not use you permanently. At the time of Minister Kresalov and Secretary of State Klemenčič, however, the paralysers ceased. Why do I think that paralysers are not suitable for use or should be very careful when used, especially in people at risk, such as elderly, pregnant, children and those with heart disease? In doing so, I am asked whether a police officer is capable enough to assess an individual as a person at risk. As a person at risk in these specific cases, which I have cited, only a child can be evaluated by a policeman. There is also a fear that these paralysers would be used more frequently than would necessarily be necessary. The information officer shall also point to other traps or excessive interferences in the privacy of individuals. That is why it is so important that when we accept the new powers of the police, we behave with care, thoughtfulness, restraint, as we will determine by adopting the law what degree of privacy we will enjoy for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite the fact that the information officer was actively involved in the drafting of the laws, as the Secretary of State has already stated, you have run quite a few rounds, but we have obtained a new explanation, or a new opinion, that the comments have not been taken into account. It points out that in some cases it is a matter of reducing the level of protection of privacy that should not be allowed as a democratic state. It points out, however, the following: the terrorist control of all air passengers, including passengers on internal flights, the tyrannical control of all vehicles and vehicle owners, which will be covered by equipped vehicles of traffic and border police, the narrow general basis for the use of unmanned aircraft in carrying out police tasks, the general basis for the collection of biometric data, photographs, fingerprints, oral swabs, samples of fluid for the performance of police duties. This is reflected in the opinion of the Information Officer. The core concerns, however, that the police thus have a new technical opportunity to collect and process certain data on a larger number of individuals without any suspicion of a particular individual or of legally permissible cases of routine control. So we'll all be suspects until we prove otherwise. In view of the above and of the arguments put forward by the information officer in particular, such an intervention in privacy cannot be supported. The key to this is, which is also based on the Code of Police Ethics, which has 10, we will say, almost the commandments, among which is the first value and virtue to be followed by police officers, and that is to serve people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	After all these debates, one begins to wonder if we need the police at all. That's amazing to me. We have such a great paradox here. On the one hand, we have great confidence in the police, on the other hand, we have an unknown mistrust, and then we begin to speak. Once we demand greater security, on the other hand we demand more human rights. Mix it all together. It's not working. The basic question to me is, do we even know what we want? I would ask myself another question: Is this some fundamental mistrust in the work of the police? And if this is the basic mistrust of the police, it comes from the past, when the police were also quite politically discolored. But I think she's certainly modernised and democratized over the past 25 years. But if we have problems in this sense that we don't trust her and that we have this ambivalent relationship, like we have with athletes when they're super good at the top, and as soon as they're 7, 8. The city, it's already very bad. We're acting very strange. I think that it is necessary to give validity to the experts and the police, if not for another reason, perhaps because of the fact that someone has read it, there are annexes to this law. We have an expert analysis on the electrical stunner, on the control of the registration numbers, on the collection and storage of data. Yes, we can debate, we can debate the fact that most of the police have done so. Again, it is questionable whether this is democratic. But, people of God, if once we don't trust one such body as the police, then we've lost direction. Because we're actually tearing things down in front of us and then creating some kind of emptiness, some kind of chaos where it's possible to manipulate, behave and be a hypocrite. The police, through all the statistics and analysis, are doing more than properly their work, which is a matter of all honour and should be congratulated once again on all the police and police officers for the proper work they have done. But that there are deviations within – of course they are, because they are everywhere, as they are in life, so they are there. And that one marriage will save all that will not happen is not possible. And we all know that. Because no marriage has ever done this, that everything is clean, beautiful, that only the flowers grow. It's not. That's not what it is, and it can't be. If we're right about all this, yes, we have to be careful about this, there have to be controls, but the police have all these guards. On the other hand, there is still this outer sphere that cares and watches that we do not go into extremes. If we are right to do everything together, this government and this minister with her team have done the most for the security of the police, who are also citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the final stages. And there's something about them that can be safe. And by this law, we are also taking steps to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Šefic, gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps some additional explanations or attempts to answer. First, with regard to covert control and dedicated control. Of course, it already exists in the existing law. In this case, we are only adapting to the new European regulation. I must say that we have had far less action in this area in Slovenia. However, it is also important in terms of protecting our Schengen borders, preventing cross-border organised crime, so that this is not a new mandate, but it is only a matter of harmonisation. I must also say that, with the Ministry of Justice in relation to this law, we are fully in line, the only thing that has been said, and what has been said, is the principled position of the Ministry of Justice on the paralyser, irrespective of the regulation, but of course it remains with the Minister. Mr Horvath, Mr Horvath, pointed out a number of dilemmas that are on the ground, are the issues that we are dealing with and are now dealing with. All the time. This balance between security and human rights is always extremely important. However, I must point out that I cannot agree that these measures are intended solely for the fight against terrorism. Of course, there is one part of measures to combat terrorism, but there is a type of novelty that also affects the area of ensuring public order and peace, investigating other crimes. All the offences referred to in the individual measures are real and are encountered by the police, detection and prosecution authorities every day. It's not something abstract, something that might be in stock. But that's what we're dealing with today. To be effective, we need effective resources. The fact is, organised crime, perpetrators of crime are increasingly sophisticated. They follow modern trends, if I may say so. And the police have to follow this if they want to be effective. Either we will consciously assume or somehow accept that in certain areas we will have a lower level of security or detected crimes, which we probably cannot agree on, since, last but not least, the issue of greater efficiency in investigating economic crime, banking crime, etc. is often raised in the National Assembly. And lastly, let me mention that some of the powers are also, I'll say, purely meant to save lives. I'm talking about finding people. How many times do we get from the police and from the Ministry of Family Affairs to carry out certain activities, but we can't do them because we don't have them in the marriage. And if we don't have them in our marriage, we can't execute them. By this law, we now allow the police to have, under certain conditions that are accurately recorded, guards in all powers or in the use of funds installed, the principle of proportionality and safeguards are also in place everywhere. I am not saying that everything is ideal, and that is why we will also be giving the floor, as if the Minister were here, that we will also make all these comments and also the comments made by the information officer after the beginning of the procedure of this law, it is said, after the adoption by the Government, that we will also consider this, because, to us, this law is actually the same as I said in the first place, effective, but also so that it will not unduly interfere with human rights. Of course, as we say, we have already identified the balance between human rights and security in some of the other documents and resolutions that we have adopted. The law on the tasks and powers of the police was adopted four years ago. Like I said, some flaws and weaknesses have turned out. It's something common. With this kind of legislation on the one hand, and in the case of a very rapidly changing security environment, and yet here I think it is, at least as far as we are concerned, or I expect agreement in this circle, but not only about terrorism, I agree with Dr. Horvato, terrorism has always been, not since yesterday, and it has not started in 2001 but, long ago, even in our immediate surroundings, we have also met with terrorism. But there are other threats, as it were, in the field of international organised crime, banking crime, economic crime and so on. This law must be adapted to these new circumstances. And believe me, this is also in the very explanations, as we have repeatedly pointed out, a thorough assessment of what this law has brought, where there are weaknesses and what will give the novelties of marriage. I cannot agree, but here I should correct what was said in the debate, the wishes of the police. It's not the cops' wishes, it's the police's needs, it's the police's safety. It is our responsibility to provide these officers with security, because only then can they protect all of us. Otherwise, if the police themselves are threatened and alone, which unfortunately happened to us this year and last year, they will not be able to protect or implement all measures effectively. I agree with what has been said a little while ago in the debate that we must also be responsible here for this police as an organisation. With regard to the stunner, once again, I would like to stress that traceability is ensured here. Of all the means of enforcement that the police already have, traceability at the highest level is ensured here. It's not just us, not the police, no one in this country to be all suspects. Far from it. I don't think this law is going that way either. As I have pointed out, each measure is replaced by its own safeguards so that the possibility of overstepping or other abuses is extremely limited. However, I initially said that we have systems with which, exceptionally when this happens, we can take appropriate action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Please sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! My fellow Members of the parliamentary group have been very active, so now I am taking advantage of these five minutes and I am asking myself, in this law, the same question as my colleague Ferlug, what we would actually like to do in terms of ensuring security. It is the responsibility of the State as an institution to ensure security for its citizens. Sometimes I'm just trying to picture a cop who has to go into a fire, or maybe last night's brutal attack on the civilian population, with a truck. I would like to discuss security as individuals and social values for the next few moments. I claim that this moment, and perhaps even in the past, even though we have not talked so much about it, is the security of one of the most important, perhaps the most important values. And maybe something that's actually a value. We call values to terms that define things, situations and categories that we value highly and strive to achieve. The definitions are certainly different, each one probably has its own. Some experts refer to values as the notion of what is desirable, which influences how people decide on actions and how they assess phenomena. Slovenian psychologist and researcher Mr Musek believes that values are general and relatively sustainable concepts about the goals and phenomena that we value highly, which relate to the high categories of subordinate objects and relationships, and guide our behaviour. Security, ladies and gentlemen, is a condition for the development of anyone and anything. I think it's an axiom. Without it, therefore, there is no expectation of progress without security, since they have long realized that among the most important values there is security that enables the realization of most of the other values, which is why it is problematic to some of the social sciences such as law, sociology, economy and others. Historically, security is the fundamental value of human relations and its provision is institutionalised by the emergence of a sovereign state and by the system of values between countries. For Thomas Hobbs, an 17th - century English philosopher, he gave some guidance for political philosophy, security was the most fundamental value on which man built his individual and collective lives. The security of individuals and their neighbors in the environment where they work and live is one of the key components of human quality of life. Including human rights and fundamental freedoms, it means a value that is increasingly important in democratic regimes, where people are also aware of their rights and obligations to an increasingly secure life. The individual is therefore seeking his protection primarily in the system, that is, in a particular arrangement or organisation. It can only protect itself and its neighbours up to a certain limit, which depends on the extent of the danger in the environment in which it operates and resides, and on the development of social mechanisms and security instruments. When we talk about the law, the tasks and powers of our Slovenian police, I always get the association and the desire that we should create an environment for our police officers to be motivated by what they do. This is true of all — that we are motivated. But it is we who also create an environment with the budget that we need to create an environment that can then enable motivated police officers. We assess, I personally also, of course, that this law is suitable for further consideration. There will be a need for a thorough reflection on control, and in all systems we need to think about it, and I think we can come up with a good solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. The proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in the context of the votes. I hereby terminate the 21st item of the agenda and also the 15th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 16.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order, 27, 2, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 19, 20, 4, 5 and 29 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2015 (secret). Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: First time. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report on the work of the Commission on the supervision of intelligence and security services in 2015. Another time. The National Assembly shall propose to the Government and the competent intelligence and security services that they take into account the assessments, findings and views of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services in their further work and cooperation with the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing certain laws in the field of health care by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 12. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 4. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group will be presented by Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Because both of these amendments are identical, and even the amendment that follows this first one, I'm going to explain both of them at once. This is a specific matter in this case, namely the secondary health institution, so the hospital is not located in the national mixed area and therefore the Hungarian national community or its members are not allowed to use their mother tongue in an establishment outside the national mixed area de jure. We are aware that the criteria applicable to the establishment of such rights for a national mixed area are not identical to those applicable outside this area, so we apply Article 64 of the Constitution, which provides that rights outside the territory where both indigenous national communities live are regulated by law. In this amendment, it is precisely stated that in only one case, in the case of the nearest such establishment, the possibility of using the mother tongue is possible. So the possibility is possible, and we are trying to publish this word link in this amendment with the word “may”. This therefore does not mean a direct transfer of rights in force in the national mixed area, but merely the possibility of this being settled. This amendment, or this content, is in our judgment of the message. I thank all those who have listened to our views and, above all, to the wishes of the Hungarian Hungarian National Community to settle the matter. Our case is different from that of the Italian community because there is no problem there. There the institutions are located in the national mixed area, while in our case it is different. I hope that with this text we have upgraded these options without exceeding the current constitutional level, and meaningfully resolved this matter, which is a step forward in the use of the indigenous language of the national community outside the area where it has been living indigenously for years. We will also support this amendment and the amendment to Article 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	I'm asking if anyone else is on behalf of the Group of Members. No, no, no. An explanation of the vote on its own behalf will be presented by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much, President. Before I went to vote, I heard some comments, but why should Hungary be allowed to speak outside because the law tells where it is. This Slovenian concept that the law must force you to give any additional benefit to a fellow citizen is already a serious Slovenian, I would say, a poor specialty. They're probably somewhere else, but I'm not interested elsewhere. If you go to London, they'll find Arabic and German and even Bosnian in the hospital, I doubt Slovenian, maybe even. No one says: "The law compels us." This is part of basic human rights, part of the culture of a nation, to allow its citizens beyond a few more rights than is prescribed by law or at least a minimum of what human humanity prescribes. That's why I would, but I won't, but I can say, vote even if it were written binding that at least someone in the hospital should be found who could also speak Hungarian in order to help the people who get there, but unfortunately for me, the MPs of the nationality did not propose it. But in this case, not only do I say that I will vote, I call on others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Mr Roberto Battelli will present the explanation of the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The last paragraph of Article 4 of the current law states: “In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the patient shall be granted the right to communicate with healthcare professionals and health professionals in the Italian or Hungarian languages at the level of knowledge referred to in paragraph 2 or 3 of this Article.” That's what's going on now. Let me draw attention to the fact that this provision will not apply to the Hungarian national community if we do not accept these two amendments, because the hospital is in our case in Isola, and in the case of the Hungarian national community is the only nearest hospital in Murski Sobota. Already in education for some vocational schools there is a possibility in law to teach Hungarian language outside those congregations where the Hungarian national community is historically living. The Constitution itself makes this possible because of such cases, and these are the only exceptions. So, please, it does not appear that the country would have one treatment, as I would say, for the Italian national community and a worse and different treatment for the Hungarian national community. So I appeal to your state's conscience and awareness that this disciplinarian is going away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 10. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Articles 4 and 10 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles? No, no, no. Then we move on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 12. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 15. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Bill of Supplements to the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Public Finance Balance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Public Finance Balance Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be presented by Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party or in the Slovenian Democratic Youth, our young man, we want the law we have proposed. To achieve two. The first is that the money collected from concessions from student work is divided into a large number of young people. The second objective we want to achieve with this law is to divide it more transparently. What's this all about? Approximately €9 to €10 million is collected annually from student work. This money is directly obtained by the Student Organisation of Slovenia without any invitation to tender without any supervision, which is obtained by those who are friends and have a function in this organization. What do we suggest? We suggest that this money be distributed differently. If we take the example of, let's say, getting 9 million euros a year, we propose that the next distribution should still get good 3 million Students' Organisation Slovenia, the good 700,000 euros will be directly obtained by local community students' clubs, about a million 400 of this money will go to the scholarship fund and just under 4 million will be given to the Slovenian Office for Youth. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth is a umbrella organisation that oversees the youth sector. This umbrella organisation prepares a number of calls each year for 100 and more youth organisations. Of course they have to meet the conditions. When they get the money, they also have to file a report on whether they spent that money on what they reported it for and how they used it. In this way, we believe that more young people would be entitled to the money that young people themselves collect. This is said to be in some way solidarity and young people get money for study and study activities. I will not speak here, colleagues and colleagues, you know how to spend the money of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. If you type in student officials, corruption is a word that denotes this student organisation. And it's the right thing to call it the end. None of us, from you or the organization, get that kind of money. Imagine that the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia would simply receive EUR 9 million and not report to anyone how it spends or to determine for itself the authorities and internal supervisors who would watch over this spending. Please, all of us are full of mouths, fighting corruption, how we are for young people. This law means two – fighting corruption and working for the benefit of young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Mr Saša Tabaković will present his explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. At the time of the discussion of this novel in the SMC Group, we explained in detail the legislative levels of the student organisation funding system under the student service concession fee. This is an area covered by two ministries, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. If we really want to implement the basis for transparency and proper functioning of student organisations, which we have seen in the parliamentary group as an acute candidate, the Law on the Community of Students, which explicitly sets out the supervision of the Court of Auditors, the regulation of public procurement and the introduction of anti-corruption clauses, should be simply amended. This has also been done by the Ministry of Education at the initiative of the Committee on Education, and has also done somehow in line with the interests of the student public, which means that the law or novelty is already in public debate. Members of the National Assembly also received a notice from the Student Organisation and the Student Organisation of Iskra by e-mail that this is indeed the case. The applicant shall also condition transparency by cutting the funds itself before they reach student organisations at all. For this part, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, which has already explained in the debate itself that this reallocation of funds must take place in agreement with the student public and, ultimately, the reallocation of funds cannot yet properly address transparency itself. Since the dialogue between the applicant and the student public stakeholders was not arbitrary or the proposal has arisen, so far there is no support for the SMC proposal in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Supplements to the Law of Succession. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on succession is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	As you know, a new scandal of our courts was rekindled some time ago, and since 1945 it has been found that 5 thousand 429 wills have been established. As a result, no announcement was made. With the proposed amendment to the law on succession, we want to regulate things in the Slovenian Democratic Party in a way that will work, because the fact is that the current legislation does not allow this. We also propose, in the same procedure, that this change be made substantially, namely that no compensation is required for the entry into this single central register. This is important and can certainly contribute to more successful implementation or activities related to the area of inheritance and also to the will. The fact is, the unannounced wills of anyone in this room can't leave you cold. It is important, however, that we put the existing law on cold ground and that you support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which now regulates or improves these matters and will certainly bring a positive benefit in the end. I'm calling to mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law to remedy the consequences and to compensate for the damage caused by undeclared wills. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law to remedy the consequences and to compensate for the damage caused by undeclared wills is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The fact is that citizens were harmed. Damage from the courts, as a result of the state. It's up to us to undo this damage now. The proposed law brings exactly that in the country all those harmed by it bereft of serious injustice be granted at least material satisfaction. Of course, this injustice must be rectified by those who have left their own, I will say, the legacy, as did those who have received it unjustifiably, but they did not know it. And that's exactly what this law regulates. The fact is that we cannot allow a country in this country, on the one hand, to literally take money for 100 euros for its citizens when it comes to debt claims and on the other hand, to turn away when it finds that it has violated not only legislation but also the constitution. It is a first reading and it is a matter of being able to find faults or other solutions together, but it is important that we react, for in this way again we leave certain citizens as second-class citizens and even encourage them to defend themselves. What does that look like?Oh, my God! First you take the wrong stuff away from him, then you say you have to get justice. This is unacceptable and the current situation we have in law does not allow this to be resolved in a manner that is appropriate. It's a complex matter, it's about 5,000 wills and more, and it's about that many and many more heirs who have been deprived here. So I ask that you consider this proposal and consider supporting the law and regulating it in the way that the rule of law or the rule of law is appropriate. The fact is that guilt has been done and it is our job to correct it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group will be presented by Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Modern Centre Party, we regret the situation which we have set out in our position and also in our debate explicitly - but we believe that both the Constitution and the legal basis give all legitimacy and the basis for the compensation for the damage that has occurred to citizens. We believe that there is no need for a special law in this case, as such regulation of both the Constitution and the law is sufficient, and we will not support the proposed specific legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Would anyone like a word on behalf of the Group of Members or on their own behalf? Mr Roberto Battelli will present the explanation of the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support this bill. In an official explanation given by the Ministry of Justice, the fact that a certain number of these wills had been written in Italian was, inter alia, given as a reason for the non-declaration of the will. Regardless of the language in which one will is written, it must not be declared as such. He just can't. Even when we adopted the Notariat Act years ago, there was quite a debate as to whether notaries should know so much Italian and Hungarian, especially because of older people's will. Since there was one amendment, it was precisely because of this change in the law of notariat. So I'll support the proposal. I know it's probably in vain, but I'll back it up because it's outrageous not to announce the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	Mr Primož Hainz will present the explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will not support this law alone, but for a simple reason, among other things, because it is not even content. If the Social Democratic Party were to take it seriously, then it would be here, and simply no proposal can go through because there are not because there are fewer than half of them in the vote. How can they expect a proposal to be adopted at all? I will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will explain the vote on her own behalf. [[advertising from the hall]] Please disengage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you for letting me at least tell you. The fact is that we are enough in the National Assembly today to remedy the damage that has caused to our citizens and citizens. It is also a fact that existing legislation does not allow this. The burned judge, now Deputy Supreme Court of Bettova, gave the citizens the following letter: “Honored! We apologize for the damage caused and send you into the process of justification." Is that a solution, Your Honor? First you rob citizens literally and then you ask them to justify themselves and hire dear judges. Mrs. Klemenčič Zidar may have promised you a new contract, but we are obliged to return this, Your Honor. It's a shame that someone here at the National Assembly is saying they won't back something up because there's no one on the other side in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 48. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Bill of Amendments to the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. By trying to correct a law that we will support, we are touching on a topic that is crucial to the Slovenian future. The division in the Slovenian nation and the population at large, caused by the occupation and the bloody revolution, the civil war and the usurpation of power, is still one of the traumatic themes. This chapter will have to be closed in order that it cannot be skipped. First the truth, then the legal epilogue, then the regret and the repentance, and finally the reconciliation. Before history, those who do not understand this will be excused and who today will vote against the amendment of the law, which even the dead relatives share in the first and second classes. Such conduct and this vote and debate is not the only one in this category, which inhibits the development of the Slovenian people and of Slovenia and pushes it into a space called a dead civilization. This regulation, which we are trying to correct by this law, is also contrary to the fundamental international law ratified by Slovenia, whereby crimes against humanity and genocide are not obsolete. States are obliged to prosecute these crimes. There's no kissing here. Slovenia will face the international dimension of the fact that these fundamental principles of international law are being violated by the State in the future. Those who count on things to be forgotten — they will not be forgotten. At the end of the 1930 ’ s, the National Socialist Workers Party in Germany had a debate on the final solution to the Jewish issue, the extermination of Jews or Jews. One of the Nazi Februarys asked Hitler if he thought history would forget it, and he said, "Turkish killed the Armenians 20 years ago, and no one remembers it." He was very wrong. Today everyone remembers the Holocaust, and this year at the 100th anniversary of the genocide against Armenians, the European Parliament adopted a special resolution on this. So you don't forget that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 59. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 59.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on personal assistance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on personal assistance is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	The New Slovenia Group will be most pleased to support this conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all the parliamentary groups and all the Members who, last day, expressed your willingness to support this decision and that the law will continue its procedure. However, as we have already said, we are prepared as proposers for further coordination, in particular in areas that have been identified by some in the debate as critical and still need to be finalized. However, I believe that, at the beginning of next year, we will be able to bring this law under the roof definitively after many years of waiting and promise. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled, as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the exercise of rights from public funds by means of a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 16. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 2. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members who will support the fact that our children living below the poverty line will all receive a free school lunch. We also tabled two amendments. Let me talk about the other one first. The Coalition has deleted the provision on mandatory notification of all beneficiaries at the home labour body of the law. In the United Left, we propose an amended provision providing for the notification of all beneficiaries within 30 days. If anyone, then the Ministry has all the information. These data are also the basis for all the calculations they make and they probably know who the beneficiaries are. They'll probably have something to do with it, but this is definitely a job to do. We are informed from the field that many parents do not report children for free lunch or subsidised meals because they simply do not know whether they are justified or not. We are therefore of the opinion that information should remain in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 49. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 3. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	The amendment to Article 3 states that the law should enter into force as from 1 January 2017. For the law must be put into effect as soon as possible, for we have lost a great deal of time. While the coalition stands in the position to enter into force in February. This date is advocated by the need for technical preparation of schools. However, let me use the words of one of the principals that this is a sweet and pleasant obligation and they will be happy to prepare for it. Come on, support this amendment and let the children, as we now have on January 2nd as a day off, let the children get this free lunch on their first school day in 2017. We've lost enough time, we've been talking about this for a year and a half, and we don't want to, and there's no point in losing another month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 27 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 16 July 2016. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 1. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 5. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left to Article 5 shall become irrelevant. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, on every occasion, we are committed to a consistent abolition of the return on social benefits. If the coalition wants to seriously address the problem created in 2012, it has to change the original proposal and remove the limit to €120,000, because this proposal is highly discriminatory to all poor people living in the centre of Ljubljana or Primorskie, when we know that what a wardrobe is worth €120,000 while elsewhere in the countryside is a fairly large house. In short, it is absolutely not the case that it is necessary to always set limits. If the number of recipients as a result of our proposal were to increase by a further thousand, it would still be €1.8 million per year. This is extremely small in terms of the budget, and from the point of view of an elderly woman from some poor farm who was deprived of the only income, this would be a huge old state pension. She won't take that money abroad or buy herself some fancy car, but she'll be instantly spent here and now for her daily needs. That is why I call on Members of the coalition in particular to remove the limit of €120,000, because this proposal, as I have already said, cannot be the subject of return, as has already been said, of the discriminatory and housing unit in which the applicant lives. We also said that whoever owns the house should sell it and then live in a much cheaper apartment. But, you know, many people give up social benefits just because they want to leave their children at least this. The country has no strategy, every young person has no opportunity to get to an apartment, many are unemployed and employees should work for more than 30 years if they did not eat and drink to get to an apartment. In short, at least the home where a person is born should be untouchable and not the object of return and sealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-20-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 50. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 5 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left Group shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 52. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 7 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 51. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 50. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, this is the handling of the Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the demands of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Department, for the permission of the National Assembly to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the Magi. Bojano Mursich. The request was referred to the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members in relation to the request of the Maribor District Court, Investigation Section, No. I CRC 48334/2016, of 8. 12. 2016, for the authorisation of the National Assembly for the initiation of criminal proceedings against the Member of the Magi. Bojano Muršič does not recognise the immunity of a member of the Magi for having committed a crime of abuse of an official position or official rights under the third paragraph of Article 257 of the Penal Code and the criminal offence of incriminating a crime of crime or of destroying a business document under Article 235(1) of the Penal Code relating to the first paragraph of Article 37 of the Penal Code. Bojani Mursich. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. Members and members of the College will be informed that it will be held at 17. 55 in room 217 began the 83rd meeting of the College.
