ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, hello, good afternoon! A very special greeting to the guardian lady with the team! I begin by continuing the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Andrej Čuš, Mr Matjaž Han, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Matjaž Germany from 12 noon onwards and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker from 19:00. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 16. This is the annual annual report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2015, with a proposal for a recommendation. The twenty-one regular annual report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and all guests invited to the meeting. Pythagoras said a very important thought: Life is like the Olympics; some are losing, others are fighting, others are watching. And surely it is also the Keeper of Human Rights who watches life in our country. Presentation of the Ombudsman's annual report is an opportunity to say, otherwise it is difficult in 15 minutes to present what we have done last year, what we have achieved, what our recommendations are and what the future of people in the Republic of Slovenia should be like to respect human rights. Of course, by the end of October each year, it is always happening, at this meeting it is difficult to pass the current events as well; but this report is certainly for the previous year, that is 2015. It has 430 pages, this certainly points to our work, how much we have written down, how many cases there are that require reactions, and where we have detected good governance or poor governance. When the Ombudsman reviews the situation in Slovenia on the basis of initiatives, he cannot go beyond the broader issues. Statistics are some indicator; but not the ones on which to say so many initiatives, so many violations, so many perceptions. Surely, there is also daily life with us, which you bring to the National Assembly, when you adopt legislation when you break opinions, media, events for everyone, all that is what our view of the control bridge dictates. The guardian on this control bridge stands and listens to what people tell on the one hand, these are our initiators and initiators, and when he finds out what the situation is on the other hand, the parties to the institutions that are important to people in the country tell us what is wrong. Of course, he can see that many things have changed. Every time our report is submitted to the National Assembly, the President, he will also have a reception with the President of the Republic and the President of the Government. All of these are opportunities when we can at least briefly erase the state of human rights. But most importantly, you start when everyone who gets our reports starts with a serious piece of work and a review of what is written. Our report, which is on 430 pages, is not the only one; we have an additional report on over 200 pages. This is a very important report from the State Preventive Mechanism, which has been closely monitoring the situation in Slovenia in recent years in an area where people have limited freedom of movement. It is not just prisons, it is not just police, asylum homes, it is also the homes of older citizens and psychiatry; so two very important areas where, when people are deprived of their freedom of movement, when people are in a different position than they are in freedom and at home, they may also be in violation of certain rights; perhaps because of the situation they are in, they cannot see it. That is why the Ombudsman is very closely monitoring this situation. This additional report, as you have noticed, is different even this year, so for last year. For with each of our recommendations, and these are few, let us also write how those who have received it have received it; whether it is already realized, whether it is in the way of salvation and realization, or not at all. And here I am happy to say that there are extremely few matters that the authorities think are not properly identified. It is much already realized and I have set myself a goal when I became a guardian, that I will never only look at the situation in that year; but I will also have to look back, because some of the recommendations have not been implemented for years. We could now say that it is time for us to move forward and start by fully respecting human rights in some, including neglected areas. Our work is very different, one way comes, this is increasingly electronic, mail. They show people's problems in very different areas. There is enough here — from despair, grief, petitions, anger, expectations. We get over 11,000 of these mails, but some also have very many attachments, including 100 and more additional attachments, so this mail is also some indicator, but certainly not enough. We also go to the field, and every year we do at least 12 external businesses in different municipalities across Slovenia; but we cannot avoid in particular those with very high unemployment rates every year. The very degree of unemployment in certain areas also conditions the situation, as well as the incentives and incentives that come to us, talk about the severe social distress, the problems they have because they have no work or wages, the problems of those who are on the verge of life, who are either disabled, who are poor, who walk from door to door and seek their right. There's always an opportunity in the field to meet the mayor. The mayors also explain the situation in the individual municipality, and, as you know, we are always interested in the situation for the most vulnerable, how in health care in the individual municipality, how to deal with roads that are still on private land, how to respect the environment, how to care for the most vulnerable, including the disabled. We always go to places close to both minorities, because it seems important to me that they have the opportunity to come to the northeast and to the south to report to us whether the rights of the national communities are violated. Of course, it is difficult to cover everything we experience in these few minutes, which is why the report is as extensive as it is, even with individual cases that point to certain infringements. You could say that statistics are a state indicator, but they certainly aren't perfect. Because in some cases someone can turn to us, and we immediately detect irregularities, we react, and the situation for others, such a case were scholarships for deficient professions, improved. There were no more applications, since the same day, although this year, the invitation to tender was cancelled. Six thousand young people would have been affected, and only a few of them would have turned to us. So you can't say the situation wasn't worrying, but we reacted immediately. And that's why these numbers, as well as the justification of initiatives, are some indicator; but not large enough and not exact. The initiative can be groundless because it is given to us too early because people have not yet made use of the legal means they should have. Unfortunately, then, we cannot foresee a solution that will eventually, because when the matter is resolved, they usually do not report anymore. And then it's written down that it's even groundless. However, for this particular reason, if we knew what would happen in a few years if we were told, or a few months from now, we could also consider the initiative justified. Working with the media is also of great importance to us, as morning clicks bring 50, 100 news and additional afternoons. The media shows what is happening in Slovenia, what people are alerting people to. Our areas of work are – 4 deputies – 1 deputy and 3 deputies – strictly divided. If I touch briefly on the area, which is also the most important, socio-economic rights for people, of course people are also humming over the slow work of the country, slowing down their decisions on the complaints they are making; the fact that it is difficult to survive if you ask humanitarian organisations to give you some assistance with social support. Here is the lost dignity of many people. These stories in the social field, where you could say that I belong to people from birth to death, are disabled, children, the oldest, people with special needs, are still touching any of us on our team that has to decide whether or not they're broken or what to do. He's often involved in legislation. Therefore, at meetings with all ministers, we remind ourselves of what we have found and how to hurry with legislation, which is often very late. It's up to you. This is also an area of health that still touches people. Health, everyone should have someone close to him who, at the time of his worst, would welcome him not to wait; that he would not become one of those who might make his health worse because of the long waiting period. It's a lot of affair. There are many stories told by people who do not believe that everything is as it should be. And yet I think it's a good thing to talk about, but let's not forget the good things. There are also many well-made, many good people working in these institutions; and we are therefore also reminding the Ombudsman of good governance. If anyone can apologize, repay the damage, he's certainly worth all the credit. Still excites people with pension insurance, young people certainly do a little less because they think they won't be able to see it at all. The older ones who were already there, who were already close, but who were paying for it, who did not get everything they thought, are, of course, very angry, they are very disappointed because they feel that they should be granted the rights they hoped they would and will be in time. The time takes change, the time of poverty is never pleasant; but it can certainly be a great challenge to draw the best that we can, to do the best we can. When the beautiful times of pouring honey and milk surely make it easier for everyone in the country in charge, even for the Keeper. Let me move on to an area that also touches many stories, that is the area of justice, police procedures, the seizure of freedom. An area where everyone can have his own story and expectations. Justice is a special concept. The Ombudsman and we are also concerned that these procedures do not run fast enough; that people reach their goal, even though it is very difficult to say that the solution for both is fair in cases where they are opposite the two. Surely one will leave the court disappointed, even from the highest, even from the Constitution, even from the European one, because everyone sees his right differently. However, if the trial is of good quality, if it takes place in short periods, we will certainly do enough. I must say that there has never been as many legislative proposals as there is now. Never have so many meetings of the various committees for which we receive invitations to attend. We go to very different meetings, including with the Ombudsman, each week is practically one and there we talk about the subject. I only wish that the legislation promised would also mean progress. I am pleased with all the opinions we have received from the Council of State, from the Commission for Petitions and for the human rights and equal opportunities that our home commission has given us. I am pleased with all the responses in 200 pages of the government's long report. And most importantly, the government will respond even with an interim report in the future, as promised. This will be a great advance, for we will not have to wait for the Ombudsman's new annual report, but we will not only monitor it during the year, but also receive the response of the competent. And I'm really counting on it. There's an environment here. People feel more and more that the environment is not that friendly environment. That capital is sometimes the destiny of many to be seen in movies that were once played, and you have seen when someone is poor, you can be placed close to the polluter because you will have to endure, even at the cost of health. There are many civil initiatives that warn. The guardian meets with all NGOs from very different areas. Last year, we had a whole new issue of escape, which was also very burdensome, and we wrote something about it in the report. We've also done monitoring. Here are the number of areas, such as discrimination against people with disabilities, to different believers, to same-sex people. Here I stress that I am pleased with the progress of legislation, advocate of the principle of equality, the law against discrimination. Here are the minorities, for the first time we have met recently in our annual report, even on the subject of both the Hungarian and Italian national communities, which is very important. There are also disabled people who are still waiting for certain solutions. I look forward to the progress of new legislation on children with special needs; a long story. The story of people who had grown up had died waiting for the state to offer help, and unfortunately it could not. They grew up without the childhood they deserved; and not only did they, and their parents, when they died, had a bad feeling that they had not taken care of them; not the country at all as they should have. The area of discrimination also covers the area of hate speech when you ask yourself where freedom of speech is, where to limit it and when, while we all want freedom of speech. Or sometimes it reaches into your area so badly that you feel hurt so much that you say it, and that's hate speech. The competent institutions shall assess this. So here we have a huge number of areas that we are touching in our report; and at the end we will write 83 new recommendations. I am glad that some are such that they have already come true, that some are close to reality; but sad because some are still in the air. Too little is said about the many problems of people who are hard to live. The area I will mention at the end, which is worth all the attention, is certainly rights from working relations. There are people who are affected, who do not need to understand that they do not get paid, that they are besieged, that someone is serving at their expense; that they can accumulate businesses and use them at their proper time, even though they are the property of his destitute grandmother, who is already approaching the home of older citizens. There's a mobbing, there's a relationship in the work that's slavey. It is difficult to return to slavery when we have survived it long ago and have characterized it for some difficult period. But unfortunately, there are people here who don't even want to talk because they're afraid because they say it's better than having to go and lose that little hope I have. Therefore, at the end of 2015, we prepared a special newsletter on labour rights and violations in this area. It's a long ticket. We had a round table where we discussed with all those covering this area. Unfortunately, in my current meetings with the competent authorities, I also find that everything is not as it should be. Here are the children, we have the Project Advocate – the voice of the child, these are the weak beings you want someone to stand by to help them. And although there is some hope in all these areas, I think we need to hurry. That it must be from that prevention that would be the best, when to cut down even after severe repression. For the judiciary, the inspection services, the bodies that must keep watch over those who violate the rights of work relations and in other fields, are the last hope of men and must not be denied. I hope that the debate will also be constructive and that you will be able to follow our recommendations in this National Assembly and that next year, when I stand here, people in Slovenia will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much, the well-respected Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and human rights and equal opportunities as the parent labour force. It prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the Commission's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! For petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Commission considered the 21st regular annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2015. At the beginning of the hearing, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, who briefly presented the chapters mentioned in the report, received the first word and outlined the main themes. She mentioned the Roma issue, the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities, the lack of staff in prisons, the problem of foreigners and applicants for international protection, problems in justice and long-term procedures, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the situation in the police, the double taxation of migrant workers, the problem of black construction, denationalisation, the burial of victims of post-war beatings, concessions, the field of labour relations and the so-called modern slavery, the areas of pension and disability insurance, the issue of health surveillance, social work centres, the slow handling of complaints and the end of the protection of children's rights. However, the Ombudsman concluded her presentation with a description of the importance of the State preventive mechanism exercised by the Ombudsman within its powers. The representative of the Council of State said that they took note of the Ombudsman's report and assessed it as qualitative and transparent. The report sets a mirror for society every year, but after their assessment of the significant changes, there is no improvement. They propose that the Ombudsman prepare a detailed analysis of the promises made by the State authorities. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the Government had addressed the Twenty-Fifty Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2015 and had expressed its appreciation for the professional and quality work done, which was a good basis for the work of the executive branch when seeking solutions and measures to ensure respect for human rights. The Government has set up a special interdepartmental group in charge of ensuring that the judgments of international courts, in particular the European Court of Human Rights, are properly implemented and implemented in a timely manner. Within the Ministry of Justice, a special permanent project group is being set up to monitor and assist with the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice and other courts, as well as recommendations made by the Ombudsman. The representative of the Government also mentioned the drafting of proposals for three important laws that would contribute to the speeding up of proceedings and the decision-making within a reasonable time frame, namely the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, the amendment of the Law on Justice and the Law on Collective Actions. Finally, he added that they are trying to implement the Ombudsman’s recommendations in the Government, but sometimes there is a reason that the recommendations have not been fully or only partially implemented, in fact that there are insufficient adequate human resources or financial resources. In most cases, however, there is a willingness to make such recommendations as far as possible. The advocate of the principle of equality stressed the problem of the absence of a vision and a strategy for the protection of human rights that the country does not have. He felt that there was a need for some direction to be provided by the Government and that he wanted to show his desire to lead and set an example in this area. He mentioned the issue of eliminating discrimination due to disability and touched on the provision of transport services for students in need of specific adjustments. In the ensuing debate, the members and members of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities gave their views and observations on the content of the report. The area of discrimination was mentioned, including speeches on the Roma community, lack of access to basic infrastructure and basic education. The problem of hate speech was raised, in this regard electronic media and online commentary. After the discussion, we put to the vote working material, a draft proposal for a recommendation of 19. 9. 2016 adopted unanimously by the members and members of the Commission. The members and members of the Commission also voted on the proposals for recommendations of the United Left Group and then on the proposals for recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and rejected them. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation prepared by the Commission as a working body and addressed today by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irgle. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u6	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and Honourable Guardian, both Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents. The Government took note of the 2015 Ombudsman's report and prepared a response report detailing the individual findings and recommendations in each area. As a positive assessment by the Government, many of the recommendations already made have been implemented either in whole or in part. In cases where the recommendations have not been implemented, there is a serious effort and the intention is to implement them as soon as possible. The Ombudsman's report also shows that there is good cooperation between the Ombudsman and the State authorities. The Ombudsman notes in the introductory part of her report that there is a need to continue to maintain and maintain the level achieved in the field of human rights, while at the same time ensuring their continued implementation and respect. As already stated in the government's response report, the Government has taken quite a few systemic measures, which have already been mentioned today, to ensure that this continued preservation and efforts to achieve more fully human rights are effectively ensured in our country. In July 2016, by amending the Law on State Administration, the Ministry of Justice explicitly added the study and planning of the implementation of fundamental human and freedoms. As early as the end of 2014, the Government, by amending the Law on State Administration, authorised the Ministry of Justice to direct ministries with regard to the enforcement of judgments of international courts, which also applies to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The Government has also set up an interdepartmental working group to coordinate the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and a specific project group for the enforcement of judgments is being set up at the Ministry of Justice to provide professional support and assistance for the further implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. In order to make the recommendations of the Ombudsman more effective, the Government or the Ministry of Justice, which, with this year's amendment to the Law on State Administration, is specifically empowered to prepare a summary report on the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations, a special interim report over a half-year period. If possible, we will also ensure this year's transparency of the implementation or implementation of the recommendations themselves in a way that will also be published on the Ministry of Justice's website, which, in the context of the preparation of this interim report, will obtain this data from the ministries. The Ombudsman has also warned for years that Slovenia does not have a full state institution for human rights with status A based on Parisian principles. In this regard, an important step forward was taken during this period, last December the Government adopted a decision that the Ministry of Justice prepared a new Law on the Ombudsman; and in July of this year, the State Administration Act transferred competence for this area to the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has already joined the drafting of the amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman, and we are also cooperating with the Ombudsman. The draft is expected to be ready by the end of this year. With regard to the individual recommendations made by the Ombudsman, which together this year is slightly less than in the previous period, I would like to point out that the Government is indeed working through its departments to enable their implementation or implementation to be achieved to the greatest extent possible. More detailed measures and results have been presented in a written report, which is an integral part of the text of today's meeting. Finally, in the opening part, I should like to express my special thanks to the Ombudsman and her colleagues on behalf of the Government. In short, your professional work, findings and recommendations provide an excellent guide for the work of the executive branch of the Authority in ensuring and implementing human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Old. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Mrs Eva Irgl, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u8	Once again, thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members, respectable guardian of human rights! We have before us this time the 21st regular annual report on the work of the Ombudsman, which describes the human rights violations caused in 2015. Before I go to the contents of the report, let me first look at the key tasks of the Guardian. The Ombudsman must protect the individual in contact with public authorities, local authorities and public authorities and must monitor their work. Sometimes the Ombudsman is successful, but sometimes a little less. It must make proposals, opinions, criticisms or recommendations to the public authorities. The Constitutional Court may refer a proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality of the rules or a constitutional appeal for violations of human rights. The Government and Parliament can give initiatives to amend laws and regulations. In the annual report of the Ombudsman, including in this twenty-one, which we are considering today, he also makes a large number of recommendations, some of which are repeated over and over again, which means that the government here is not proactive enough to listen significantly more to the comments made by the Ombudsman in this sense. The Ombudsman shall also carry out checks on prisons and other premises in which persons deprived of their liberty are held. Also in this report are quite a few pages dedicated to people who are deprived of their freedom. The Ombudsman, however, has another very important task, which I think and even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned that the Ombudsman should visit several times after this. It is a matter of the Ombudsman being able to take a self-initiative approach, without prior notice of anyone else, to the human rights violations that occur or are detected in the social space. Well, here we see the Ombudsman reacting on a number of occasions, or in such important violations as failure to comply with the criminal procedure for the confirmation of the seas, he does not respond at all; but he does so further. I have been closely following the work of the Ombudsman for many years as a Member and also President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. So I had the opportunity to follow up on the work or reports that Mr Matjaž Hanžek delivered to us in this National Assembly, then I was able to follow up on the reports of Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, today we have before us the report of the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer. Of course, the work of human rights guardians differs. But what is most important for the Ombudsman is that he follows the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the laws and that he actually helps people in distress. On the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which is the parent working body for the consideration of this report, the Ombudsman was given a large majority of the cards at the hearing by government departments and coalition members, in particular with regard to a well-formed and aesthetically prepared report, which I agree with myself. However, there were very few constructive criticisms, those fair critical distances, through which you must also draw attention to some unacceptable practices in the field of human rights protection. Especially if it is based on the fact that Slovenia lived in a system that has gravely violated human rights and fundamental freedoms prior to the decision on a single state. There is also a need for special care in the treatment of human rights. The role of the Ombudsman is therefore of paramount importance for the successful functioning of the legal and, above all, of a just society and of a state. In her report and also at the petition session of the Commission, the Ombudsman drew attention to the dignity of a man who must belong to everyone. I myself, as President of the Commission, have repeatedly or repeatedly warned that human rights, which we have also written in the highest legal act, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, should never and never be trampled on. In particular, infringements should not affect the dignity and integrity of an individual, as such practices have profound consequences; they also leave completely destroyed and damaged individuals whose way can be very tragic. And today, dear fellows and colleagues, it is up to all of us here to maintain human dignity, because this is a key and first task for all of us. It is true, however, that this is an extremely difficult and difficult task, which in the end certainly gives positive results. In 2015, I note that in some areas of protection of human and social rights in Slovenia, standards have been significantly reduced. More and more people live below the poverty threshold, or more people are socially excluded. Many people, especially young people, go abroad because they have better conditions for work there, and to create a better, healthier future for themselves. It is certainly an alarming phenomenon, which is ruled by Miro Cerar, unfortunately is no match. Many people are in financial distress, lonely and in constant struggle for survival, as the guardian also warns in the 21st Annual Report. But it's not just the guardian of human rights who reminds us of that. We are also reminded of this, perhaps even more significant, by the international scales that show us a mirror in which we can see the state of respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the effectiveness of the economic system. Suma sumarum can be said that international scales show the efficiency or inefficiency of the government. And in 2015, respected colleagues and colleagues, even if we close our eyes, fell on all international scales, which should be an alarming information for the government and the competent ministries. The Ombudsman points again to the problem of poverty in the report. Here I agree with her that additional mechanisms will be needed to curb poverty and enable a person to live a decent life; and not just survival. Today, there are about 300,000 people living below the poverty line, most of whom are pensioners and unemployed. And poverty among pensioners is actually a major problem, but the government is obviously not aware of it seriously enough. The average pension is only EUR 580. As a result, the entire Slovenian society, which, like the whole of Europe, is facing the problem of ageing, is suffering poverty. Let me mention just one information: at the beginning of 2015, the children in Slovenia were 14.6% and the older children were 17.55%, which means that there were 300,000 children and 361 thousand older children in Slovenia. So the ratio tells us everything. But when we talk about poverty among the elderly, there is also a kind of absurdity that many pensioners with their low incomes have to take care of their adult children, because they do not get a job. Unfortunately, the state does not establish the necessary mechanisms to improve this impossible but indeed impossible situation. People need work and people need employment; not just to survive, but also because work is a value. The risk of poverty is approximately 10% in the younger than 65 years and more than 20% in the elderly. The main problem is low pensions, and this is what we are deeply aware of in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities are again and again reminding us of this great problem of poverty among the elderly. As much as 60% of pensioners receive less than €622 per month, 40% of pensioners have a pension of less than €500, almost 100,000 have a pension of less than €400, so they live, especially if they live alone. Research also shows that poverty in many elderly people is also often caused by too short-term employment during an active life period. The high indicator is also the inactivity of the elderly in society, often excluded from social networks. Let me mention here a study that has been done specifically in this area that the elderly are excluded from social networks, which shows that the social network does not have as much as 8% of the elderly, and 26% are depressed in this population. As many as 15% of the elderly have been socially excluded in several areas, which we consider – I have already said at one of the meetings – to be a dishonorable second place among countries in the European Union; they are more socially excluded only by older people in Hungary. About 400,000 people in Slovenia suffer social exclusion. There are many who do not even have a basic survival, and they are ashamed to ask for help, respected colleagues and colleagues. I also personally experience this when they call on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. But it's not just this group that's worried about poverty. Unicef's data show that about 15% of children live in poverty in Slovenia and that the most vulnerable group are households with unemployed members and dependent children, which are expected to be around 75%. And here I am wondering what will the Government, specifically the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities do in this area?Oh, my God! We need to know that growing up in poverty has long-term consequences. It is the responsibility of the State to establish such mechanisms, which will prevent poverty, with all its resources available, and to do everything to ensure that those who already live in poverty do not find themselves in an additional situation because they may not be able to get a job, but at home they have children who have to maintain them in a situation of further exposure to social exclusion. Yesterday, when we discussed the point on social contributions to the Slovenian Democratic Party, we warned that we cannot solve the problem of poverty by simply correcting social benefits. First of all, we need to put in place such a policy so that people can actually start employment on the basis of measures. Before the elections, we made it clear in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the best social policy is the new jobs and the decommissioning of the economy. Finally, after two years, the government of Mira Cerar would remember that there is something to be done in this direction. The report of the Ombudsman, which we are considering today, thus shows that people are truly in severe social and economic distress. They are also often faced with extreme institutional ignorance. I do not think of this as President of the Commission on Human Rights, nor do I myself find that the expert members of the Commission have to send a number of ERs to the competent ministries to get an answer at all. This is the first-class ignorance of the people who work in these places. I think that Slovenian citizens deserve at least an answer to the question raised; they do not get it again. Then we are acting as a commission and probably also the Ombudsman; what roles are also played between the Ombudsman and between the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. A few days ago, we had an interview with the Minister of Health. Indeed, this is the current topic, but it is also recorded in the 2015 report. It's a condition that's alarming enough in health to have to talk about. That people are standing in too long a waiting line, that every eighth Slovenian is waiting for some kind of review, and that 246,000 Slovenians are in some sort of waiting line. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a purely basic human right, a right to prompt assistance. All citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are provided with funds in the health treasury. Dear Guardian, you also note for yourself that health reform is necessary, and you expect, you also told the Commission at the time this report was considered, that the Minister will finally prepare in particular the Health Insurance Act and the Health Activity Act. In the report you also note that in 2015 Slovenia reflected the inclusion of Slovenia in the summit of human rights violators at the European Court of Human Rights. You also write the following, quote, "without in-depth analysis, we cannot simply claim that Slovenia is among the biggest human rights violators."As I have already pointed out on the petition committee, I cannot agree with this conclusion. At that time, when we received the report of the European Court of Human Rights, we also convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the Slovenian Democratic Party, where we pointed out that, when the right to a trial was most violated within a reasonable period, all other human rights were subsequently violated. The Ombudsman is therefore a fully sound and relevant information from the European Court of Human Rights that we are the country that has most often violated human rights. Today we should only talk about how we will ensure that Slovenia will no longer be the first in the list of violators in the new report of the European Court of Human Rights. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been pointing out irregularities within the judicial system for a very long time. The Ombudsman also points to them in this report. We note that the justice system is urgently needed for ventilation in the human resources and content fields, so that we are therefore having problems in all areas and social subsystems because there has never been a lustration or at least some kind of reform of the justice system. On the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, we get no more petitions and the role of citizens directly linked to the functioning of the justice system. In fact, people break down at the length of legal proceedings. We know a number of stories where people have literally been around everything. Sometimes the worst is not only the financial and economic consequences, which is the least; they are also worthy. It would be right to do something in this area once and that the judicial branch of power no longer behaves so ignorantly and arrogantly. You, too, as a respected guardian, find that the longevity of judicial proceedings is a major problem of the judicial system. However, you also note that the data on the proportion of convictions of the European Court of Human Rights against Slovenia is of concern. Now for the second topic. You also wrote in the report, quote: “Final solutions also require shameful and man-made post-war killings, in particular with a decent burial of all the victims.” Of course, I agree with you here, 71 years ago, these victims and their relatives have been waiting for the burial of some eternal peace and peace. But here I am, perhaps naive, but I personally expected you to say something about the latest excavations of human skeletons in Košnica. I was alone at this crime scene, and I have to say I'm speechless. The silence of the state authorities was also more than said. On the Commission on Human Rights, I asked you, among other things, what is your opinion as the guardian of human rights that there, despite the fact that it is the sea, we need to know what is the sea and what is the grave and what is after the war that killed people – why there is no investigating judge. What do you think about the fact that there is no investigating judge, that there is no investigating prosecutor, and that there are only archaeologists, not forensics? I didn't get that answer. I also asked you whether it seemed fair to you as a guardian that no one was responsible for the crimes committed after the war; even though crimes against humanity did not get old by domestic or international law. And even if we know that the perpetrators, even under international and domestic law, can, because of such crimes against humanity, also process posthumously. I didn't get an answer to that question either. However, it must be said that if you bury the dead, that is, the victims of post-war violence, and you do not condemn the system and not condemn the criminals who committed the crime, then you continue to leave and allow for an open path for divisions that can never work in the direction of reconciliation; at the same time, the respected guardian and colleague and colleague, particularly in the coalition, agree with the system that has used these crimes. And if we are to achieve reconciliation, then we must ensure respect for human rights. This is our basic mission, reflected precisely through the elements of the so-called transitional justice that reconciliation experts are talking about; that is, the right to know. People have the right to know, people have the right to redress, people have the right to legality, which means that individuals have the right to know who committed these crimes; and by strengthening democracy and human rights, they have the right to ensure non-repetition. Let me say here that today in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we have tabled amendments to the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims. Throughout the time of the adoption of this law, prepared by Nova Slovenije with the support of the Modern Centre Party, we have warned that the law obscures essential things and does not respect the human dignity of the victims in the way that they and their relatives deserve. It doesn't make a difference between what's at the sea and what's at the cemetery. With this novel, we want to regulate the shortcomings that have been proven in practice in the implementation of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the burial of victims. It appears that there are no detection and prosecution authorities and an investigative judge present in the excavations or certification procedures of the seas, thus preventing such proceedings from being carried out in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings. The law exempts mass and systematic war crimes from the criminal law system and leaves them to the discretionary decision of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves and law enforcement. It is a gross denial of the rule of law and a violation of the principle that we are all equal before the law and that criminal law applies to all. The aim of the proposed law, which we have tabled in the legislative procedure today, is to lay the groundwork for the implementation of the maritime certification procedures in accordance with the law governing criminal proceedings, and the authorities for the detection and prosecution of crimes and the judiciary will be required to cooperate in the proceedings; it is a crime scene and for the victims who have been killed and must be treated in exactly the same way as the others who have been killed under the principles of criminal procedure. However, the criminal procedure must not impede the procedures of a decent burial, but at least the evidence enabling the continuation of criminal proceedings and the determination of liability must be protected. Dear colleagues, I would like to touch on two more of these. Other topics will also be opened by my fellow Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the Human Rights Commission's meeting, we proposed some additional recommendations on the protection of children's rights; this time, the coalition, the coalition's machine, voted against, which means that the recommendations were not adopted. These are recommendations related to the systemic situation which has been present all the time and has in practice been most reflected in 2016 and in the case of the Korean boys. Dear Madam Guardian, you have not detected any irregularities in the illegal seizure of the Korean boys. The Supreme Court also told the day before yesterday that the seizure of the Korean boys was illegal. Here you are, the public, respected Ombudsman, I ask, will you now, after all the decisions of the Supreme Court, publicly request the resignation of Minister Anja Kopač Dark? At the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to another topic that you have also discussed, a topic that is increasingly present in Slovenia, even though Europe has been drawing attention to it for a long time. We also see this through the applications we receive to the petition committee. I am talking about mobbing or suffering in the workplace, which, under Article 197 of the Penal Code, is a criminal offence and is at risk of being punished for up to two years. Here I would like to point out that it is right for all of us to become more sensitive together to the problem of bullying and intimidation that is taking place in jobs and to draw attention to it. The Penal Code clearly defines what mobile work is like. Article 6 of the Labour Relations Act also prohibits harassment, torture in the workplace. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia specifies that everyone has the right to personal dignity and security, which means that state authorities and all individuals must respect the right to that personal dignity and security. I would also like to point out that the consequences of the health-related mobile phone in the long term are well-aware of the European Union, which warns that one third of all working days are lost due to the disease and absence caused by the mobile phone. The costs incurred by this mannequin go to thousands of billions of euros. This is a sufficiently eloquent information that shows that we need to do more in this area and take this as a serious phenomenon within the working environment. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected guardian, we will support your recommendations, support and support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u10	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, Honourable Guardian with the Team and Honourable Representatives of the Government! On the parliamentary benches we have the 21st regular annual report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. This time, too, the Ombudsman is thoroughly reporting on the current operation from which the most pressing problems or human rights violations can be identified. The Ombudsman's report includes 83 recommendations, but unfortunately many are repeated from year to year and remain unfulfilled. However, as the Ombudsman pointed out on the committee responsible, cooperation with the Government is good, which is essential for achieving the desired objectives, which the Ombudsman points out. Among other things, the Ombudsman has highlighted and called upon all public function and policy holders to refrain from all statements of discriminatory hate speech, from humiliating, intimidating or otherwise damaging minorities, groups or individuals. At the time of the refugee crisis and at the time of the adoption of legislation, which at least partially governs the situation of same-sex partners, many impatient words were heard in the public and also in the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament must be a model for society as a whole. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is in our statements that all Members and Members of the public debates can avoid promoting hatred or intolerance on the basis of any personal circumstances; we must act with patience and respect. The fact is that the public expects all of us to do our best, especially ethically, during our term of office. Thus, ethical standards represent a common denominator for all Members, regardless of the size of the Group of Members, their political or party programme or other interests. In the Desus Group, we are saddened by the fact that as many as 300,000 people live below the poverty line, 14.5% of the population. Among them is a total of 26% of pensioners. It is frightening to see that as many as 175 thousand old pensioners receive pensions below 600 euros, while the poverty threshold is 593 euros for a single-member household. In the Desus Group, we will again and again draw attention to a decent pension based on the 40-year pension period. We are pleased that in the legislative process there is a new law on domestic violence, and this is precisely at this meeting, which also touches on improving the protection of the elderly. According to the police, violence against the elderly is on the rise; however, protocols to deal with how to reach older people who are victims of one or more forms of violence are not produced. This is an extremely pressing issue, and the country will have to find appropriate measures to address this problem. I would like to draw attention in particular to the economic violence against the elderly, where, in addition to the mentality of the relatives to the older generation, there is also a major problem in the economic distress of the relatives themselves. The latter can indirectly be linked to the economic situation of the country and to the issue of active employment policy and the functioning of the social state. In practice, there are different treatments of the elderly when we talk about homes for the elderly who are owned by the State; or private-owned homes. Making a profit should by no means be a mission of private homes. The elderly are unjustifiably suppressed from social events, and we should all do our utmost to meet the specific needs and rights of the elderly. Too often it is forgotten that human rights are also a right to live the fall of our lives. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to see that since its official start in 1995, the Ombudsman's Institute has become strongly entrenched in the awareness of citizens and citizens, or of society as a whole, and enjoys a great reputation in the public. However, we want the 2016 report to be significantly shorter, which would mean that the human rights issue is only improving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wilphan. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Guardian, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! “People learn to hate and if they can learn to hate, they can learn to love.” An excerpt from Nelson Mandela’s mind, quoted by the guardian as an introduction to the 21st regular annual report, at the same time with hope and responsibility. With the hope that it may be different, better and responsible that we, as elected representatives of the people, are obliged to provide appropriate conditions for this. But hope and responsibility are lacking in the political community as well as in society. This conclusion is brought back to the vast report of the institution, which people place among the most trusted in the country. The text before us does not adorn the cruelty of everyday life, through which our people fight poverty, violence, and other personal hardships. That is why every time a ruling policy tries to embellish it with a normative decoration, and the opposition unrelentingly, often unwarranted criticism, uses it for a classic parliamentary fight. In the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, none of the roads taken are true and does not achieve the aims of the drafters. We therefore understand the report in the first place as a compass, as an incentive in the effort to create better living conditions for everyone who lives or is only temporarily living in that country. The Ombudsman's report presents a number of examples that could be defined as individual excesses; however, unfortunately, because of the frequent occurrence of the system's crisis earlier. Among them is the health sector, which, despite the exceptional sacrifice of health personnel, falls into the spiral of systemic anomalies. The first among them is the perception of health services as classic market goods which are accessible only to the chosen ones. In particular, it is a matter of concern that such a way of understanding is extended from private to public space. Unequal and unfair access to health care is unacceptable for the social state. The pending species and their associated Skipping, even the abuse of the situation, the collection of closures for operations abroad, which should be financed from health insurance funds, the collection of funds from humanitarian organisations for investments in health care, the restriction on access to dental care and could also be listed, have passed from the exceptions to the rule set out in Article 2 of our Constitution. We hope that the Minister's announcements on the interpretation of her work will become meat and that she will have the power to oppose the lobbies that have been breaking in this area for many years. In this fight, he has our full support. We also point to the work that becomes more than value an instrument by which individuals nominate their wealth, while at the same time they poorer the employees and kick them to the brink or through it, to poverty. Discovered stories of workers from single homes and from the Los Valley are the tip of an icy mountain. Its main part is represented by all those who receive minimum wages for their work, which are on business contracts, those hired from less developed countries of the European Union. So all those in the so-called flexible working relationship. We agree with the Ombudsman, who says that if measures to protect workers' rights do not work, they should be replaced as soon as possible with new ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for such measures! It is also time for action for the welfare of the elderly. The Ombudsman warns of their plight in cases of various forms of violence against them. In addition, they are often the only ones with regular incomes to help support their children’s families. They are dealing with their uncertain future, with supply issues when they cannot take care of themselves anymore. We expect the government to bring an answer, which is difficult to expect, to the family members of the long-term ill, on the parliamentary bench in the form of a long-term care law. On various occasions, we draw attention to the most vulnerable part of this society – these are children, many of them with special needs. Can we listen to their expectations?Oh, my God! This year's bearer theme The week's child was the world I want to live in. I wonder, what kind of world do we create with our decisions in the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Let us recall the debate on the part of the political public, which provided for the prohibition of corporal punishment to banalise to extremes and even advocate the raising of arms over children as some kind of educational measure. Do children want a world to be accompanied by slaps and punches? Do children want a world where a copy of political battles, battles of decaying or disintegrating parents will break on their shoulders? Do they want a world where their fellow citizens, members of the Roma community, live in unworthy conditions deprived of normal childhood, even for inclusion in the school system? In the face of the refugee problem, it is also necessary to ask whether our children want a world where their peers will be left to the mercy or ruthless confusion in their own interests of the buried politics of the so-called modern Western world, even of the civilized world. The challenges in protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms are many. Therefore, with the same interest as we have read the report, we have also read the government's response to it. We welcome the more serious approach taken by the executive authority to monitor the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations, which is a commitment to verify the implementation and publish it regularly online for six months. We also support the announced strengthening of the Ombudsman Institute in accordance with the Paris Principles on Promotion, Education and Research. We further welcome the establishment of a body of Advocates of the principle of equality which, in accordance with the powers set out in the Law on Protection against Discrimination, will carry out advisory, awareness and warning functions in this area. So the framework is good. What kind of a picture will take time in it, we'll see soon enough. For her, the sketch will draw to a good extent the supplementary draft budget for the next two years. Respected and respected, people have become tired of discussing systemic, strategic, and somewhat similar meaningful fluid expressions. The Ombudsman not only as a politician, but as a society fully encourages us to finally start doing what is right; and not what is in one’s own interest, for human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal, inseparable, or at least such. Just a brief look at two weeks ago when an ideological event group denied the guaranteed right to abortion with the Constitution, it shows that every day it is necessary to strive or fight to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. Dear Guardian, we thank you and your team in the Group of Social Democrats for their extensive presentation! We try to make it as often as possible and as often as possible in political everyday life, and we sincerely acknowledge that many times we have failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much, mag. Bojana Mursich. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! Hello, team of the Guardian of Human Rights; hello, Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer! The annual report of the Ombudsman is a document showing the state of the country. As such, it certainly deserves special attention; the implementation of its recommendations should be the priority of the Government and the National Assembly. But the real picture is unfortunately different. Today we will have a debate on this subject, and we will instruct the Government to implement the recommendations, but it will boast about how it is already working on this; and in one year we will find again that the situation has not changed significantly, sometimes even worse. We proposed six recommendations in the United Left a year ago when the report for 2014 was considered, which the Coalition rejected by arguing that their adoption was not necessary. We have proposed that the area of detection and sanctioning of hate speech and the promotion of hatred on social networks should be regulated. So far, nothing has changed in this area and the Ombudsman's recommendation is again in the report. We have therefore proposed the same recommendation this year, but the coalition has rejected it again. This is especially surprising because yesterday I heard quite a hostile speech, not as loud as it was years ago; but a quiet, cold, negative racism, which is no less dangerous. A year ago, we proposed to make access to courts easier for the socially weaker and to ensure equal treatment in the exercise of rights. We haven't seen any improvement here in one year either. We have noted that long-term procedures relating to international protection are unacceptable; a year later, the Minister proposes even a complete suspension of asylum procedures; a sick mother with a newborn is waiting for 14 months to resolve her application. We have also proposed recommendations relating to the provision of adequate financial resources and the human resources strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate and ensuring adequate supervision and sanctioning of unpaid salaries and social security contributions. I would like to add peacefully that the Ombudsman has already warned the government about this in 2005 and we are still where we are. Not only has the situation not improved in this area in the last year but it has even worsened. However, as recommended by the coalition last year, they were rejected without explanation this year. The same has happened to all the other recommendations that we have proposed, even though these are problems that are only getting worse year after year. And so we read in the report: “The leadership of the state and institutions in many areas is not good; especially not fast enough, effective enough and not always for the greatest benefit of the people, especially those on the social side, the poor, the powerless, the robbed of dignity and the very disappointed.” And this warning is reality. This is a real situation that is due to the failed and anti-social policies of this government and past governments. The unwillingness of the government and the coalition to seek any solutions that would help eradicate poverty and help improve the social picture clearly indicates that the Ombudsman's warning that the hungry is not to believe, healthy for the sick and rich, more than on the spot. Systematic disregard of the Government's recommendations is alarming in this light, which we find so unacceptable that we also proposed the adoption of ten recommendations this year. We wanted to explicitly commit the government to their realization, especially those who have been repeating themselves for a long time, not even to report them anymore, but to demand them. But this time, too, the coalition rejected everything from the first to the last. One year from now, we will stand here again and find that the Ombudsman's reports remain unrealised, that the social picture is deteriorating, that the rate of poverty is still worrying that more than 50,000 children are living below the poverty threshold. The government and the coalition will once again nod that the problems are, they may have committed themselves to some analysis or promise a systemic solution; they have rejected all the new proposals of the opposition and for at least one year have forgotten about it. Believing that the general recommendation that institutions and officials respect the Ombudsman's recommendations, whatever they change, would be utopian. Until the government and the coalition realize that poverty and social exclusion are the main generator of problems, they will deepen annually. Slovenia, however, will be a rule of law and a social state only for the elite. As long as the carelessness of the powerless holds state institutions and policies, the Ombudsman's report will become obese. The obesity of the Ombudsman's report is a sign of the good work of this institution; unfortunately, even more of those who should worry that the thickness of this report should be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Hanzek. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u16	Honourable President, Ombudsman, colleague and colleague! In fact, the red thread of the Ombudsman's annual report has been a long-standing judicial procedure for several years, the backlog of complaints against first-degree decisions in virtually all areas, labour relations, scholarships, the exercise of rights from public funds, social security and unemployment, health injustices and many others. The 2015 report is also, we can say, the same. The Ombudsman notes with her colleagues the sad truth, which is only the Ministry of Labour and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do not see that poverty is increasing in our society and that social differences are further deepening. As the main problem in the area of social security, it refers to the poverty of a large part of the population. The consequences of poverty, which we are constantly alerting to in Novi Slovenije, are wide. The poor material condition affects the self - image of these people, their family relations, and, above all, it violates the right to dignity for these people. What is he listening to and what the competent Ministry of Labour and Government of the Republic of Slovenia is looking at, that nothing has moved in this area in the last year?Oh, my God! Since 2012, the Ombudsman has been referring to the ineffective resolution of complaints against first-degree decisions on public funds rights. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities should ensure that decisions are issued within legal time limits at the first and second stages of the decision-making process. The Ministry does not implement the recommendation, but the report does not feel that the situation in this area would improve. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has even replied to the Ombudsman's letter that the parties who complain about decisions concerning the child allowance, kindergarten subsidies and state scholarships may expect their complaint to be resolved within two years. Where's legal certainty here? What about during this period of two years? Another reason why the Minister should have said good-bye a long time ago. For this reason, Christian Democrats wonder whether the Ombudsman's institution is not merely reduced to a warning and the Government does not heed the Ombudsman's recommendations and warnings. The Keeper is the voice of the screaming in the desert. The Ombudsman and I agree that the rule of law is too often gravely violated; and this is unacceptable. We will continue to give a strong warning about these injustices. In the area of labour relations, the number of initiatives in 2015 has decreased compared to the year before, and is still larger than the number of initiatives in 2013. Most of the initiatives relate to non-payment of wages and social security contributions, company chaining, recruitment in criminal, precarious forms of work, torture, bullying, mobbing and other forms of violence in the workplace, inspection procedures, postings abroad, volunteer training and foreign migrant workers. In the section Discrimination, we find a comprehensive report on a number of initiatives, which are in depth examples of initiatives in the field of discrimination between different social groups. Nevertheless, Christian Democrats estimate that the picture is missing an important part of the people of our country — Christians, faithful people. At its winter session on 29 January 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution requiring more religious freedom and respect for religious pluralism in the Member States. Europe, which should be an international example of respect for religious freedom, is unfortunately becoming at odds with this idea of European integration. There are reports of violence, vandalism and other forms of hostility to Christians and churches on European soil. The Authority shall be responsible for a reasonable regulation of the situation which in practice respects freedom of religion. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also condemned the case of the Netherlands, which prohibited mothers from participating in the same-sex marriage for objecting to their conscience. It's an attack on a traditional Christian minority. Let us mention that the same is true in Slovenia. The Coalition rejects every New Slovenia proposal for the possibility of objecting to conscience in various areas. Discussioners at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also called for respect for the rights of parents that children must be educated in accordance with the religious and philosophical beliefs of parents, so that Christians can fully participate in public life and without conditions and against stereotyping Christians by the media. It is the belief of the Council of Europe that the State must condemn and punish any form of hate speech or violent act that constitutes an attack on any of the religions. Such an attack also means discriminatory legislation. Discrimination as such not only affects members of minorities but also members of the majority religious community. The media generally do not detect and report on these phenomena. The sentences are also very cheap for the competent state institutions. Unfortunately, there is nothing written about this in the Ombudsman's report, but it is also very topical and pressing matters in the Republic of Slovenia. In the field of healthcare, the Ombudsman notes that the work of the Health Insurance Institute in deciding on rights had to be improved. It also notes that the situation in the area of the adoption of emergency health legislation has not changed in relation to the previous year. The Ombudsman states that the Ministry is constantly promising the necessary legal changes, but they are still not at public hearing at the time of writing, as of course now. Just as we warned in Novi Slovenija about interpolation, the Ombudsman also observes the extension of waiting periods, individual irregularities in the organization of work, supposed professional errors and the unwillingness of the responsible for rapid and effective response, which reduces confidence in health. In New Slovenia, however, we express our concern and we cannot agree in any way with the title of the sub-chapter, which is Euthanasia as a human right. It is worrying that the Ombudsman suggests that euthanasia is human rights, while fundamental human rights are the right to life. We also do not see any need, as the guardian predicts, to give advice on this sensitive subject. However, it would be very welcome to have a consultation on the subject of long-term care and care for dying, palliative care, which is very urgent in view of the ageing population of our country. Long-term procedures for putting interventions into space, water land and water permits remain on the Ombudsman's agenda; even in the past year. Last year, the number of initiatives under consideration was much higher than in previous years, reflecting growing problems in this area and the lack of action by the country. The Ombudsman continues to point out the problem of the longevity of judicial proceedings and the quality of the trial. The Ombudsman shall encourage the adoption of a long-term strategy for the judiciary. The Ombudsman notes that the existing options under the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay – supervisory appeal and a deadline proposal are not sufficient means to reach a trial within a reasonable period of time. In this regard, it proposes additional resources for these purposes. With regard to the quality of the trial, the Ombudsman points out the strengthening of the effectiveness of the control mechanisms, the improvement of transparency and the public functioning of the judiciary. The Ombudsman also notes that the right to a fair, impartial trial is not always respected. Recommendations for judges to comply consistently with the provisions of the PPP and to be excluded from the trial themselves. In addition to impartiality, the appearance of impartiality is also important; enforcement procedures are still essential for too long. The Ombudsman also addressed the problem of migrant workers to a large extent. In Novi Slovenija we are disappointed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet taken this issue seriously; let alone find a solution. The Christian Democrats, however, have already proposed twice a solution to the National Assembly – a change to the Income Law. Our solution calls for a single general relief of €7,000. Unfortunately, our proposal to resolve this issue has always been rejected by the coalition. Christian Democrats were also pleased with the Ombudsman's response in the event of an increase in the registration of lawyers, which significantly made it difficult for younger lawyers to enter the legal profession. Such an increase in the entry has seriously affected the human right to freedom of work and also the constitutional right to free economic initiative. In New Slovenia, we are pleased to have managed to prevent such unacceptable restrictions on the development and advancement of young people, together with our young man. At the same time, let us note that attention will also have to be maintained in the future in the area of limiting the right to freedom of work and the free economic initiative. In doing so, we expect the Ombudsman to play his role, particularly in pointing out possible irregularities. Members of New Slovenia support the report of the Ombudsman for 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Allow me first to thank the Ombudsman and her team for the comprehensive report and their work so far, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The report shows that Slovenia has taken a step forward in certain areas. Although we cannot say that nothing changes for the better, there are still too many such matters that the guardian warns about year after year. Despite the Ombudsman’s annual warnings and recommendations, the necessary changes do not occur; however, this is promised each year by the competent authorities at the hearing of the report. The report under consideration, as the deputy guardian put it well when considering the report on the parent’s working body, is obese year after year, despite firm decisions to reduce it. The problem is changing very little, just complementing it; the problems that the guardian warns about year after year are increasing. Thus, the annual reports repeat warnings related to the understanding and realization of the rule of law and the social state, the judicial backlog, the failure to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court; in particular, the lack of a vision and a strategy for the protection of human rights. As a society and also as the highest legislative body, you should not allow a situation where the problems identified and confirmed are not resolved at the legal and systemic level; even though the competent ministries commit themselves to this. In order to fail to implement the Ombudsman's recommendations, no one has been called to account; however, the erosion of the rule of law appears to be only at the time of the annual consideration of the report. The state of alarm at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities; things don't move from year to year. And problems in the field of disability, there are two decisions of the Constitutional Court with the discrimination of disabled people who are still waiting for enforcement. Nor does the area of health care show any mention of valuable progress. At the hearing of the report, however, respected colleagues and colleagues, there is no way that we can go beyond some of the individual issues that the Ombudsman has also given them special attention to; they include the human rights of the Roma; and the Ombudsman points out that there are still no solutions in this area. Let me stress that in the Alliance, we have repeatedly pointed out the need to address the Roma problem in the last two years. In this regard, I am primarily referring to the regulation of basic infrastructure, which certainly includes access to drinking water and access to electricity. I would also like to recall the amendment tabled by the Alliance, which we tabled at the time of the 2015 Budget Balance, with the amendment, we wanted to provide some resources to ensure basic conditions for a decent life for a person. Above all, we would like to remind ourselves of the Law on the Roma Community introduced in spring 2015, which has been coordinated and coordinated since the previous government, which has run out of time to adopt as a result of the change of government. Before last year, even as the Alliance's Group, we introduced a law that, as mentioned above, was more prepared in the time of the previous government, we further coordinated it and coordinated it with those of the Ombudsman and put it into the consideration of the National Assembly last spring. Unfortunately, the government has given this law a negative opinion by promising to prepare its own law. And look, it's been a half-second year, but there is no spirit or hearing about this law. The Ombudsman warns again, the report warns that there is still no law. And that really saddens us. Not because our marriage was not adopted, but because no one seems to move at the proper office. The fundamental human right, which is certainly the right to drinking water, is being continuously violated, even though it is our call by the National Assembly that our highest legal act will enter into the Constitution, our highest legal act, the right to drinking water. The practice in our country, which has apparently been more than caught up in the fact that things and problems are shifting from year to year, is the reason why the report we are considering is only obese. Problems are not solved, but in the end we are faced with a situation where someone else decides instead of us what we should have settled for ourselves long ago. Such a decision is most expensive from a financial point of view, especially from a moral point of view where we are all losing together as a society. And again today, we are just before the European Court of Human Rights is sentenced to a loss of access to drinking water. As a matter of fact, it's been a few months since our marriage was introduced. Nothing has changed in the legislative field since then, which is unacceptable. Nevertheless, the Government has incorporated the Law on the Roma Community into the normative work programme. Despite my promise that the government novel will soon see the light of the world, it is still not before us. Some representatives of the Roma community live day after day without drinking water and electricity. Therefore, on this occasion, when we consider the report of the Ombudsman, I appeal to the Government to take a step forward in the field of living and human rights violations of the Roma community. I sincerely hope that if you don't hear the opposition's warnings, you will hear at least the guardian's recommendations. Heard and even heeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I should like to point out that, in view of the integrity of the operation of the Ombudsman and his report for 2015, we can talk about the quality of the upgrading of activities. In support of this claim, I should mention only the social field from the thematic areas covered by the report. In this area, we record a steady increase in the number of cases where citizens are turning to the Ombudsman for violation or neglect of social rights. In doing so, it is commendable that the Ombudsman responds appropriately to such abuses in order to warn and propose measures in this regard. At the same time, we can be very concerned about the overall material and social situation of the population. Poverty has become a real problem for our society, especially in certain regions. We are also seeing a positive trend with regard to the continued warning of the Ombudsman about judicial backlogs and inconsistencies, as well as in the area of systemic problems of the health system, which is often conditioned by human rights violations. In this area, too, we record the pro-active role of the Ombudsman. And I apologize for not particularly saluting the guardians and her co-workers. I will continue to focus mainly on the problem related to indigenous national communities. In the past year, we had quite a few substantive discussions with the Ombudsman and her coworkers about the problems of national communities or the potential violations of their rights. We consider these discussions to be important and urgent, but, as we have also noted at the meeting of the Commission for National Communities, it would be necessary for the Ombudsman or her competent deputy and professional services to meet regularly with representatives of the organisations of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, where specific cases of this specific area could be analysed in detail. I want this to be understood as a well-intentioned call to organise such meetings. From the Ombudsman’s 28th annual report for 2015, we can again understand that members of indigenous national communities have reported a slight violation of their rights, but this is only a statistical data that can be very misleading without explanation. Let me stress that the above statement in the report does not in any way mean that there are no problems in this area, as the Ombudsman is also aware, as she confirmed at that meeting of the Commission for National Communities. In the national communities, we estimate that our members have not been informed of any violations of their rights. They did not do so either because they lacked knowledge of the Ombudsman’s authority or because they were afraid to reveal such problems because of past negative experiences or because they had not heard of them. It is not particularly necessary to explain that this area is particularly sensitive because of its historical events in our area. In the framework of the organisations and institutions of the national communities and at meetings in the national mixed area, there are ongoing discussions on problems relating to the exercise and violation of the rights of members of the national community based on specific infringements. In recent times, cases of infringement of the right of a member or member of the national community in the occupation of a job where the legal knowledge of the indigenous language of the national community is also determined, as well as inconsistencies in the use of his or her mother tongue in the course of operations with national or local authorities, have been the most outstanding. By the way, there is still no consistent provision of bilingual forms in institutions where this is clearly prescribed by law. Thus, at the beginning of the procedure, the party is prevented from proceeding further in the language of the national communities. Unfortunately, individual cases of national intolerance have also been present in the past year. Because of their nationality, members of the national community still received insults, slanders, and hateful statements. Many of these abuses occur in connection with the general social distress of citizens, and this often overlooks the basic problem — national or possibly religious or similar intolerance. We welcome the activities or verifications on the ground carried out by the employees of the Ombudsman at the beginning of this year, i.e. in 2016, unannounced on certain administrative units in the national mixed areas in Prekmurje and in the area where the Italian national community lives. As regards the provision of conditions for the bilingual operation of state and municipal authorities and institutions, certain irregularities have been identified, to which they have also been alerted. We propose that the Ombudsman continue with such activities, as it will only be possible to monitor the improvement or deterioration of the situation. Following the consideration of the Ombudsman's report 2015, the Commission adopted a decision proposing once again to the Ombudsman to proactively play the role of protecting their rights, including awareness of the role and importance of this institution, in cooperation with indigenous national communities. Let me conclude by assessing in our Group the Ombudsman's report for work 2015 as appropriate, rich and supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Erika Dekleva will present her position on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u22	Respected Ombudsman, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! Today, the National Assembly is considering the second annual report of the Ombudsman in this mandate, or twenty-one in a row. At the outset, I would like to point out that the present report is essentially the first report to touch fully on the functioning of the government led by the President of the Government of the Modern Centre Party. Let me remind you that the government of Dr. Mira Cerar took an oath only on 17 September 2014. Therefore, it is only in this report that the Ombudsman actually expresses the attitude or respect for the human rights and freedoms of this government and this coalition; at the same time, it is also an indicator of the state and society as a result of its functioning within the scope of its powers. In this regard, it should be noted that the judiciary is independent in the exercise of judicial authority in accordance with the principle of division of power. In order to better understand why I have highlighted the above-mentioned facts, let me first wipe out the tasks and powers of the Ombudsman as an independent and independent State authority. It is a constitutional category, since Article 159 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to public authorities, local authorities and public authorities to be established by law by the Ombudsman. The Law on the Ombudsman provides that the Ombudsman shall be independent and independent in his work and shall comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international human rights and fundamental freedoms legal acts. The Ombudsman, therefore, is not part of the mechanism of authority, but is the supervisor of all branches of authority. It limits the will of the authorities and controls their functioning. Therefore, the Ombudsman's reports also present a kind of call to all three branches of government, as well as to all state bodies, public servants and public officials, including us in the National Assembly, to respect and ensure the realization of human rights and freedoms. The recommendations also have an impact on the establishment of a political agenda for the Government and the National Assembly or both branches of government. Despite the scope of this year’s report, it has over 400 pages — on this occasion I would also like to thank the Ombudsman for his conscientious and well - done work — it could be concluded that the latter point to a systemic and individual violation of human rights and that the Government, individual ministries and the National Assembly do not respond or respond appropriately and do not act. I hope that's not the case. It is true that some of the Ombudsman's findings are repeated in several annual reports, but it is also true that there is considerable progress in many areas. In 2013, the report contained 150 recommendations; in 2014 – 114, this time, the Ombudsman's report makes 83 recommendations, which is 31 less than the 2014 report. The number of recommendations almost halved compared to 2013. This shows that the situation has improved significantly. In its report, too, the Government is fully responding to the Ombudsman’s recommendations on more than 200 pages. This is why it applies to the perception of the situation of human rights and freedoms, as well as the actions of state authorities, to note that everything is not as bad and far off from being as problematic as it is gladly stressed. The latter shall also be based on the facts contained in the Ombudsman’s report. The report also mentions the decisions of the executive branch of authority that provide higher standards for the protection of human rights. It is also important to mention the legislative acts that have already been adopted in this mandate of the National Assembly or are still in the process of being examined and will ensure the protection of the human rights of individuals and certain groups. The Ombudsman's report, as well as the Government, is able to understand that the Ombudsman's cooperation with ministries and other state authorities is generally good and correct; however, there are problems regarding the speed and response of individual authorities or ministries. However, despite the recent findings, it is worth noting that the Government is not avoiding the examination and that, as a rule, action is being taken to remedy the infringements or problems identified. In most cases, the Ombudsman has warned that individual recommendations, even if they are not fully implemented, are being addressed by the ministries. Different government departments may have different views in the preparation of individual regulations. In view of the Government's well-founded response report, we hope that there will be much more of such observations on progress in specific areas and that progress will become a constant in all areas. The Government has made every effort to comply with the Ombudsman’s recommendations. Let me also point out that this government has set up a special interdepartmental group in charge of ensuring that the judgments of international courts, in particular the European Court of Human Rights, are properly implemented and implemented in a timely manner. However, within the Ministry of Justice, there is a special permanent project group in the establishment which will be responsible for monitoring and professional assistance in the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice and other courts, as well as recommendations made by the Ombudsman. In my mind, no government has ever done that before. In addition, I would like to point out that we are weak in terms of systematic monitoring and response to systemic human rights violations and that we do not have an institution based on the Paris principles that would work in this area. The Ombudsman agrees with such observations and points out that the need to establish a state institution for human rights has been a reality since virtually every beginning of action. This is described in the annual reports and suggests recommendations that have been followed up by governments and the National Assembly so far, and there have never been concrete action towards implementation. This government is the first to adopt a decision and has commissioned the Ministry of Justice to prepare a draft amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman, which will also provide conditions for status A in accordance with the Paris principles. This status also allows for the direct cooperation of the State institution within the framework of the universal, periodic view mechanisms of the countries, which is the most important UN mechanism in the area of monitoring the situation and respect for the human rights of individual Member States. As a country with a status B institution, we are now in a society of countries that are not exactly exemplary in respect for the level of respect for human rights. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that this coalition and government are committed to respect for human rights, freedoms and fundamental human dignity, sensitive to the rights of vulnerable social groups and committed to the responsibility of the State authorities. Nevertheless, we are aware that the path towards the goal or elimination of violations of human rights and freedoms is still a long one, as there are still a number of areas in which the Ombudsman points out and where changes are urgently needed. Let us mention Roma issues, problems in justice and long-term procedures, the area of labour relations, the functioning of social work centres and some others. We therefore supported the Ombudsman's report in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre, together with a proposal for recommendations by which we will commit the Government and also the National Assembly to action, support the working body and support them today at the meeting of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Girl. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the report and the proposal for recommendations. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Lady Guardian and her coworkers! Nice greetings also to colleagues in the National Assembly and all the representatives of the ministries present! I believe that the area of human rights is one of the fundamental areas to be devoted to. Everything we do is most often overcome by the issue of respect for human rights. I think that everything begins and ends with this issue, and I am also constantly stressing that this is a topic of the highest value for me, which must be addressed as well. The colleague already mentioned in her delegation's position that there is a problem of systematic monitoring of the situation in the field of human rights enforcement in the Republic of Slovenia. I can no longer agree here that the State Institute, in accordance with Parisian principles, would have one task, as the Ombudsman does, but would have an even broader task; it is very important that it carry out the general task of determining the situation, promotion, awareness, education. I think this is something that we need to get in Slovenia. I really know, and it has also been said that some efforts within the Ministry of Justice have already been made here and that some progress has been made. In this place I also call on the government to accelerate all efforts in this area, because we simply need to get this state institution. I myself was among the first to point out this; but the problem is that we have not even had a ministry in Slovenia that would be responsible for this area. This is unacceptable to me because I've dealt with human rights, and I've also been a doctor in this area before I was a judge. It is unacceptable that human rights are so less important to us. I hope that this trend, which is now reflected in the fact that the Ministry of Justice has somehow obtained this competence, means that the trend is better for us to actually get this institution; because then, in all areas, this systemic weakness shows that we do not have this monitoring. We have it that I will not now do injustice to the Ombudsman, but the Ombudsman herself warns and has previously warned that we need such an institution to take care of the situation, more promotion, awareness-raising and education in this area. For education is what helps us to learn some of the things in this field, that citizens, the inhabitants of the country, are familiar with certain areas and that they accept different. That's just one aspect of it. It is important, however, that we have made important progress in the Republic of Slovenia in establishing institutions that oversee the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Slovenia, including through international instruments for the protection of human rights in the field of discrimination, the prohibition of discrimination. We have adopted the Law on Protection against Discrimination and now we have an independent Advocate of the principle of equality, which I think is a very important progress; for earlier this institution has been within the framework – it is now until we finally appoint an advocate in this National Assembly. Then this independent institution will actually start to work. This was also a request from the European Union, the European Commission, to do so. I think we are still not aware of the progress we have made here because we have made it. It is also right that in a particular area, if we have done so, we should point to this; and it will also show, I am sure, that in the very functioning of this institution, this is the case. What I stress once again is that I really call on the government, but I do not do it publicly from this position, but also when we talk to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice to do everything possible to ensure that the institution is formed on the basis of the Paris principles of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that these conditions could be met and that they could be transferred to this group of countries that have an institution A; and, therefore, have shown beyond that, that we really have the will to be included in this group of those Member States that meet the standards for the protection of human rights. Secondly, it has been mentioned – including with the protection of minority rights – that I have been working for quite some time – that there is an unresolved problem in regulating the status of the Roma community. Yes, I think so, and we also believe in the Group of Members that the law on the Roma community needs to be regulated. There were some initiatives concerning this proposed law; the first observation was that it was not in line with the Roma community. And then we don't really have anything to talk about if that's not the case. And we are also doing everything in this area to get things started here; and therefore, it is essential to adopt a new national programme of measures for Roma as well as to adopt an amended or completely new law on the Roma community, perhaps at some slightly different starting points and bases. We are here several times and the President of the Government has personally warned the Director of the Nationality Office to speed up activities here. We have received assurances that the law is being prepared for the final stage. I personally note that things are moving too slowly here, and I think that more needs to be done here to come to the adoption of this law. Since we are in the ruling party, I think that more will have to be done in this area in order to actually adopt this law and the national action programme. The government has addressed the Report on the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia and has also prepared an updated version of the Roma Education and Education Strategy; it has also taken an important step in providing drinking water for Roma; it has allocated additional funds to guarantee the rights of Roma in south-eastern Slovenia and thus has provided access to drinking water in the settlements of Gorica Vas, Dobrushka Vas No. 35 and Dobrushka you are number 41; there are some movements. We are still aware of these issues in our parliamentary group and are aware of them in the government; but I also take advantage of this opportunity when I publicly present my position at the meeting of the National Assembly to encourage the government and also the Office of Nationality to speed up activities in the preparation of the new Law on the Roma Community. I am very active in the field of children with special needs. We are doing everything here to ensure that at least early treatment of children with special needs – and thank you, Madam Guardian, that you support us – is done to ensure that this law on early treatment of children with special needs is also introduced into the procedure at the beginning of the following year. It also seems important to me that you, the Ombudsman, have stressed that the government will submit an interim report on how the recommendations of the Ombudsman are being complied with, as an interim evaluation is possible here, as you yourself have stressed. This seems important to me that we do not have all year to do the analysis, and then only after one year to figure out what is and what is not solved. On this semi-annual basis, matters can also be identified and resolved in shorter periods of time, and this has further ensured that we are serious about human rights, that we are serious about meeting these recommendations, which are very important, which are an independent assessment of the situation, where more needs to be done. And the recommendations are not dependent, and the Ombudsman's institution is also dedicated to this, from some of the current political interests of any party, to political options, whatever. I believe that we all agree that the implementation of the findings of these recommendations should be given special attention. And I am very pleased that the government has decided to take such a step towards preparing an interim report on the implementation of the recommendations. We often know that there is no such thing and that there is no such thing as a need for consultation. We may not have enough information at some point, or we may not even try to obtain it. If I may point out in the end, colleague Iva Dimic said that an expert advice on long-term care would be needed. On Monday, 24 October, we have a consultation in the State Council on long-term care organised by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Many times the situation is such that we may at times be underinformed about certain matters; and perhaps some of our views and then our actions come from the fact that we may at times not know the situation well enough. Here I see as a very important institution of the Ombudsman to help inform, raise public awareness of what remains to be done in the field of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore express my full support for this report, thank the Ombudsman and her co-workers for their report, and I am also under an obligation to comply as much as possible with the Ombudsman's recommendations in the 2015 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u25	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert and the Magi. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u26	Excuse me, President! Thank you for your patience. With regard to the debate on the Ombudsman's report, I would like to focus mainly on the phenomenon of poverty, which I believe is also one of the key issues in this report, as well as practically in all the reports that we have addressed so far in the National Assembly. However, we can see from all these reports that the measures we take in the National Assembly or at the decision-makers level or the executive branch of the Authority or the legislative branch of the Authority do not follow these warnings. Unfortunately, I must conclude that some measures are of such a nature, which also in the long term do not show the possibility of improving the situation. Much of this has to do with what else is going on in the world. As a rule, the financial and economic crisis arises so that a small number of people at that time will be enriched at the expense of the vast majority of others. And this also happened to us in Slovenia at the time of the last economic and financial crisis, so we are also receiving developments in the world in Slovenia. Of course, it is also up to us to a great extent, or how we respond to whether we will accelerate this process to poverty, or how we will mitigate this process through our actions. The fact is that when a financial and economic crisis arises, bankers react in a hypnotic way and want to collect all the money they have lent to people or businesses at the time. And this is the crucial moment that causes poverty. Either they lose their jobs because the company is unable to repay their loans, or people lose their assets, for example, they have saved or leased their loans; and they lose everything in the first place. And the whole process, when you follow it in the world and even in Slovenia, is going this way to collect assets for people and countries when the crisis arises. And what is happening in Slovenia? This particular process is taking place in Slovenia, we have intensively organised forms of sales by setting up a Slovenian state holding company, including bad banks; and all of this we have raised even to a constitutional level by adopting a fiscal rule. The fiscal rule is one of those that makes it impossible for us to get out of this crisis faster and to make it possible to carry out measures that would provide more jobs and also provide better income to people, either those they receive through their work, wages, or those they receive through social contributions and protective allowances. And one of the concrete measures taken in Slovenia to mitigate this economic crisis, which took property, was also the law on protective supplements. This was a concrete example of what happened in Slovenia due to the economic and financial crisis, i.e. the confiscation of human property. And once they have no assets and the state has no assets, then we are poor and really dependent on how some global banking system decides how much poverty or dignity of life will allow us. This is a key problem that we face and many times forget when we try to deal with and solve a number of individual cases that the Ombudsman is dealing with. It comes with many phone and phone calls, we see from these reports, of course congratulations; they respond practically to everything and try to help everyone. These guidelines are then those that should be accepted to the fullest extent right here, where we decide on important solutions. And I don't think so; we can also look at statistics within the European Union, where the consequences of the economic and financial crisis are being resolved very slowly, especially within the euro area. According to Eurostat statistics, it can be found that almost 1 out of every 4 persons is exposed to poverty or is forced to the social edge or the edge of social exclusion. It is worrying that according to this data, Eurostat is more than 30% young between the ages of 18 and 24 and 27.8% of children who share their lives with poverty. That's the information we need to worry about. I think that, as a member of the European Union, we should also work in this direction to point out, within this system, the problems in which there are young people, as well as many generations, who are trying to secure decent pay or survival in their work. But this Eurostat data also shows that 66% of those who are working hard and working hard are poorer from day to day. And let me also have a rough comparison here when we talk about human rights, it is possible that we are aware of that. When we talk about 66% of those who are employed, work hard and are more poor from day to day, this leads us to compare with the labor camps in the former Nazi Germany, where people also worked without decent pay, without decent conditions, and were poor even at the end of World War II. This is the warning that I would also like to point out through this debate in particular that we must be aware that we are an integral part of this process. And if we don't stop him, over the years, we'll have more and more problems. The fact that this data does not apply only to Europe and that it also applies to Slovenia is also evident from these data we have in Slovenia on this issue. Slovenia is one of the European countries where the social situation of children has deteriorated the most. In 2008, we had a very good position of young, older, working population, i.e. employees; but according to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, we show that we are one of the countries where the social situation of children has deteriorated most since this financial and economic crisis. Slovenia, which has always been considered a country with a rather exemplary family policy, is increasingly moving away from what was exemplary; and approaching the countries where the problem is. Slovenia was second among European countries in 2008, fourth in 2012 and sixth in 2013 and remains above the European average. These are the measures, those decisions that we are taking on this economic and financial crisis, so that we do not have a discussion on why we need to maintain the 13 billion euro assets that Slovenia still has; why we need to preserve our natural monopolies that we have in Koper Luka, energy. Drava power plants produce the cheapest energy and try to sell it. These are just a few cases that I would like to point out that it is right for us to sober up while we have something else. All these processes, which we are actually trying to accelerate ourselves by adopting inadequate laws, are going in this direction so that we can become significantly more poor over the years than we should have. For if we are to reduce investment in knowledge, science – see, we have a law on higher education and education in the procedure – where solutions are going in a direction that is no longer monitored to the extent of the quality of the implementation of higher education programmes that we have had so far. As a result, there will be no progress without knowledge. These are all current topics that we are currently dealing with. I think that the Ombudsman's report really needs to be seen primarily in the light of how these warnings can be translated into the legislation and solutions we get to the National Assembly. I warn you, this is not always the case; and it has not been so many times in the last period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u27	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Get ready, mags. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A respected guardian with her coworkers! Of course, I also welcome representatives of the government. However, I would like to see representatives of the government from almost all areas here today. Why? If we look at this comprehensive report, and even if we release those hundred letters that speak of the so-called duties, responsibilities and legal bases that the Ombudsman has in this regard, there are many problems. And these problems touch almost every ministry. In this way, this will only be an additional incentive to tackle problems more specifically. Let me go slowly from one subject to another. It seems very important to me that today, although I have said this even in the last report of the Ombudsman last year, we should not talk about human rights violations only when we have a report from the Ombudsman on the table; but it must be resolved in a very constructive manner, so that we do not run into human rights violations by someone else, and in particular accelerated. When I listened to individual discussions, and really listened to them carefully, I can't get past some facts. Of course, everyone likes a medal to take a step forward. I believe that this was what the Modern Centre Party wanted to achieve in its debate as a leading party. But to say that the number of recommendations is essential to what is known in one year of the work of a government, I do not think we can discuss in this way. It is the depth and gravity of individual human rights violations. There could only be one report, and this problem would be worse than any other, but let's just leave it. We are also somewhat double-minded when we talk today about the continuing problems in the health sector, which the Ombudsman has pointed out in her report. They're staying; but for the sake of that, we all had those seconds a few days ago to change things when we talked about the interpretation and responsibility of the one who's running this facility right now. And that's not what you decided. We're talking about children's rights to be violated more and more. I agree with this information. We also talked about this and warned about it in this national assembly, and even then the seconds - long button was too heavy for some. And the state that is happening at this time, during this period, to take children away from someone, is a very serious and grave violation of human rights for me. It seems to me that sometimes we want to make an impression either on the public or on the Ombudsman; however, we are least effective when we can change things with our own buttons and discussions. Allow me to touch the so-called postwar graves myself. Last time it was nice to hear the question of the Modern Center Party to the Prime Minister how these things are being handled. But they are saved only by regulating the cemeteries, making sure that these people are not without their graves, and that the family can still light the light in peace and worship their relatives. But have we done everything to sanction such a serious crime against humanity?Oh, my God! The other part of the responsibility is missing from the question of funerals. And this is where action is needed, and that is why we have also introduced a specific law in the Slovenian Democratic Party today, where we propose that the post-war graves law be upgraded at work, that when it comes to the so-called discovery of graves, there should also be a judge and a prosecutor present. I'm talking about the investigating judge and the prosecutor, that's important. It's not enough to just do one part and then leave the other and say we saved things. We didn't save them. If I go further, in our society, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have often also pointed out the serious violations of human rights caused by the so-called Ubba, later only more than formally transformed into the State Security Service. It has been repeatedly said that this is an ideological question, we do not have lists, on the surface; someone who does not fit you puts it in some pile of coworkers, human rights violators. However, today it is different, today the lists are public and are in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we know who they were. Today we know who violated human rights; on the other hand, we have people who are victims of these violations. You know what is the saddest thing about this is that today, in the executive or in all branches of government and in the public sector, the government can be happy with these people. Maybe they're even deciding again about his rights. What kind of company are we?Oh, my God! I sometimes say it's political perversion. Talking about human rights, allowing even a court to meet when seeking a new right, with a person who is specifically known, is not a flat-rate claim that he has violated human rights and will today again share his rights. These are the problems that remain. These will never be able to be trampled, covered, put under carpets. That'll keep this company warm. She'll be warm all the time until we put these things in place. Now let me focus a little bit more on the area that I know more because I meet him on the ground as an elected Member in an environment where the problem of Roma issues is really very big. Before that, my colleague Jasna Murgel said well that sometimes we need to look back a little bit and get to know things better. There was also an indication of how the debate will take place in the State Council. He's right. We need to learn very well about things, so it's a shame that she's not in the hall because she mentioned Dobrush village. I would ask her how many times she was there, but I would honestly ask her how many times she was there. Now let me tell you what I think about this subject. The Ombudsman in the report – she will be able to fix me – warns that this topic is being resolved too slowly; otherwise, we can see it from the data. Let me remind you of the debate about the same time a year ago, when – today is not our colleague – Mrs Liljana Kozlovich, today the Secretary-General of the Government mentioned that a new strategy is being prepared for 2016 and beyond. That's what she said last year. Here before me is the answer of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to several questions related to Roma issues. My personal opinion is and I think it is not only my opinion that, if we want to solve the Roma problem, it is not enough to change only the existing law; it is important that we even know what information we are operating on. Do we even know what the situation is in this area?Oh, my God! The government's response was that the strategy was being prepared. One year ago it was preparing, in 2016 it is preparing again; but I warn you, it is a period since 2016, so we are practically late for a year. That's not the point. Allow me to raise some specific problems, although I believe that the guardian has more information than I do, but she may be interested in some of this. I asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how many virtual settlements, which are in some way illegal, are not regulated by building permits, not everything else is regulated, which ordinary citizens must do if they want to build a house today. That's what those who are professional about it and those who have ever built anything know. The government has told me that they do not have such information; so we are practically unable to talk about these settlements anymore. How will we solve the problem if we do not have clear data? I also asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how it is with the permanent employment of the Roma population. This is important because we all agree that their inclusion in society is crucial here. And in this way, they could be the most involved if they were to care for their family and would be able to care for them. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not have these data, respected. He doesn't have it. It's not supposed to be a legal basis. Then why do they know how many employees are temporarily employed? And we will solve the problems of the Roma and the non-Roma population in the area where it is?Oh, my God! Dearly respected, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia asked how many Roma children finish primary school and how many attend primary school these nine years which are compulsory and in which grade they usually finish. To understand better, it is not mandatory to complete the whole process of schooling; but after so many years, you can end up in the fifth, sixth, and so forth. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have this information. It does not even have the number of Roma children involved, because this data should not be collected because it is a special group. How are we going to define it if we don't have the data?Oh, my God! And if today those responsible asked how many Roma people we have in Slovenia, believe me, we have different data; we do not have this data. And now I ask you how we can then answer that there are no problems with the Roma population, unless even those who do not live in these environments have the data; we do not know. On the other hand, when we take the children of a family that was a bit more socially weak, I ask you what is wrong with Roma families, where after seven, eight children are cremated in the middle of the winter barefoot and half naked. How many measures has the Ministry taken in these cases? I also asked the Ministry – because when I go to the field and talk to these people, the Roma and the non-Romas, that there will be no problems, and they say how much violence among young people, how many thefts, more serious violations of public order and peace there are – I also asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They don't have that information. And when you ask the annual reports whether anything is being done to resolve this issue between some and others, they say: Violations of public order and peace in the area are falling. Please, how do you know if you don't have this information?Oh, my God! How will we solve these problems and this very strong problem in Dolenjska if we do not have basic data? Can we even talk about some ethnic groups for which we do not keep any records? Then we resolve some matters in a partial manner and thus only further threaten our own country before the European Court of Justice when we are solving some problems with connections such as water and everything else. Did anyone really wonder how it got there, where these people live? Has anyone ever spoken to people who have been violated by human rights because their land has been taken away and someone else lives on it? No, we, as a country, even boast of taking care of the water connection there. Wait a minute, on foreign land! However, we have state apartments in many municipalities, and they are certainly empty in Ljubljana. Then we allow someone to take the land and then pressure the congregation to handle it. You know the mayors meet with each other like they do with the others. And how can we expect a mayor to accept some responsibility and take care of connections on some foreign property? Ask our citizens what will happen if he starts building a house without having a building permit. There are problems for reasons only, and how much money they have to pay for this. Now you will say that this is a endangered group that cannot do so financially, and allow some information about this. I think Mr Weber said very well earlier that we have very many children at risk. We also have a lot of vulnerable older people, unfortunately this is not what was reflected in that part of yesterday's debate when we could adopt the law of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the protection allowance and not have to be returned to these people, including social ones. Now I ask you how this is arranged in the Roma population, for before the law we are all equal, respected. Family. Let me tell you that it is even a very well-known information that – for me, this is a 23-year-old girl – I think she has become a seven-year-old mother, even in Posavje, but we all know that this is a population that somehow creates a family very early. In some cases, I think it's a violation of some human rights when it's really about girls who are practically children. But if I give one average, a seven-member Roma family, where two of them are adults and have five children, gets a monthly salary of 2 000 250 euros. This family allows or allows children to go to school, and the second time these children stay at home, because no one takes care of them, they ask for food once — because no one examines what they are going through, even though the children’s docks are included and life goes on. Two thousand 200. Is that a solution to the Roma problem, Your Honor? Now we will probably accept some of the proposals for legal change, the law itself, and so bad, only the kind of thing that needs to be realized and be a little stricter and also have some clear information. Now we will probably go into some suggestions that we have already witnessed, once again allowing some to have far more rights than others, and allowing others to violate human rights. Personally and also people living in these areas do not welcome this and can no longer just watch, can no longer live in these areas, respected. We have come so far as to ask the municipality to move out of their own homes, for which they pay the tax to the country, which they had to at least take care of to build; today they can no longer live in that area, and we do not have enough data in some area of the so-called Roma population because we do not have this data. Not to say it's all in the money. That's a lot of money. The problem is how it's used. Let me say that in the period 2003 to 2016, various societies, including the Union of Roma Slovenia, received a little less than a million euros a year. A million euros a year, sir! And to be specific, they'll have 800,000 more. Do you think we have a step ahead? I think that the big problem here is the so-called office, and that at least they should record this data and only in this way, respected, we can start to deal with this really concretely and properly. We must not allow ourselves to be called both by the Roma population and by the non-Roma population, feeling an additional violation of human rights. No one in this country can be so privileged as to be allowed to take property from someone else in order to use it. That's not how it works. And if we cannot say this in front of some European institutions, then we must seriously imagine where we are taking this country. Since I myself organised a so-called tribunal in Dolenjska, for which I am also present from the Ministry and those who are not, I would like to thank for the participation, I have raised a key question: Are such high social support to Roma in favour of social inclusion or are they a hindrance? Because, you know, it happens when someone literally laughs at a neighbor who goes to work at 6:00 a.m., even though he's been listening to raving all night, and so on and so forth when others stay at home. What we have already said is that mailmen in individual settlements no longer hope to drive. And then when they try to fix it and even propose that mail be delivered to a Romani resident in that village, even having a job, they say no, and he'll get away with it. Maybe it's a little joke, but that was the truth. Meanwhile, those others literally all the troughs, almost chaining all the food home so that it won't take the night. In short, I will stop here, but before we really talk about any changes in the area of Roma issues, it is our job to gather data, but above all that the ministries are not hiding, by rewarding a situation on the one hand – I stress here once again because the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs representative has just arrived – that the conduct, including the social work centres, with the Roma and the non-Roma population is the same. For—don't nod! — you were taking the children of a arranged family, but on the other hand we have children who walk barefoot and – don’t laugh! – bosses walk, undressed and do not come to school, but this information, bodje, this is your answer, you must not have and you must not record them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u29	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of the Parliament, the Honourable Lady of the Ombudsman with fellow Members! Let me begin by congratulating you on the content good, on the scale of a rich and visually high-quality report, which also includes the Report on the Implementation of Previous Reports and the Report of the State Preventive Mechanism, which is also extremely important. With your relatively small team in recent years, you have successfully moved and promoted the elimination of human rights violations. Although there are still too many ministries, institutions and national constituencies that are underlying international humanitarian and human rights commitments, which also mean respect for human rights. I have successfully cooperated with you as Minister in the drafting of media legislation, which we then regulated and restricted hate speech in the media. In the event of human rights violations, the Government or the Ministry, Parliament and other institutions are usually involved significantly in the jurisdiction of the State. The National Assembly allows too often the absence of relevant laws and the adoption of bad laws allowing for the operation of sufficiently undersensitive bureaucratic or repressive bodies in society, restricting freedom, violating human rights in the legal, social, health, labour law or in other areas, usually subject to private interests. It commercialises public services and decomposes them. Members are often obedient soldiers of their political parties who sometimes do not feel and are not interested in the legitimate needs of people. Why, though, would it usually be that opposition parties are full of words about how to improve people’s lives when they have a scepter of authority in their hands and suddenly no longer listen to the needs of ordinary people? If governments and parliament had taken into account some of the previous recommendations made by the Ombudsman, it would have prevented a number of human hardships and the country would have avoided international embarrassment and some unnecessary costs. However, there are still many problems in the legal, social, health, environmental and labour fields. We have heard much about the problems of the Roma or the human rights problems of the Roma just before. I would say that there may be many things that hold what we have heard, but with regard to human rights, we certainly cannot avoid the fact that Roma in some areas do not have drinking water, which is human rights, and not electricity. It means, of course, that we should be significantly more active in these areas, and regardless of whether we know exactly how many there are in some area, we know that these problems exist and that they need to be solved much more actively than we are currently solving. Human rights are still being violated due to lengthy judicial proceedings. The judiciary often behaves self-sufficiently. Like they're not part of this country, they're hiding behind their independence. I hope, Commissioner, that you will be able to encourage more effective control of judges and the establishment of a system that will establish judicial responsibility, which we can also read in your report; therefore, that your efforts are also in this direction. We sometimes experience even greater arrogance than in the judiciary in the field of health care to the sick and in higher education institutions, where the rector and part of the professor's elite with their satellites try to stop studying in their mother tongue on behalf of profit with foreign students. All their private interests hide behind so-called autonomy. Of course for our public money. I was especially happy to put yours on the ground. You drew attention to institutions where freedom of movement was taken from people; to prisons and police stations. It is particularly concerned about the conduct of certain operators in the homes of older citizens. I especially read this part with interest. An important job has been done in the refugee problem, making it easier for many refugees to stay in Slovenia. You warn the Minister of Health to prepare a proposal for amendments to the Mental Health Act. You point out the severe social and housing problems of the poor, and especially of the homeless, who are increasingly — even women and children among the homeless — and the competent ministry, municipalities and parliament are underactive in this area. We will also adopt a budget this year in which there will be insufficient solutions for the areas I have just mentioned. The competent ministries assure us that poverty, too long of waiting periods and homelessness must be because it is so elsewhere, and of course it is not. Wealth in our country is enough not to be necessary if the government is more sensitive to the needs of the most vulnerable. The problems are too polluted environment, endangering the health of children and adults for decades and not enough listening to the competent ministries. I am concerned about the irregularity of the area of labour relations, as you do, as we point out — you, some Members — every year, we point out the non-payment of wages and social security contributions, the chain of businesses, the mobbing, bullying and the lack of supervision. Measures in the case of infringements are not sufficient. The inspection services, however, are understaffed and under-authorised. I agree with you that measures are necessary for an effective system of payroll control, which the Ministry of Finance could have provided long ago if it had not followed the interests of capital. I am pleased that each year you also address the area of pension and disability insurance. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs has been allowing for years an unfair pension system, which has steadily deteriorated. The long-term freezing of pensions has made the situation worse. By tightening the terms of the security allowance, which has become a loan and not a non-refundable contribution to pensions, a large number of people have resigned and dropped below the poverty threshold. Many low - income pensioners are unable to survive with dignity. Likewise, many employees do not have enough to support their families with dignity. Desus points to this and manages to mitigate the existing situation. With its only 11 members in the National Assembly, however, it cannot affect that the situation in this area has changed significantly for the better. You have been alerting the need to determine the type and degree of physical impairment for years and the competent ministry is not responding. Service providers in homes for older citizens are also under-supervised. The problem increases the fact that some operators are in the organisation of profitable organisational forms, while the search for profits in the care of the most vulnerable groups usually leads to abuse. Your warnings to the competent ministry regarding social work centres, which need to be reorganised, are also important in order to be actively involved in solving people's problems, where there is currently too much red tape. The health sector, where you point out the length of waiting time, the lack of necessary resources and legislation and the need to improve professional supervision, is a priority. Madam Ombudsman, your work in all areas where human rights are being violated is extremely important. I hope that you will continue to be successful and that those ministers, Members and others who have not yet listened to you will listen to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u31	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marina Levicar and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for saying so. A respected guardian with her coworkers, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues, colleagues! It is true that today we are considering the 2015 report of the Ombudsman, which in some ways shows what is the situation in the area of the quality of life of citizens and citizens, and how the country, with some understanding of the value system, is actually addressing the issue of human rights and in what way it also nurtures this issue. Today we have heard very different debates that touch on the importance and understanding of human rights and, of course, I can generally agree that, when a country adopts legislation, it must have on this issue, that is, human rights issues, of course, also some educational direction, also some educational drive so that the mentality of the nation, when it is actually asking about human rights, can be changed and developed. However, I do not think that the country can answer all the questions in a well-intentioned way, even if it concerns a half-lived history, which I think may eventually find the answer to the larger changing generations. I think that this may not be just about past history, but I think that this point actually concerns a number of different areas, which may also concern our lives at this point. When I read this report, I have to say that, of course, I am not and do not want to be a pessimistic person, to look exclusively pessimistic at the country that we have, and of course I do not want to attach any medals, but some things have changed for the better. But it is true that there are still a few things left that are unresolved and have been dragging themselves for too long in these 25 years, since we have our own country. If we look at it, because we have really talked about discrimination in general today, it is important to stress here that something has been done by protecting against discrimination. We've confirmed a law establishing a guardian against discrimination. In this way, of course, we have also followed the guidelines of the European directives and in some ways tried to address this issue at least on a legislative level. It is true, however, that when we talk about the issue of discrimination, that there remain unresolved issues in the area of, as has already been heard today, in the area of the Roma community, as well as a broader issue concerning the very quality integration of certain individuals into our society. Of course I agree here. As for the title, I will not say the Roma issue, but rather the more Roma question that we have not been consistent here in these 25 years and that we should approach these very pressing issues a little bit more impractical and up-to-date, which, in fact, we have not yet addressed by legislation, even in a legislative sense. It was true that when we talked about the Roma communities, that there were some fires, of course, we tried to put out also by providing certain individuals with access to clean water, to sanitation, but this is of course a broader question that with such results as society in some civilisational sense they cannot be satisfied and it is also wrong to be. That is why I see, above all, a solution or some possible solution in the system itself, how we really address the integration policy, what this integration policy is like for us, even in the global light, what is going on in the global world, whether it is also through integration policy, that is, the Roma community, whether it is rightly addressed through, as it is said, the very way of integration or how successful this integration is in our country at all. If we look only at the question of the Roma community, we can see that when we talk about integration, it is very different in Slovenia. We have a Roma community in Prekmurje, where we can talk about some successful integration of Roma nationality into our society, and we have a big gap between what is happening in Dolenjska. It is true, however, that we should address this issue a little more broadly, and it seems to me that even by the state, when it refers to different stakeholders dealing with Roma issues, we should have a little higher expectations on their part. I also mean, of course, the Union of the Roma of Slovenia, because it is simply incomprehensible that Roma integration in Prekmurje can be quite successful and we can talk about some cases of results, while in Dolenjska it is not. I think that when we talked about the data itself, how many Roma there are in Slovenia, it is very difficult to agree on this issue or it can only be spoken roughly, because it is also a question of how many Roma, if any, are actually spoken for Roma in the census. When we talk about Roma children, this question is, of course, very similar. These figures are never accurate, but the question is whether the country can record how many Roma children are in school, because this would mean that we should then collect data also on how many Bosnian children, or how many Bosnian children, Serbian I mean, I don't know if this is actually an exact title. [[...]] However, I agree with colleague Bah Žibert when she said that when we talk about equality before the law - we agree on something here. We agree that when we talk about the question of the Roma community, it is necessary to address it through the question of whether the cultural identity of an individual is inherently linked to its social status. I think that too often when we talk about the Roma issue, that we have not exceeded this framework, that their social status must not be their cultural identity. Cultural identity is a language, cultural identity is a custom, a cultural tradition, but it cannot necessarily be linked to the social status of an individual, because we are finally talking about citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that when we know, as a society, this distinction is a qualitative distinction to be made or addressed, and this is a question that I think we can actually only talk about some appropriate integration and resolution of this issue. Here I agree, it is still happening that in Prekmurje some Roma parents are absolutely self-evident to give their children education, that these children are being educated, while, too often, we hear what is happening in Dolensk, where parents need to be convinced that their children have to go to school, and that great efforts are being made to get these children to go to school, that they are being heard too often by the public, and that they are Roma, because that is how they are; they are, they are such a nation. I think that we as a society should simply not agree to this, and in this sense I am talking about the distinction between what is actually a cultural identity and what is a social status of a citizen and how the state is able to empower itself in this regard must help. Here I would conclude that we must also ask the representatives of the Roma community to become slightly more coherent interlocutors and, on the other hand, representatives of the local authorities, because they are now so deeply divided that they are very difficult to communicate with each other. But I think that simply if we want to address this issue of quality, these individuals, stakeholders will simply have to sit at the table and somehow overcome the differences that have occurred and that may still be happening on the ground today. It's easy for them to do. I would also like to touch on the subject of ensuring equal opportunities. We know that we have also witnessed a referendum in this mandate, which has also touched on the issue of citizens who are sexually oriented. We have also adopted a law in this mandate, which in some ways tried to eliminate discrimination in certain areas. It is true, however, that there are still some open questions which were somehow the most accepted by the public, and here I think we should try even more to raise awareness, to encourage some public debates, because I agree, the referendums do not really seem to be the forum that could somehow respond to these questions in a qualitative way, especially because it ultimately does not matter which political parties were fighting for a question. In the end, individuals who are most affected by this issue remain the ones who are most affected in this regard. So I think that we should make more effort in the direction of awareness and in the direction of some public debate, and perhaps not always with our heads through the wall, no matter what we fight for, but it is not necessarily the right answer. As regards the constitutional rights themselves and the ethics of the public word, this chapter in a report which, of course, touches on an enemy speech, for which today it has already been raised in certain positions, even in some debates. It is, of course, symptomatic for hate speech to appear in the face of various social phenomena, including debates, and certainly this phenomenon of hate speech is always waning, but I must say that as a member of this question I am sensitive, and I think it is appropriate that this issue should be given some attention, of course, also in the National Assembly, Members, not only me, but all Members of Parliament have already debated about the hate speech and somehow, I think, even appropriately addressed. Again, it seems to me that this is a question of some kind of mentality and of some kind, as I would call it, of democratic development. Of course, legislation must somehow once again have this educational drive to try to solve these things legally, but at the end of the day it may also be a matter of generations, as well as generally some of the mentalities of our people, how we understand public discourse at all, and how we really understand the ethics of the public word. However, this issue also touched on the issues of Internet security itself or how we identify ourselves on the Internet with hate speech, where some solutions have also been made publicly so that this anonymity on the Internet may need to be addressed. I don't think it's right or that it wouldn't be the right solution. I think that it is simply a moderator, or those who own or manage different websites, that they are simply responsible for how dialogue or public discourse, which is of course public, is, within some websites, leading to the elimination of anonymity, I think, would not be a solution, especially because I think that issues that open up on different blogs or websites can sometimes be very sensitive, even intimately sensitive. I think it is kind of right that if a person is difficult to express himself or herself in a way that he is personally exposed to a problem that he or she personally is very attached to, that he or she has the possibility to address this issue anonymously on the Internet, and that is how a public debate takes place. In fact, I support anonymity on the Internet; not because we should protect hate speech in this way, because we should sanction it differently, i.e. through moderators who know this hate speech also qualitatively, it is also appropriate to report it to law enforcement authorities and in this way also sanction it, but it seems to me that in some ways there is also a field that actually shows us what kind of society we really live in, and which may be those problems that do not only touch some major things, as I would call it, social references or some topics that are very important to society, but also some that may be very trivial for someone, that we also recognize such issues and start talking about them qualitatively. Finally, because I do not have much time left, I would say that the report addresses many more of the issues I have been talking about today, and I think it is good that we are critical of all these issues. The report is extensive, as has been said, that some questions have remained unanswered, and as a Member, I would like answers to these questions to be as many as possible in the future and more concrete legislative solutions. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u33	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Only in the part where maybe we didn't get along well when somehow the Roma community was comparing itself with Bosnian children and so on. It is a special ethnic community with special law and special resources for this purpose. If we want to monitor progress, at least the authorities need to have data, otherwise it's all in vain because we won't know. All your debate was of great quality in this respect and it is important that we also see a comparison between one work and the other part of Slovenia. This is the problem that I was talking about, not that it's some kind of personal data processing that we know has limitations. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u35	Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare for Mr Franz Breznik and Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guardian with co-workers, representatives of ministries, governments, colleagues and fellow Members! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman or the Watch Tower Institute fully for their dedicated and truly faithful work done in behalf of citizens and citizens, as well as for the exemplaryly prepared report on last year’s work, which is prepared so that we can really identify the greatest shortcomings or warnings of the Ombudsman. I would like these warnings to be taken more seriously by all concerned than we have taken so far, since if we were to take them more seriously, the Ombudsman would not need to be reminded of the same or the same problems so many times. However, I am pleased that some of the problems or warnings have been resolved and that the Ombudsman also commends those institutions that have been able to improve the situation. Thus, the Ombudsman has long been pointing out the problem of long waiting types or lengthy judicial proceedings. At times, the decisions of the administrative authorities, such as in institutions, social work centres, the Ministry of Labour and so on, are too slow. I have also warned myself several times about the length of time at the Ministry of Labour, I remember, just recently, about the long deadlines for appeals to scholarships and other appeals procedures. The ministry then answered me what it would do to shorten these procedures; some will or will, and some will still stay too long, which is wrong, and I am sorry that this is the case. The Ombudsman or the Ombudsman also warns that social work centres should be reorganised. I also personally agree with this, and I think that there is a wider public, but probably also a competent ministry. In the past, they have already replied to me that they are preparing for this reorganisation, so that it seems essential to them as well. I really hope that it will soon be possible for social workers or employees at these social work centres to offer more professional assistance and more advice and less work on bureaucracy, which is now a major obstacle to their work. This is also what our customers will tell us if I can call them customers, citizens and citizens who are turning to social work centres. The effectiveness of the various inspections has been highlighted several times in this debate. I also have to stop myself in these inspections, with their inefficiency. I find it particularly unacceptable, or really terrible, this inefficiency of an inspection for work. The Ombudsman warns and also probably the competent authorities know that this is the situation here due to human resources malnutrition, but I do not think that human resources malnutrition should be the cause of such a situation. I think that with reallocations, because I newly know that employment cannot be employed, that public sector employment is limited, but I am convinced that there are still a lot of redistribution reserves in the public sector – a wider public sector – and that there are experts who can quickly learn these inspections in various areas. I was also stabbed by a house inspection because I had a problem with this myself. We note that this apartment inspection is also ineffective, that it has insufficient jurisdiction, but I also know that there are many comments by apartment owners in multi-housing buildings and there is nothing an inspection can do. Therefore, this inspection should also be further strengthened and their powers increased. This has not yet been said today, so I especially point out this, because a lot of other things, which I have also stated to myself to speak, have already been highlighted. However, I still have to stop once again under-supervised by the State in the field of labour rights. Indeed, the country has too little control over the payment of contributions here, over the effectiveness of the collection of these contributions by Furs. This review, according to the Ombudsman, is not effective and is also imprudent. Unfortunately, this is how the Ombudsman stresses, and I agree with it, more often protecting employers or non-payers themselves than workers. This is really sad, and I am sure that we all have such opinions, and that is why we should really do something in this area. We have repeatedly warned the Desus Group or members of Desus that it should somehow change or make this system more effective to recover social security contributions. This could also improve not only social security but also social security, because if contributions were paid and people received a solid salary for the work they are doing, they could also be better wages. We are certainly against these low wages: for solid work, we are insolvent. If the state could do something in this area to make wages more solid and to make contributions better, poverty, which we have talked about today, as well as poverty among employees, would also be reduced. For we all know that pensions reflect the past work or wages and contributions that have been made for this purpose and, therefore, if we solve this, if we make a substantial improvement in this area, the social situation of all these people at risk will also be better, and I think that there will be less poverty, at least it should be. So for decent wages and decent pensions, we stand up and through these two institutes, as I mentioned, we could certainly make some improvements. Well, I'm glad the Guardian also pointed out the cuts in the waiting line in health care, which we talked about this week a lot on Tuesday. Especially interesting, for the end, is the Ombudsman's finding that there are long waiting lines and a lot of things that have not been regulated in health care, that it has been replaced, or that so many ministers have been replaced, that there have been so many exchanges in recent years of ministers. Maybe we did the right thing if we didn't switch if we were against the interpretation of the last minister. Perhaps, I hope, it will help to improve the situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u37	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u38	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear guardian, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! Of course, I will not say anything new if I commend your report; as a product, as a whole. In the report itself, I am particularly pleased that the auditors or those in whom you find out what is happening to them or what is not happening to them, what is wrong with them, I am pleased that they do not comment on your findings, that they do not deny your work, that they recognize what is actually happening to them, and even if these discoveries are sometimes, I will not say painful, but unpleasant for a number of institutions. And, of course, the bad news about all this is, for the first time, it's getting longer. Not because some of us do not want to talk and want to read, but as soon as this report is long, of course it is possible to detect many violations, many mistakes and many inconsistencies that occur to people at different ends every day. After 80 recommendations, direct, it was possible to list, read through this long report and which may be the most frightening or negative in this whole thing, of course, that many of your recommendations, many of your findings, observations repeat year after year, nothing changes. Of course, it is not your job to lock it up to keep it under lock and key, your purpose is different; it is a warning, it is a suggestion of change, but it seems to me simply unacceptable that the copy-paste issues in the report are repeated, not because you would have some fixed ideas at the Ombudsman's office, but because in fact individual institutions do not approach problems. However, I think it is a little different than the case of the judiciary, or the police, or not least any Court of Auditors, what kind of financial repressions they warn and hit you a little bit in the pocket, than, say, a guardian who is very gentle, but very prudent in these matters. I think that all those, all those institutions in which these things are repeated year after year must somehow imagine and yet make it all over. In many ways, in many of your findings, you draw attention to the human resources manna. Of course, that's all right and all right, but I'm afraid it's going to be very difficult in this area to take a short noticeable step forward. Why? We listen many times, now that we are dealing with the budget for the next two years, so many and so many people are employed in the widest public administration. So if we are to employ inspectors and other supervisory institutions – but I agree that it is necessary, including inspectors, to say that there is a need to provide additional employment – I do not know how the opposition colleagues will look at us when we say so many and so many new jobs, just in an inspection, one or them, but it is a public administration in the broadest sense of the word. I agree that any strengthening yes, and above all a greater emphasis, would not harm the more effective work of individual institutions. I need to focus here on two of your recommendations. First, I'm going to start in the back, 77 numbers are on, and he says it's still necessary, and this thing is repeated year after year, and for a long time, we've all been aware that it has to be solved. It speaks of the need to make an analysis of the efficiency of both the matrix and individual units of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment. And, of course, this will be done in such a way that this effectiveness analysis will also be followed by measures to make these measures more targeted and implemented, of course, in the interest of both efficiency and more rapid response. Because the people who land at the employment agency — that is, the time is not their ally. We must admit this, we are aware that the matter is under-effective, under-responsive for quite some time, and some significant progress has not been made here. On this occasion, too, through my debate, the call to take a step or two forward in this area. Another issue, which is that both the National Assembly and us individuals working here are directly tanning. And that's the recommendation that's listed under number 67. But it goes roughly by inviting us, or letting us know, that it would be very nice for the bill-maker, namely, the Government, to be required to adopt legal solutions also by an action plan, i.e. those implementing rules that would lead only to legal matter to its effect. I must say that I will take this seriously in my work in the future, as far as I have not yet – a little criticism to myself – of course I have taken into account. On this occasion, I'll finish, but I'll tell you what. I wish as much as your resources allow you to participate in the drafting of legislation. I think, however, that from this specific aspect of yours, which you are covering, of course, is very broad, that you may note that when the law is being drawn up, when the final text is not yet in place, it is far from being implemented to draw attention, in view of your experience, to what you see on the ground, what you are no doubt noticing, just to draw attention to these matters. I'm sure the lawmakers, the Ministry, will listen to you. Why do I think that's gonna happen? Since I am sure that the marriage will then be better, and especially that after the next reports have been made before us and the ministries in the coming years, there may be fewer sides. So, there won't be so many findings of inconsistencies, mistakes, violations of human rights. I think this must be in everyone's interest. Of course, you know that on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs, Mrs Nussdorfer, you are always welcome. He always loves you there, and we see and we listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u39	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u40	President, thank you for your word. A beautiful greeting to the Ombudsman, as of course to all those who accompany this debate in the National Assembly! Of course, my colleagues and colleagues, too. Today it has been quite clear that this report you have prepared is very good, we can even say excellent. And of course we're kind of worried that every year is longer. This means that there are increasing human rights problems in our country. Here I must stress that in our parliamentary group, as well as in my own person, we are concerned about the question that is connected, and I will not only say it with the older generation, but especially since we are a party with such a name that we are particularly interested in this population, the problems that are in some way occurring are repeated in the older population. First of all, most of the elderly, especially those left alone, are often left alone by a widow with a low pension and living in her own home or home. This is not such a problem within cities, the bigger problem is the expression of older ones living in villages or living in rural areas, because these people — especially when they talk about the gloomy space — are actually more connected, even more connected to the apartment they live in, and are still connected to a fraction of the land that gives them additional resources for survival, then, in fact, while they themselves are able to manage it. We want to bring the law we want so badly about long-term care and personal assistance to the parliamentary groups as soon as possible. Dear Guardian! But here I really urge you to help us and to try to bring this matter to us with all your authority — by encouraging those who are preparing this legislation — so that we can talk and settle this matter as soon as possible. I know, I'm sure there's a basic problem here with money, but you know, we on citizens and citizens, and especially on the elderly, we won't be able to actually save any more money than we've already saved. In fact, these people are on the verge of barely surviving and long-term care especially for those who want to spend as long as possible in their environment in which they lived, it is very important that I do not talk about personal assistance. These are mainly thoughts that most often occur to me when I look at the report of the Ombudsman in Slovenia. However, since I come from the pomura area, I might still end up saying something about those who may have been neglected in our society quite often. They're Rommies. Although the country is social to take care of them, all I have to say is that we have succeeded in integration here in the gloomy area and that there is no question for Roma parents in the pomura area whether these children will go to school. There, this matter is already self-evident, and in some parts of Slovenia, of course, these matters are not self-evident, and we will also have to do all of them together in this area, including with the help of the Ombudsman, a breakthrough, so that we can say that we have managed to integrate the Roma or the Roma community in our society as much as possible throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u41	Mrs Eva Irgl has the word, to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat, and then to the conclusion, where the representative of the Government gets the word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you once again very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Guardian! From the outset, I am in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and I feel that I have been able to precisely detect what personally seems to be the most important human rights violations that have taken place in 2015. Now, however, I have listened to the entire discussion of both coalition Members and opposition Members, and I must say that we have all opened up quite a few important points through which we have pointed out violations of human rights. However, at the end of the day, given that I really have very little time, I would like to draw attention once again to one important story that happened again the day before yesterday, even though we have always warned about it. So, the Supreme Court told the day before yesterday that the kidnapping of the Korean boys was illegal. We have also made additional recommendations in your report in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which are also related to this case, and unfortunately they have been rejected by the coalition members. I would really like to ask you, Commissioner, once again, to warn you – because you probably intended to respond, but I am warning you once again, given that you will receive the word below – I would ask you to answer me whether you will publicly request the resignation of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Mrs Anja Kopač Dark – given her objective and subjective responsibility in this case. If Mrs Anja Kopač had any backbone, I would have given up on myself, but in this case, because you, Madam Guardian, are also important authorities, in particular in the field of human rights violations and protection, I expect you to ask the Minister to resign today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u43	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Prepare for the conclusion of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear guardian with co-workers, with deputies and distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I, too, am in a similar timeframe, so I will not go through the entire report, and congratulations and wish to continue the Ombudsman's good work with all the colleagues, for which we have also committed ourselves and made every effort to ensure that he has all the conditions for a successful and effective work. Well, I have to take a slight response just in case there is no remaining in the air and there will not be an answer in the State Council for Current Affairs, for those matters that are under way that have not yet been decided by the authorities, of course, we do not consider it appropriate to deal in a political manner with matters that need to be resolved legally. This is where my question, which I hope will be answered further, is not new, it is still from the meeting of the Commission, so I will simply repeat it, because I expect the Ombudsman to be the guardian of her work, because this is a report on the work of the Ombudsman, although we like to extend it to the debate on the state of human rights in our country, on current issues. I am very interested in the work of the Ombudsman; in the Law on the Ombudsman, we have the opportunity to apply the principle of justice and good governance in our work. I would like to know to what extent in my work, if any, these principles apply, how they reflect on the handling of matters, because I will also respond a little to the challenge posed with regard to some of the conclusions of around 60. It is also a question of the principle of justice. The question, which is a very good topic and opens up a lot of space, is that we are very eager to go to literacy, to what narrow legal definitions to specific issues, and I am therefore also interested in the question of the principle of fairness from this point of view. Because when I read the report, where I have already said, after two years I find that my wish has not come true, that the report is not cheaper, but is thicker, I try to see critically why it is so. I can tell that's because the Keeper's doing more. When I look at the numbers, I find that every year we've solved about the same number of cases, we're going around 3,000. However, I would like to ask you to correct me if I am wrong in my assessment when I am looking at numbers, I can find that in the time of our government, so in 2015, one third of the less-founded cases handed down to the Ombudsman than in the year before and beyond – because I am running out of time I would not be speaking in detail. The areas in which, if viewed as such, the most human rights violations are also significant. So in this part I repeat my call that I miss somehow an assessment of what kind of human rights violations are: whether it is an abuse of power or merely a failure to realize the interests of individuals who eventually turn to the Ombudsman when they fail in the relevant procedures – and of course I am not referring now to the basic current case of the Korean boys, but generally in this work. In this regard, I would really like to know what they are, whether they are infringements — in a more professional language — or whether they are detected infringements of negative or positive status rights, that is, when the authority falls on an individual and this power of authority is exercised, whether they are in certain procedures that we like to assess as bureaucratic procedures, people do not recognize the right when they consider that they are going along with them and that they belong to them. In this part, it is true – now I must respond to my colleague Pikla – this National Assembly has committed itself to the request of the United Left to take full account of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities in its work and, of course, to include implementing rules in the drafting of legislation. Thus, an individual and, of course, all interested, can understand what the situation will be after the adoption of the new law. Because I'm running out of time; so there are about 60 numbers where very interesting recommendations are made and there I wonder if the Keeper can't go [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u45	We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the Ombudsman is given the floor. Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, has the Bsedo.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u46	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! When I look at the hour, I see that we are discussing that there are few Members in the Chamber, but I am sure they are also monitoring this meeting from their offices, at the work they have. Introductoryly, I would like to thank you first for all your presentations. Last but not least, it's an opportunity for me and your colleagues to hear you think. So, first of all, Mrs Evi Irgle for a very comprehensive report from our special home, our commission. There we are always present and there is also a debate about that long. Then, of course, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, who you have performed intensively, the representative of the Government, here are also representatives of various ministries, and of course all of you who have opened up certain topics. And now, because at first I had exactly 15 minutes that I took advantage of, now that I have a little bit more, I would try to take away all of what I heard, and somehow I would respond to you slowly. When Mrs Irgle mentioned whether we are only working on initiatives or also opening broader questions, I recalled that I should always say, but there is no time for the Ombudsman to monitor the real situation in the country, not only to receive mail that comes to us in different ways, but also to respond to very current topics that also touch larger groups of people. Especially vulnerable groups. That is why, in 2015, 47 different broad issues were raised in the year that we are reporting. This means a great deal; this means that each of these 47 were a problem. A child is usually touched; a child as a patient, a child with special needs, a child for whom we may not get exactly the answers to a particular question, and we therefore open a broader question, which means that we are exploring things and that we are, of course, trying to determine whether we should also need a specific recommendation. We also open on our own initiative, but these were less than 19 last year. Why less, because we need the consent of the affected person here. It often happens that we are alerted to some irregularities, but when we are looking for this person to agree and agree, there is no consensus on this; therefore we cannot deal with this matter and if it does not apply to a wider group of citizens, not as a broader initiative. The next thing Mrs Irgle pointed out was, if I understood correctly, the last open graves – the killing sites, as she said. Here the Ombudsman points out that it is the task of the detection, police and prosecution authorities, the prosecutions – as you yourself said you proposed even a new law that should say so – so the thing is that they participate, if they think it is necessary, in these reviews, it is certainly not a matter of the Ombudsman. It is true, however, that the Ombudsman in all his years – and we have not stopped it – even in the 2015 annual report, I believe that some things in our past history are certainly not proud of us. That is why we have also made many recommendations, even in the last report you can find it necessary to arrange graves, a decent burial, of course, that relatives also have access to these places. I think that matters are also being settled, because next week I will also attend an event of this kind that will be in honour of events that have taken place in the past. You mentioned the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, we wrote that the urgency would be deepened, i.e. a broader analysis. However, why – because it is necessary to read the entire text on page 125, because at the end of the page it reads: “The data on the proportion of convictions of the European Court of Human Rights against Slovenia is a cause for concern.” So, we wrote that we were concerned, but we wrote it a little bit wider. This information is not a surprise to us, although it is an exhilarating concern; we believe it requires an in-depth analysis. Why – because this analysis would answer those questions when this was happening, because we all know that the European Court of Justice does not also decide in the year when the infringement occurred, but after many years, and certainly if it is a year when we get such an assessment, it is necessary to ask what period it took in the past, whether these were some mass-wide violations that could represent a large number of people's impact, but only an analysis can give such an accurate answer. Well, that didn't surprise us then, but we were worried; who wouldn't if you were on that list. But since we could not explain without an in-depth analysis – now even the ministry has a special department and will follow these judgments – it seemed perfectly right for us to find out what they were referring to, because that's the only way to say it, you see, these mistakes should not be repeated. Furthermore, a matter that was not only raised by you, but by someone else – Mr Horvat, of course, immediately added that it was a matter of 2016, i.e. the so-called Koroška boy. It is true that things that are not finished, which are still the subject of a number of procedures, are obviously difficult to speak with a point on the i. However, because this matter is so engrossed because it is actually the subject of both media discussions and debates of all people, let me go beyond the framework of this report, which is for last year, and let me say some of my thoughts. So, the Ombudsman didn't take these two boys away, and he can never bring them back, just as he's ever expected and invited me, even on the posters I saw a record: The Keeper and the Minister, return the child to us! Well, that's the first thing. The other thing I have to stress is all the stories that concern children, who are orphans who remain after cruel events in families that are marked by violence, and many other things. For these stories, even though I know that the State with institutions needs to find an answer, on behalf of children who will live for a very long time, I hope that they will not be the fruit of public debate. For all these children are destined. Thus, we will never forget the Coroque girl, even when she is married when she dies, someone will say that this has happened to a well - known Koroan girl. Unfortunately, we have two more Korean boys now, and these two are obviously going to go through their lives marked by a lot of things. The stories that are the subject of such terrible events that are in our families are beyond our ability to speak out loud. I've been doing this myself for years, and I also know now that all of us, professionally, including the Keeper, are bound by the confidentiality of the data. On the other hand, I am concerned that the whole of Slovenia, from Pomurje to Kolpa and Piran, knows everything. People judge, people explain, people ask. So sometimes when I think about some things and someone asks me, I ask myself, where do people get such a good knowledge of every family, events in it, and I have to keep my mouth shut about it. I have to split the matter into two parts; the first part is part of my old parents. So, old parents – I don't know why it's just about grandma, I haven't been able to figure that out yet, but it's only about my grandmother's lawyer and her grandmother who's supposed to be violating her right to family life, even though we all know and see her grandfather on tape. So, this thing is a matter of court proceedings. On these procedures, there's a lawyer on this road that we see in the media, Grandma's lawyer, and here are the things you're talking about. First sentence of the Administrative Court and now the Supreme Court. When we discussed the matter, I explained that we do not interfere in the procedures initiated by the lawyer on behalf of the grandmother, it is a matter of procedure. However, given that in this case we have begun to study the benefit of children, in this case we have also called a press conference, where I, as the guardian with my deputy in charge of this area and now had to attend another event, explained that the Ombudsman must accept the expert evaluation of those who have examined whether the greatest benefit of the children, namely those two children, has been taken into account. So I didn't have a chance here as a guardian, and I probably don't have one anywhere in these cases to analyze the child, to deepen into this family, but you accept what these experts say was decided for these two children in this case, so that their benefit was protected. Of course, that's what the procedures are about. At the same time, when we said that the expert evaluation was for the benefit of children, we warned, and everyone forgets these warnings, and they always add that I am covering for the minister – we have warned about many things. The first point was that when family disputes arise, they should be brought to justice from the centres. The minister immediately, I think, the same day after our press release in this area, said that the family legislation is changing and things will be going forward, and you can see that the subject of the debate has been moved from the centres – because they can be involved in the situation because they can have their own position, they know the family - to the courts. So this was somehow, we'll say for all future cases, of course, we can't think back, we can't think about success. The second was my claim — and I insist in all similar cases — that child abductions in such a way that they are taken away in kindergarten, in school, on the road, or anywhere, could be a matter of different causes, perhaps sometimes also weighty, because the child is not a traveller, I have said. You can't take the kid away like a suitcase and carry him somewhere because he has feelings because he has his toys because he left his clothes to sleep somewhere. So I was critical here, too. I did not agree with this, although some argue, and in some cases it may even be true that there are special situations where you cannot do this elsewhere than where the child is and is not at home. We also offered an advocate as a child's voice, but this was not realized, because then a recognised expert in this field, a professor in this field, in social work and deaning, took the role of advocates of these two children. Therefore, this third proposal of ours to put me on the stand — that would be the person who would hear the child live as they think — was not accepted. So we responded, and I also added that the contacts of old parents are certainly necessary in all cases, especially if children remain orphans. As far as responsibility is concerned, you know, we all know that the Director and the Director, i.e. two centres, have assumed responsibility, and have also resigned. I have found a major breach in the ministries myself, and, as you know, I have never proposed any resignation from the Minister, but I have warned of various errors, shortcomings, and I hope so too in this case. We have just pointed out at the press conference what the Supreme Court and the Administrative Court are pointing out that the decision to which you complain should be given. This was not a timely one, and it was a big mistake that it was not decided on fostering with a decision that would have signs, so why are you suitable grandparents, why they are not suitable; in short, something they can complain about. And that's what the lawyer warned me about, and that goes through all of these cases. So, confidentiality binds me, it can be the best story in the family, everyone can be beautiful, careful, but I certainly can't discuss with the public what I learned from the authorities. Then we should, of course, focus on some other answers, as I am obviously not feeling well now. For example, in the area of discrimination – there is now no representative of New Slovenia, Mrs Dimic, who has highlighted this – faiths, believers. I must say that the Keeper repeatedly repeats and alone, many times you hear me that tolerance is of all different, different importance. This also includes tolerance for different religions, to the greatest faith in Slovenia, and I stress, even when we do not receive initiatives, that I meet annually – because there is no time, I will not read, in our annual report you have on page 71 as many as three events related to religious communities. So, Guardian, we have started to write at the end of each chapter also events, that you can see that we are not only acting on initiatives, but we are trying to open up areas that are not being opened up, even open up ourselves and participate as a guardian in a number of events. I have just met in the field of religious communities, every year, and I will also be with the director of the largest, i.e. Radiotelevisions of Slovenia, we have made great progress in the field of religious programmes, to which we have been reminded by people in different letters, which were not initiatives, but letters as such, and of course also that I attended various events for all religious communities. They were also at the Ministry of Culture in December, so we also raised a number of questions. The euthanasia issue, I'm afraid I don't have time to read it to you. However, here the Member highlighted the title; the title Euthanasia as a human right – and of course the content should also be read. We were approached by someone who wished that his mother would not suffer and die with dignity. Many people also turn to us in the field when they ask me if I have the right to die with dignity. So I didn't think it was wrong to consult on the topic of euthanasia, which is closely related to arson. Well, with us, those who die must not suffer, and palliative care is essential. Of course, we could not, with or on the initiative that we have received and I have presented it, gentlemen and his suffering mothers, go through it; although we are not allowed to do so in Slovenia, we are talking about life as a right, but on the other hand we cannot pass through that, that some countries have this, that people are also addressing such proposals with us, and that the Law on Patient Rights also allows you to write down your will and give it to the representative of the patient's rights, how you want to do without the pain of not prolonging your life. So now I have to hurry up with the answers. With regard to legislation, there was also one question, I think, Occlusion. Of course, the Ombudsman often advertises when it comes to legislative changes. Otherwise, time and our personnel do not allow us to be as thoroughly prepared as you do, but from the point of view of human rights often, especially in two ministries, justice and internal affairs, we work together. When we get some marriage to review – my deputy Ivan Shelih is very active here, work through all possible, weekends and leisure time to prepare weighty comments. But we have recently, just yesterday, made a comment on the Aliens Act, which has somehow been treated more mysteriously here and we have not been taught what will happen in it. Then we are the Long-Terms Act, mentioned by Mr Jurša – I think that this is a law in which we have long been alerted to the need, and we are working together, so that it seems very important for us to do something in this area as well. Mr. Horvath, you asked how justice is and how good governance is. You see, everything you asked about will be the subject of a future report, because I have recently found that we do not record so precisely, although I do not think that this will be a clear indicator of the situation, whose rights are being precisely violated and who are violators of these rights, because in some cases there are more violators, so we have introduced to the Ombudsman even a new information system, which was not easy. Now we are trying to find out from the examples who is a violator, whose right is violated, and even during the course of the year, that is, this year we are already doing this well, send a letter in which we are also alerting him to good governance, including justice, and to the need to do something in this area. As far as justice is concerned, it is not the subject of this report, but it will only be for 2016 – I have just warned that it is unfair to find so many wills that were undeclared that it was not fair for those who left the property, but for others. However, I must say that in the annual report we often warn about good governance. Good governance is something that is more than legislation, which is more than a minimum when an employee says, "I've done everything by law, everything is fine, ma'am, I can't help you." It has happened that people have remained at the minimum of water-free survival, in severe troubles and is the Keeper We have done much more than is expected of the Keeper, and during the year we wrote to some institutions whether it would be appropriate to apologize for the damage. So, this good governance is really a broader perception, and I have to tell you that this morning I was thinking about maybe a day of human rights, I've talked to the deputies, and I've devoted myself to a topic that is this, that is, justice and good governance. Of course, I am in the case of righteousness — I mentioned the wills — a little more skeptical that we will find the right results, for there may be a number of opinions about righteousness; something that may be just for me, there may not be. Therefore, I do not pretend that even if we invite high experts, this notion of justice into reality can be put in full place, but here at the wills I thought it was not fair. It's not fair for you to write a will and then it happens like it would have happened if you hadn't written it. And that this is also a matter of bad governance, we have warned, of a breach of the principle of trust, for when a person writes, carries out, works hard, and does not even want his relatives to know who he has left behind before death, because it is usually another desire, your trust is broken or you do not know about it, because you are usually — now these people — long dead. I would also like to touch Mrs Anja Bah, who spoke of the Roma, the Roma community. As you can see, at the beginning of my activities, I did not even mention discrimination in this chapter, and when she wondered who was or was not in the Roma areas, I must say that the Ombudsman is monitoring this area closely. Of course, there are problems and civil initiative in the New City, Mr. Carnivore, I have also met with him, I attend many celebrations organized by the Roma, which also reflect how they live, how their children live. Actually, we have a lot of problems here, too, why do these kids go to school, some in the southeast, just until Wednesday and not Friday, why don't they finish more than four or five classes of elementary school, why don't they get a job, why some might not even look for it, why they live in such miserable conditions, without water, electricity. A child born in a Roma community and a Roma family, including a 10-member family, is not guilty and how he would still like to be born Kate Middleton, but complains in the southeast of Slovenia and has nowhere to be washed or his parents. That's a really big problem, I'm counting on the state to do something about it. I am also just recently, and this will be the subject of a new report, meeting with many to find out; also with the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and we have a short meeting with representatives of the Municipality of Novo mesto and many others on the subject of how people in this area would not be opposed to the majority community, with their money, which you also mentioned, contributed a certain part in order for them to buy land honestly and pay the costs. Surely such a way of solving the problem would show that they are willing to do so — for those of course you mentioned and have the means. This already lives in the congregation of Trebnje, we are trying – this is the subject, because I say a new report, but since you asked me, it is right to tell you that in this area I am working very hard – to keep these steps in the direction that children are in kindergarten, to go to school, to get as close as possible to a life that will not be opposed to the community, to be aware of the rights and duties. And I think we're getting closer to some better times, of course, progress is difficult. As you can see, the northeast is really different, and we have heard about this from Mr Jurša, more advanced. Of course, there are also more Roma communities, each working and trying in its own way, some, including some educated Roma, whom I appeal to show that education is positive, that they have succeeded in life. I met a journalist, a police officer; in short, many who have made it in life live in a block, in an apartment, are exemplary, care for their children, go to school. So it seems to me that if everyone else takes care of it, and the country and the community, that we may – probably not, because we have only two more years of mandate, I am not pretending to be saved – but we will be able to say that it has started and we have actually listened to the neighbors, including the people. We all, after all, want some patience, some empathy, a life that will be nice and kind. Well, I know there may be something left unanswered, but Aha, it was, Mr Pikl asked about the repetition of the recommendations. [[…]] Unfortunately, we do repeat them because I don't want to forget those that aren't realized and I really count on the government to give a response report. In drafting legislation, I talked about, and when we talk about, the inspections, the expansion of services in the country, and the Ombudsman, as well as the deputy covering the area of inspections, thinks that the staff could be reassigned. But we need inspections that are strong, transparent, that work, and if it's human resources malnutrition, people think that even if you report it, the inspector won't come or won't come in in time. That is why I see a solution, perhaps not so much in enlargement, to which I remind the ministers, the IIP, the competent Minister of Public Administration, that the staff may also be redeployed. However, we were pleased, as we said, to change the housing inspection, because the government finally listened to us, we had quite a few fights earlier with the ministry, but now we have received a positive response: the housing inspection is competent, regardless of ownership, to detect irregularities. During this time that I am running out of time, I may not have been able to answer everything yet, but we are trying to attend all the meetings of the working bodies where you invite us, the committees. Sometimes we are in trouble because I have to tell you that we do more than 500 events a year with the Ombudsman, once again so many internal ones, 500 where external participation is needed, and 500 internal ones. This is a lot for a collective of 39 people, but experts working in narrow areas are only about 20 who specialize in specific areas. There are still support services here, but if there are 12,000 documents coming to the Ombudsman and we send them to the addresses and we listen to 9 thousand conversations, you can think that this is a very intense job. Because these are not success stories, these are not stories where people would praise us, these are stories that are difficult, sad and burdensome and sometimes one is enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. We have some time left, and if anyone else wants to discuss – as well as Madam Guardian, if you would like – please sign in. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Guardian, all present! Maybe just some response to clarifying Euthanasia's sub-chapter as a human right. I also listened to your explanation in the office that all people wanted a decent death. True, everyone wants a decent death, but I am convinced that euthanasia is not part of a worthy death, that as a worthy death, we should talk primarily about the palliative care of patients or dying, and also about the chances of helping people in their tribulations, in their pains. I cannot agree that euthanasia would be the only solution, because, finally, why do we have the first aid we help people with? If we were all, then we could just say, I don't know, we could also use euthanasia. [[…]] Thus to discuss euthanasia as well as human rights, it seems to me that it is inappropriate and that, once again, a dignified death may be possible for all or everyone for their own sake, but we must all strive that this dignified death is, in terms of care, from the point of view of approach, from the point of view of the integrated treatment of man, worthy of man and that euthanasia is not the solution to a dignified death or title. Thus, a respected guardian, I can say that we may be on two shores here, but there is a lot to be done in our country for this dignity, and certainly euthanasia is not that direction. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Amendments to the proposal [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] You didn't check in, I'm sorry. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided on Tuesday 25 October 2016 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Community of Students, ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of five Members and first-signed Mr Miho Kordis. The bill is in the 18th session, 28. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10th of the same year, considered the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Peter Wilfan, representative of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, others present! In the Desus Group, we advocate that all legislation be adopted in a way that ensures, to the greatest extent possible, a broader debate on content and, of course, on problems or levers leading to the need for something to be organised or arranged differently than has been regulated so far. Therefore, especially because the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which represents part of the public concerned, was not involved in the drafting of the bill, we did not support it in the Desus Group. Furthermore, despite the public presentation of the opinions on the bill, we were unable to conclude in our Group that the law could be supported in the proposed form, since the key open issues and dilemmas remained so. In Desus, however, we agree that it is imperative that this law be fully updated and upgraded so that the functioning of student organisations, i.e. all clubs and societies, is effectively, supervised, transparent and for the benefit of the entire student population. Finally, all possible shortcomings of the law, which reduces the democratic representation of stakeholders, should be highlighted. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has already approached the need for confrontational groups of students to start talking and listening, in the Desus Group we appeal to the Government or the Ministry to make all the necessary efforts in the process of drafting the new proposal to ensure that stakeholders reach a successful conclusion and that we will get a coordinated proposal for updating the Student Community Act as soon as possible in the parliamentary section.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. He's not here. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. If we listen to the officials of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and Members and members of the coalition led by the SMC, we can imagine that student organisation is an example of good governance, democratic action and transparent business. But if we listen to the student public and the media, of course we get a completely different image; we get the abuse of public funds, corrupt practices, non-transparentness, electoral machinations. It was this week that elections took place in the College of the University of Ljubljana Students' Organisation, where there was a reverberating harassment at the Faculty of Philosophy, as well as other irregularities, including the votes in some colleges, that students who were not enrolled at all. At the time of the public presentation of the opinions, however, we were able to see the news about Sebastian Kokl, the top of the University of Primorsk University Student Organisation, first in the role of President, and from 2007 until now in the role of Director, he has been making a number of years and now faces up to five years in prison and has received a good €170,000 student money, which he has adopted in the account of fictitious accounts and forgering other documentation at that time. In addition, another procedure is under way against the same Cochlea, in which the prosecution makes it clear that the Statute of the University of Primorska Student Organisation has been falsified. All these problems were solved by a bill that we tabled in the United Left at the initiative of the student public. The proposal set out the legal personality of the SOS because it is undoubtedly a person of public law because the SOS is financed from public funds, partly directly from the budget. The SOS and its organisational forms manage a significant amount of public funds, and they actually work with them as private funds, do not comply with the prescribed standards applicable to public funds. In the United Left, we have proposed that the SOS become a party under the Public Information Access Act, that the Public Procurement Act be applied mutatis mutandis and that the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act apply mutatis mutandis to business. Regular audits would also be checked by the Court of Auditors. The proposal was supported by the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Information Commissioner and the representatives of the Court of Auditors. In addition to the public presentation of opinions, a debate was held on the Council of the Government on student issues and the arguments could be heard on other occasions. Well, all of this did not convince the coalition that decided to continue to tolerate corruption and non-transparency in student organisation. And apparently she preferred to listen to former and current student officials as students' public and supervisory institutions. Nothing new for the coalition, which is headed by the most ethical and transparent party at any time that swears to the rule of law with its own life. I am, of course, cynical here, because instead of a transparent and democratic student organisation, we have only come to the conclusion that instead of our proposal, the Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the stakeholders, will prepare a new Law on the Community of Students. The words we have heard so many times in this mandate have come out of the battles little or no good. If the Ministry does not present its proposal for reform of the Student Community Act by the beginning of 2017, we will re- table a proposal in the United Left to lay down the basic framework for transparency and democracy of the SOS and in time restore part of the legitimately lost reputation of student organisation. Allow me to make a final comment. The key line of argument why SMC rejected this proposal of our law on the student community was that it went through public debate and that we cannot decide on young people without young people: Nothing about young people without young people – that was how the maximum was. But as much as I sign myself under such principles, in this particular case of student organisation Nothing about young people without young people really means anything about mafia without mafia. If we want to cut into the interests of privileged student officials who work with public student money like a pig with fur, it is very difficult to talk about it and coordinate with them, let alone give us a landing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u54	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! This proposal for amendments to the Student Community Act, which was tabled by the United Left for parliamentary consideration, sparked quite a heated public debate. In Novi Slovenije we listened with interest to the main protagonists of the debate, the Student Society of Iskra as an advocate of the law at one and the Student Organisations of Slovenia, with the SOS as an opponent of the law on the other hand. Both of us, Members, convinced us that we were right. The representatives of Istria expressed in particular the need to reform the student organisation in several areas, notably in order for the SOS to be a legal person of public law, to bring the student elections closer to the students and to become more open and democratic and to at least limit, if not eliminated, the strange practices of student money management. These include mainly purchases and sales of land, buildings and the like. On the other hand, the representatives of the SOS insisted that they were already debtors or auditors of the Court of Auditors and that they were handling all the pressing matters in the opposite direction. In Novi Slovenija we understand both sides, which were very committed to presenting their arguments for and against changes in the law. Unfortunately, they have failed and are also failing to find a common language to formulate a proposal that would be in line with everyone. As a result, in New Slovenia we will neither support nor oppose this law. Here we see the task of the competent ministry to take immediate care of the process in which all stakeholders are to be involved and would lead to the comprehensive modern regulation of the student community. This should be able to enable students to do their basic work as well as possible — to study qualitatively.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Law on the Community of Students was adopted in 1994 and has not been amended or amended since. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that due to the greater clarity of the legal status of the Student Organisation, transparency of operation and operation, the law must be rewinded and, in particular, because the Student Organisation of Slovenia is largely financed by public funds. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service also travels to a never-endingly defined person of public law. It is precisely this flawed definition of the legal person of the Student Organisation that constitutes the core of the dispute. Is the Student Organisation of Slovenia or is it not a legal person of public law? What are the criteria for this definition and whether public funding has any impact on this? We have read in the media in the past and also now have read that all student organisations are accompanied by corruption scandals, electoral frauds and indiscriminate use of funds. The Slovenian public has also been informed on numerous occasions of the offer of bribes to student officials and the conclusion of fictitious advisory contracts. We have also been able to see in the media that every year the Student Organisation obtains millions of euros of public funds to carry out legally defined activities and to pursue legitimately defined purposes and objectives, despite the fact that the regulation of the manner and conditions of availability of these funds and the proper control of business at legal level remains unregulated. As a result of the above-mentioned facts, the resolution of the legal problem is essential, so in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament we are committed to moving, in cooperation and agreement with all stakeholders, to the preparation of a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! The current Law on the Community of Students was adopted in 1994, with a view to regulating the situation and activities of the Self-Governmental Community of Students. The Student Organisation of Slovenia brings together students to deal with issues of common importance and the realization of common interests for the solidarity of the common needs and the management of matters from the national competent authority, which are given to the Student Organisation with public authority. It is precisely for the sake of maintaining the principle of autonomy that the internal organisation and functioning of the Student Organisation are detailed in its internal acts and regulations. The bill's proponents themselves argue that the essential issues of operation and organisation must be addressed in the basic acts of the Student Organisation and its organisational forms, but this does not, of course, mean that the student community is completely arbitrary and not subject to appropriate regulation in its operation. This was highlighted in the course of the consideration of the draft law in the National Assembly. We also stressed that the circumstances of the proposal, unfortunately, suggest a marked internal friction in the student organisation itself. Here I can agree with one of the statements made by the first-signed bill-maker, namely, quote: “If students really want a strong interlocutor of their own interests, they will eventually have to clean up their own house.” Nor can we say that the bill was prepared in a cooperative relationship with all students' representatives. Discussions and coordination between different groups of students took place only during the mediation of the department and this is the right way. Further reflection on the structure and installation of student organisation should be supported through a debate involving all key stakeholders. In the debates held so far in the National Assembly, twice at the meeting of the competent labour body and at the public presentation of opinions, we could all conclude that certain solutions proposed in the law or in the draft law are appropriate and necessary. However, certain shortcomings have also been identified and should be addressed and properly addressed in further processes. In this part, the proposed solutions will need to be considered more broadly, taking into account the number and variety of organisational forms of student organisation. At the same time, we stress that none of the different groups of student organisations can arbitrarily determine their status by themselves, disregarding the decision of some other bodies. In fact, we are surprised that the proposaler just before the proposed amendment at the last meeting of the parent working body, where we have considered this bill, has deviated from the fundamental requirement he has so actively stressed and advocated through the entire legislative process. This is the legal form of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and it is important to consider whether the interest after the adoption of this law may be hidden elsewhere. Due to the draft law tabled in the SMC Group of the Parliamentary Procedure, we have not supported the United Left, and we have therefore called on the Ministry responsible to approach the new proposal of the Student Community Act on the basis of the debates held so far and the public presentation of the opinions held here in the National Assembly. A coordinated solution must necessarily include a unequivocal commitment to access to public information, compliance with public procurement rules and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. However, we do not deviate from the fact that the drafting of the law should take place within the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues. This is the platform which deals with and gives opinions on materials relating to the identification and implementation of student policy and the treatment of laws and other regulations in this field. We also do not deviate from the fact that these changes and additions are formed with the general public. It is important that we all work together towards an open democratic, transparent student community. At the same time, I would like to call on students and students and other key stakeholders to give serious consideration to the necessary and necessary changes to the current higher education legislation, which creates an enabling and stable environment for both students and everyone else in higher education after years of silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We're done. Sorry. [[…]] Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Often in the National Assembly, we hear words that corruption must be suppressed in the Cali. I absolutely agree with this, but obviously we do not agree with what it means to suppress corruption in the Cali. Corruption in Cali is a fine example of what the Student Organisation of Slovenia is, and this has been the case for at least a certain amount of law proposed in the United Left, which we have also supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular with a view to ending these machinations that are taking place at the SOS. I'm sure you don't have to list them, that you all know them well. I think they are competing well with the current government about how money is dealt with, how it is not economically and untransparently treated. In addition to expressing our support for this law, we have also proposed our amendments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that all disputes concerning the elections should be resolved by the Administrative Court. I am sure that this story, mentioned earlier by colleague Kordish and witnessed to her that she has been spinning in the media for the last two days, is unlikely to get epilogues on various student courts. In such cases, as regards the dispute, the election, it would be necessary for the Administrative Court to have jurisdiction in the marriage. The second point that we have proposed is that the assets of student officials are public enough to report to the KPC on their assets, as do the officials of this country, municipalities and so on. The third point that we have proposed through the amendment, in the form of an amendment, is that payments to officials should be limited to the 54th salary class. Already on the committee I presented some graphs of how the Student Organisation of Slovenia has its own resources. In addition to the regular pear service they have had, in recent years, an average of EUR 30 000 per year has been allocated to the external operator carrying out their pyaritic activities. Now that the measure will be full, we have received further information that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is just before the elections, in case anything happens and that those friends of the current student officials are somehow paid for all the effort, for all the help that they can continue to be sucked into this student organisation, one of the students, or let's say to this lady, who is close to this current student suit, for a thousand 900 euro net a month, has been hired for pierar through the contract. In addition to the regular market, in addition to some 30,000 Euros of advisory contracts per year, there are another thousand 900 Euros of net worth to Mrs Nina Finzhgar. Miha Kordish is a member with the lowest salary; he has the basis of EUR 2055 net. This is said to be only EUR 150 less than one lady who is attached by contract to this Decision of the Student Organisation of Slovenia for a thousand 900 euros net a month. Such a non-transparent way of spending student money, ladies and gentlemen, you support by deciding that this law is not suitable for further consideration. And here we are again witnessing the mode of operation of this coalition: with every bill that comes, proposed by the opposition, you reject once, twice, three times, and then you just fold. This was the case with social security benefits, it was necessary to submit twice, three times, that you settled the matter, so with the Forest Act on transporters, when we had to invest the third time we had to, and now you finally moved to have your own proposal, so it was, say, a dual school system when we had to invest three times, and now you have your own proposal. I hope that this law will not have to be tabled three times, which you have now rejected, so that this situation will also improve. However, this law is only a beginning, and much needs to be done to eradicate the corruption that we are witnessing in the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We're moving to seven. At the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Defence Act, in the context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Miho Kordis. With regard to this bill, the Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Jan Mahnic, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 12th meeting, on 4 October, the Defence Committee considered the draft Law on Complements of the Defence Act submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Miho Kordiš. Representatives of the proposed law, the Ministry of Defence, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Commission of the State Council for State Regulations and the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the proponent, Miha Kordiš, pointed out that in the United Left, with the amendment of the Defence Act, they proposed a supplement whereby the Government should obtain the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia prior to sending the Slovenian Army abroad. This is suggested for two reasons. The first reason is that the Slovenian Army participates or will participate in increasingly questionable military operations, and they point in particular to the Government's decisions to send Slovenian Armed Forces units to Latvia to the borders of the Russian Federation. The second reason is that these decisions are taken without public debate. For example, the Slovenian public was informed only a few days ago about the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to Latvia from the NATO liaison meeting before the issue was addressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This, in the view of the applicants, suggests that decisions are in fact taken by the NATO liaison structures and only formally confirmed and implemented by the Ministry and the Government. Representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Defence mag. Miloš Bizjak explained that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendments to the Defence Act because it considers that the current regime is appropriate and enables the effective implementation of international obligations and cooperation undertaken by the State through the signing of international treaties. The Government considers that the current legal regime limits the powers of the Government and the National Assembly to decide on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of obligations undertaken in international organisations or with international treaties, and in particular on the instructions of the Slovenian Armed Forces in international operations and missions. The fact is that all decisions on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into an international organisation, namely the UN, the EU, NATO and others, have been taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also ratified the key international treaties of these organisations. The decision on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of the obligations undertaken in these organisations or with these international treaties is therefore merely a realisation by the Republic of Slovenia of the commitments made. The decision of the Government is therefore only a result of the transitional decisions of the National Assembly on Slovenia's entry into various international organisations or on the conclusion of individual international treaties in the defence field. The discussion also expressed the view that such a change was not necessary, the current so-called two-stage procedure, as set out in the strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions, adequately defines the referral procedure, prior to the appointment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the intention of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy. The Committee member further suggested that the Committee should, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law would not be suitable for further consideration. With 11 votes in favour and 1 against, the Committee adopted the following decision: Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Defence, second reading, is not appropriate for further consideration. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me only to explain the manipulation that my colleague, Luka Mesec, has afforded to the College of the President of the National Assembly, when he said that I did not allow the debate on the proposal of the United Left. My explanation is as follows. Mr Kordiš presented on behalf of the applicants his position and position of the United Left Group. However, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, a member of the ruling coalition, proposed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Article enabling him to do so, procedurally, that the Defence Committee should decide that the draft Law on Complements of the Defence Act is not suitable for further consideration. I put this procedural proposal to the vote, before that, allowing a debate on this procedural proposal, where Members could also discuss what they thought, not only about this procedural proposal, but also about the Defence Act. After this proposal was put to the vote, a decision was taken with 11 votes in favour and one against the fact that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. I strongly reject the insinuation of my colleague Luke Mesca, who has taken advantage of them at the College of the President of the National Assembly, and I advise him to finally read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly after two years to see what procedures we have in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Micha Kordiš, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Indeed, this proposal has caused much more trouble for the ruling coalitions than for the chairman of the committee, but this degenerated liberalism is yet to come. The proposal of the United Left to decide on the operations of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad by the National Assembly is being considered today, here at this meeting. This proposal would introduce a higher democratic standard, which, by the way, is common practice in 17 European countries. At the same time, we would be given the opportunity to prevent disputed decisions by the Government, such as the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Latvia. Given the current composition of Parliament, such a decision is unlikely, but the duality of some parties who speak one and work another would certainly be spoiled through this. In this regard, I would like to recall the statement made by Minister Jew, who in July for the evening said that “the sending of Nat's units to the borders of the Russian Federation is counterproductive”, while the SD ministers on 30 June supported a preliminary decision by the Government on the referral of the Slovenian Army. It is right that citizens see the gap between what politicians promise and say and what they are actually doing. While the debate on the Committee was very brief, it was also extremely significant in this short term. It revealed the degradation of Slovenian liberalism or, if you like, the Modern Cent, which has taken place in the last five years. As early as 2011, the LDS, Real and SD Group itself proposed a very similar novelty and six members of the then coalition voted in favour of the committee. Well, two weeks ago, their successors, SMC and SD, refused to allow even a debate on our proposal. The only one who spoke of these types at all was colleague Dolinšek, who had proposed a decision to suspend the procedure before the start of the discussion. In short, with ugly tricks, the coalition torpedoed the United Left proposal, including a public debate on a more democratic way of sending members of the Slovenian Army abroad. In 2011, the liberals supported the solution, as we presented it in the United Left, and in 2016 they do not even hope to discuss it anymore. Of course, other signs of the degradation of the Modern Centre are far more fatal. The Centre's government has fenced the country with a barbed wire, the Centre's government is sharpening asylum legislation, the Centre's government is privatising and so on. Since we are in Parliament, I would like to recall the statement made last July by Prime Minister Cerar, who said: “In one year we raised the level of political culture.” End of quote. If blocking the debate on proposals that apply to democratic standards in neighbouring countries and have been supported by liberal predecessors years ago, raising political culture, then I would certainly like to congratulate members of the coalition for this rise in political culture. But the truth here must be said that there is a small but important difference between our proposal and the 2011 proposal. The Socialists are proposing that consensus should also be required for the functioning of the Slovenian Army in NATO. Before anyone jumps into the air, let me say that Article 11 of the North Atlantic Treaty leaves it up to the Member States to determine for themselves how to discharge their obligations. This was explained nicely by Dr. Brglez for Work in July, and I quote: “In Nate you always have the right to say no or to be exempt.” End of quote. But, of course, that's some right you need to use it for, and our political class keeps looking for excuses that you wouldn't benefit from it. Let me get this. The United Left and an increasing number of citizens oppose Slovenia's membership in the NATO Pact. Many more citizens oppose NATO's and its members' policies, which have led to civil wars in Eastern Europe and humanitarian catastrophes in the Arab world. These citizens, with the exception of the socialists, are not represented by any party, and we are constantly blocked in this representation. Even this treatment is happening to us on Friday afternoon. Once again, if this is a rise in political culture, then I can only congratulate Members of the ruling coalition once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Milos Biszak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u66	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendments to Articles 82 and 84 of the Defence Act, which I will try to explain briefly below. The current legal regime limits the powers of the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of obligations undertaken in international operations, in international organisations or in international treaties, and in particular on the referrals of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international operations. The fact is that all decisions on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into an international organisation, including the UN, the EU or NATO, have been taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also ratified the key international treaties of these organisations. The decision on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of the obligations undertaken in these organisations or with these international treaties is therefore merely a realisation by Slovenia of the commitments made. The decisions of the Government are therefore only a result of previous decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the entry into individual international organisations or on the conclusion of individual international treaties in the field of defence. If, in the initial years of the Slovenian Armed Forces' cooperation in the implementation of obligations undertaken in international organisations or with international treaties, the Government has generally merely informed the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of its specific assignments, these procedures have been gradually implemented and upgraded in terms of the greater role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular after the entry of Slovenia into NATO and the intensification of the activities of the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad. In 2010, the Government adopted the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions. The strategy has adopted a comprehensive approach in deciding on participation in international operations and missions, in international civilian missions or in international rescue operations, which are regulated by the Defence Act, in the Law on secondment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations, in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, as well as in the rules governing the work and tasks of the police. In accordance with this strategy, the decision-making procedure for cooperation in the case of military operations or civilian missions with enforceable powers or in the case of extraordinary international events shall be carried out in a two-phase manner. In these cases, the cooperation initiative must be properly designed as an intention to be referred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia before the final decision. The Government shall then make a final decision taking into account national interests, international obligations and, of course, discussions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The strategy also increases the supervisory role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as the Government must, in accordance with point 49 of this strategy, at least once a year inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia about the course of ongoing international operations and missions, as well as the implementation of the strategy itself. In accordance with that strategy, there are also actual procedures for deciding on the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of obligations undertaken in international organisations or international treaties, and in particular on the instructions of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international operations and missions. After 2009 and 2010, virtually no decisions of the Government on these issues were taken without cooperation and prior discussion in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the National Assembly of Slovenia is closely involved in the current decision-making processes, in particular through a discussion and consultation role. In view of all the above, the additions to Articles 82 and 84 of the Defence Act, as assessed by the Government, would not contribute to the improvement of the situation in the area concerned, could even constitute a step backwards in terms of faster response, flexibility and effectiveness of the State in making such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Act on Supplements to the Law on Defence on the Parent's Work Body did not receive the required support. Moreover, the Committee on Defence decided that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Defence was not suitable for further consideration. Today, in fact, we only represent the position why the Social Democrats supported this decision, which complements the two articles, paragraphs 82 and 84. These two articles lay down the powers of the National Assembly and the Government in the field of defence. We do not support the social democrats of this proposal. At the Ministry of Defence, they are preparing a hard-to-see new Defence Act and this is a key reason why we have decided to do so. It is also because the representatives of the competent ministry indicated that a two-phase procedure for taking note of the National Assembly and the decision of the Government should also be laid down in this new Systemic Defence Act. This provision is now contained in the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions. Once again, I will point out that the Social Democrats on the Committee have been informed that similar solutions have been proposed in 2006 and 2010 with the signatures of members of the Social Democrats' Group and that the 2011 law, with a similar solution, has been aligned with then Minister of Defence Ljubica Jelusic. We hope the Social Democrats will only succeed in preparing a new proposal for the Defence Act and a new proposal for the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. This is an important law, especially the Defence Act, because two-thirds of the votes of Members present are necessary if this law is to be adopted. As all parliamentary groups see this law as so important, we are confident that there will have to be a broader consensus and greater support, as enshrined in Article 124 of the Constitution. In the objectives of this amendment, the proposers stated that it is a matter of ensuring transparency and democratic decision on the deployment of Slovenian Armed Forces units to military operations abroad or their integration into the multinational NATO units and activities. Transparency and democracy shall be ensured by ensuring that the Government has to obtain prior agreement from the National Assembly for such decisions. The exceptions are only cooperation in military exercises and non-military cooperation between military units, as well as representatives of troops other than international missions, or the execution of the preparation and tasks of joint defence within the framework of NATO. Dear applicants, the Social Democrats believe that participation in the review of reports on the implementation of the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions and one such cooperation with representatives of the three ministries – external, defence and internal – was considered at the 11th session of the Defence Committee on 13 September 2016. Members and members present discussed the report on cooperation in international operations and missions in 2015 and plans for future cooperation. However, we can agree with the proposaler that the consideration and discussion of the reports back in such important matters is not sufficient, but we believe that it is necessary. Once again, I would like to point out that we expect the Ministry of Defence to prepare a new Defence Act as soon as possible and as soon as possible, to comply with the important stakeholders in the profession, to send it to the National Assembly as soon as possible, so that we can also find solutions at the political level, which will also be more widely acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Our defence policy solutions are, of course, more widely accepted, but are more widely acceptable to Slovenian citizens and citizens, but of course they are not acceptable to the political class. When a part of this political class speaks one, does the other, and then when you call this bluff and show it, of course you can hear a position like that of SD in front of me. In the United Left, this law is clearly still supported and not only do we oppose NATO membership and politics; NATO policy also opposes more and more of our citizens, as I have already mentioned, and these citizens, with the exception of the United Left, do not have parliamentary representation. It is interesting that the Government has always stressed how the National Assembly is aware of the intentions of military operations and that, in principle, even the plenary debate is possible. In practice, however, the parties that have drawn up this government block even the debate on amending the law on the committee. So the government's reform of the roof law is no substitute for our novel, because it actually retains the exclusive competence of the government, but at the same time we see how a very easy coalition torpedoes committee discussions. The Government's position is that the National Assembly should not decide on the instructions of the Slovenian Armed Forces, because it has ratified Slovenia's entry into the UN, NATO and the European Union in one way or another. The deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces to missions should be only the enforcement of this decision or the commitments made. I'm sorry, but it's just not true that I'm not saying it's a lie. By ratifying the North Atlantic Pact, Slovenia has not signed a blank note to participate in all its operations. And I will quote Dr. Brglez once again: "In Nate you always have the right to say no or to be exempt." There is a difference between opposition to NATO membership and opposition to NATO's specific policy. If the majority of the participants in the referendum supported NATO entry in 2003, this does not mean that citizens today support NATO and the United States. On the contrary! Opinion polls show that Slovenians are among the biggest opponents of United States policy in Europe. And for this thing, I'm very proud of our fellow citizens, and I'm going to be very honest with you. However, since the referendum on the admission to NATO is always underlining, I would like to remind you that this voted for NATO in 2003 was less than 40% of all electoral beneficiaries, and this was also due to two factors. At the same time, a referendum was held on the European Union and citizens were under pressure from extreme propaganda. For the first time in history, the RCC and the Union of Fighters were agitating for the same thing. I am sure that we would not have achieved such a result when the referendum resumed. People just realized that being a member of Nat didn't mean what the political class promised. In 2003, people were afraid that neutrality meant isolation. That's absurd, of course. In addition to Europe, the internationally influential countries of Switzerland, Sweden, Austria or Finland are also dominated. In 2003, people were afraid that Slovenia would be threatened outside NATO. But today, with the exception of Austria, Slovenia is surrounded by NATO members themselves, with leading members of the Union then the main factor of instability in the world. In 2003, this may not have been so obvious, but after Iraq 2004, in Libya 2011, and after Slovenia had crossed half a million refugees who were victims of Anglo-American geopolitics, people could no longer be dragged. The political class here has completely lost touch with reality. Citizens well know that we are not threatened by Russia or by refugees, we are threatened by the deep crisis of the system and by the apparent solutions. The behaviour of the Slovenian Armed Forces in Latvia and the fulfilment of commitments to the NATO Pact have nothing to do with the defence of the country and with the credibility of Slovenia. It's just a bloody expensive pear move for gun manufacturers and brokers living off the commission of this sold weapon. It's just an excuse to pay the bureaucrats, headed by Ambassador Kacin, who are sitting in Nate's organs. Each of them costs us twice as much as the Prime Minister. I think that is also understood by many in the coalition and in the big media, so every serious debate is so consistently blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u72	Your Honor! In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, we will not support the amendment of the Defence Act proposed by the United Left. We do not believe that such a change is necessary. Applicants want to amend the existing Defence Act by deciding on all instructions from Slovenian Armed Forces units outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and on the integration of Slovenian Armed Forces units into NATO and EU multinational units, except for military exercises and military diplomatic contacts. While the current practice and decision-making process for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in peacekeeping operations and missions is further specified in the 2010 Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions, which provides in point 39 that, in cases of military operations or civilian missions with executive powers or in case of extraordinary international events, the Government shall, with the intention of participating, inform the National Assembly at point 40.p, take a final decision by the Government. We believe that the practice so far is when the Government is informed of the intention of the National Assembly and then takes responsibility and makes a decision, good and effective. The current so-called two-step procedure set out in the strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions, in our opinion, adequately defines the referral procedure, with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia informing the National Assembly of this purpose just prior to the referral. This already includes the National Assembly in the decision-making process. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be responsible for the posting, which shall apply to all obligations and consequences resulting from such a decision. We will not support the Christian Democrats for the above-mentioned reasons of the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga will present the position of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State! Allow me to present the position of the SMC Group. Colleagues from the United Left presented to the National Assembly this July a proposal to supplement the Defence Act concerning the procedure for sending members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international operations and missions. The drafter himself mentioned in the draft law that he cited the other laws of 2006 and 2010, by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tried to impose an obligation to obtain prior consent from the National Assembly to send members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international operations and missions. Both proposals were rejected by the National Assembly, although the Defence Act has not yet entered into force the obligation to obtain prior consent from the National Assembly, and it should be said that the National Assembly has been actively involved in the decision-making process on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenian soldiers on missions abroad since 2009. The area and procedure for the deployment of Slovenian soldiers abroad remains fully regulated in the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions, specifically paragraph 39 of the Strategy provides that, in the case of military operations or civilian missions with executive powers or in the event of extraordinary international events, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall inform the National Assembly of its intention to cooperate. What does that mean in practice? That the procedure for sending members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to missions abroad is two-step. Before any decision taken by the Government on participation in a new international mission or operation with substantial changes in the scope or purpose of an individual mission or its termination, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in its intention, inform the National Assembly which shall hold a discussion within the competent working bodies and decide on it. We have already held quite a few such discussions in the current Assembly reference, and, as has been the case, we have supported the Government's intention every single time. At this point, there is no need to amend the Defence Act, at least in this direction. The solution provided by the Republic of Slovenia's strategy for the participation of international operations and missions, which is a valid and also an ongoing practice, ensures the operational fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia with the appropriate information and involvement of the National Assembly. That's what you have to say. An additional safeguard for transparency in the process of relations with the National Assembly and the general public is an obligation under the same strategy to inform the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation on ongoing international operations and missions at least once a year. At the same time, it should be pointed out that there is also a new law on defence in preparation. The draft law clearly shows the intention of the current government that the implementation of the two-step procedure of the strategy will remain and also become a legal obligation. For all the reasons that have been given, we support the decision of the Defence Committee in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the draft Law on the Complementation of the Defence Act, as tabled by the Group of Members of the United Left, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, in 2003, 66% of citizens and citizens decided that we wanted to be members of NATO. These 66% of citizens represent the number of about 700 000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I do not know when a political party or even a coalition has received such support in the total of all the votes of the parliamentary groups. And I really don't understand why it's always necessary to pour manure on one side and the same about the NATO connection, instead of being proud to be members of the strongest military alliance in the history of mankind. For those of you who don't know, then the relationship didn't destabilize Libya or Syria or Iraq. Following the 2001 attack on the United States of America, for the first time in the history of this organization, Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty was activated, and NATO mediated in Afghanistan. After 15 years, the situation in Afghanistan is such that Al-Qaida has defeated itself that there will still be a great deal of need in these Peacebuilding Operations, according to the establishment of a constitutional order in this country. And here's the connection to NATO's problem. The military can build a school, but the military can't build an educational process. The military can build a hospital, but the military can't build a health system. Then he played his part. At present, NATO in Afghanistan is primarily concerned about preventing the appearance of the last months, when some of the defeated Taliban want to join the Islamic State. And right now, the main operation is there to plague the possible arrival and also the outbreak of Daesh in Afghanistan. The NATO Union follows the democratic and free standards of the Western Council. Everything he does is based on international treaties. By ratifying the NATO accession treaty, we have therefore made one of the most important decisions in our history, following the will of citizens and citizens. It is pointless now to say that citizens support membership in the organisation but do not support the policy that this organisation would make sense if the policy were different. But some in this country see our country under the auspices of the mother of Russia. I don't see her under this wing. We belong in Central Europe. But we need to connect with those countries with which we share common democratic Western values. It must be made clear that we have nothing against Russia and the Russian people, but we cannot agree on the way in which foreign and security policies are being implemented that are currently being implemented by Vladimir Putin. It accuses NATO of destabilizing the countries, even though I said where it was before, by the way, if the true individual State that is a member of NATO has nothing to do with NATO, even the coalition currently against Daesh is under the auspices of the United States and 50 other countries, and NATO has nothing here. When we discussed NATO's role three weeks ago in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, especially here in this Middle East, it was said that the land intervention of the sky. But it can be intervention in terms of attacks from the sea, attacks from drones and, above all, training forces fighting against Daesh. Then he won't send land here. And on the one hand, to read it, and on the other hand you don't see what Putin does in Transnistria, Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Crimea, East Ukraine, it's hypocritical, it's disrespectful of all the values we share with Slovenia and Slovenia and why we also joined NATO. That is why we will also support in the SDS the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The substance of the proposed novel is the supplement by which the Government should obtain the consent of the National Assembly before sending the Slovenian Armed Forces abroad every time. This would, in the opinion of the proposers, ensure a greater degree of democraticism and transparency of such procedures. Let me begin by saying that in the Desus Group we believe that the current regime is appropriate. I would like to point out that, by participating in international operations and missions, our country is following its national interests, while at the same time meeting the obligations arising from the membership of the United Nations Organisations in the European Union and NATO, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe. In addressing this issue, it should be noted that the decision on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into these international organisations has been taken by the National Assembly. The key international treaties of these organisations have also been ratified here. Let me also remind you of the referendum on the accession of Slovenia to NATO in the spring of 2003. The decision-making process was attended by a good 60% of the electoral beneficiaries or 60,43%, some of which was more than 66% for connection. This has shown that we want to take care of our security while contributing our share to ensuring collective security. Thus, we have also assumed the obligations of our army to participate in international missions. Almost seven years ago, the Strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions was adopted. This act introduced a two-phase procedure so that the initiative for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in military operations or civilian missions with enforcement powers is first sent to the Council of State and then the Government takes a final decision when considering other circumstances. The strategy also provides that the National Assembly should be informed once a year of its participation in ongoing international operations and missions, as well as of the implementation of the strategy itself. In the Desus Group, we believe that the role of the National Assembly is not small, as is indicated by the fact that so far no government has taken a decision that is inconsistent with the opinion of the National Assembly. In Desus, we are aware that we have seen rapid changes in the security environment in particular recently, and that is why international missions are becoming increasingly difficult, but in our Group we are convinced that the proposed novel does not bring about an improvement in the situation in this area. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the decision-making process is properly regulated, but we are pleased that the Ministry is already preparing a new system-wide defence law, which will also take over the two-phase procedure that is now set out in the already mentioned strategy. As indicated above, we will support the decision of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Tuesday, 25 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE GOVERNMENTAL LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Tomaž Lisc. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Your Honor! By shutting down the transport companies in the SDS Group, we want to relieve the Slovenian farmer and allow him to deal with it instead of overly strong cuts administration. Why did we choose this marriage? The first is the problem of the Lubadar, which is very present in Slovenian forests in these months. Instead of being a 1. 1. If we do not stop these carriers, the Slovenian farmer would be looking for a carrier from point A to point B, and if he does not have one, he would also pay a high penalty. The second moment in which we decided on this amendment of the law is that the country established the Slovenian State Company of the Slovenian National Forests this year, which is not necessary for carriers. In our view, this is about discrimination against small farmers. Let's just remember a little bit. The carriers were introduced into the Slovenian legal order with the new Forest Act in autumn 2013. At that time, the government of Alenka Bratušek was the minister of the present and present magi. Dejan Židan and the law were supported by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, SD and Desus. At the end of 2013, in the SDS Group, we proposed the abolition of this stupid law, which imposes too much administration on farmers. The coalition was against it. Then we proposed a moratorium, because we all know that in early 2013 a large part of Slovenia hurt its pharynx. There was a compromise hybrid law that introduced the moratorium until 1. 1. 2017. And I hope that when the law is passed, we will finally have one less administrative obstacle in the area of agriculture and forestry. Let us tell the Slovenian public a little bit about what was then given to the Slovenian farmer in the backpack. I quote: “The transport vehicle is a transport document which must be accompanied by each load of wood carried directly from the forest to the final buyer, temporary storage or to the place where it is used for its own consumption regardless of the means and form of transport. The carrier must keep the carrier at his disposal at all times and show it in the event of police, customs and forestry inspectors controlling it. The transporter is received by the owner of the forest by the Institute of Forests. On the basis of one licence, several carriers may be issued. The owner of the forest shall deliver the carrier to the carrier when the timber is taken over. It shall record information on the supplier, buyer, type and quantity of wood, date, purpose and time of transport. After the transport, hand it over to the buyer of the wood. The buyer must send this copy to the owner of the forest within 10 days of the transport, and the forest owner must keep it for at least five years from the date of receipt, and must also be kept for five years by the first buyer of the wood. Carriers shall also be used for the transport of timber of wood of forest species that has been cut out of the forest but are not necessary in the case of branches and pitchers and wood in the case of up to 10 centimeters.” In short, forest inspectors, customs officers, and police officers walked the subway and watched to see if any wood on the cargo had a diameter of less than 10 centimeters or more. And that's why they've been threatened with quite a lot of punishment for the average Slovenian farmer. The penalties for offences in the case of carriers are very high, ranging from EUR 5,000 to EUR 50,000 for legal persons, from EUR 500 to EUR 3 000 for those responsible and EUR 300 to 2 000 for natural persons. In addition to the fine, the entire cargo of wood is seized and the perpetrator of the offence must also pay all the costs incurred by the seized timber until its sale. Even more, we got a special regulation on form, content in this way to keep the carrier for the transport of forest-forest sentiments. Since we have a new Slovenian state company and because we have an cyclist, we want to be with 1. 1. 2017 Slovenian farmer and forester no longer deal with the carrier, because we believe that we are following the objective of European traceability policy by having a charter on consumption and transport with forest, wood varieties, which was a document before and would remain a document after the adoption of this law. And, of course, we're asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags. Mr Marjan Podgoršk, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u82	Dear President, honourable Members, well-welcome others! The bill-maker, a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, submitted a proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests at the end of September. We have before us a general debate on the proposed law. The proposal to amend the Law on Forests deals with the provisions relating to the regulation of forest and forest varieties. As of 1 January 2017, the applicants want the system of carriers to be abolished and, as explained in the paper to amend the law, they therefore ensure that the removal of damaged and damaged trees will be faster and less complicated to ensure the transport of forest roads and to prevent the spread of forest tree diseases and pests, and to remove the trees and the remains of damaged trees, watercourses. We recognize the good intentions of the applicants in the drafting of the law. The proposed law seeks to reduce administrative obstacles, but the law in this part is not consistent and does not include all necessary changes. In order to fully eliminate the system of carriers, the provisions of the law relating to the exercise of control and the conduct of infringement proceedings in respect of carriers should be deleted. It is also necessary to delete or amend the provisions on foreign sanctions or the withdrawal of forest-forest varieties in the event of a violation of the provisions of the law. The proposed amendments, defined by the proposed Law on the Amendments to the Law on Forests prepared by the Group of Members, are essentially aimed at simplifying procedures and well-meaning in order to ensure a more effective rehabilitation of damaged forests, but we must be aware that the rehabilitation of forests damaged in the stomach in 2014 and the rehabilitation of forests affected by the overcrowding of grasslands are already in progress and that, on the basis of past experience and current developments in forests, there are still some other amendments to the law that will indeed allow for greater efficiency in the current rehabilitation as well as in future similar captures in Slovenian forests. In view of the link with the Cadastrian Income Law, it is also necessary to supplement the Forest Act with the definition of the so-called growth coefficient as one of the key elements for determining the height of the cadastral income from forests. Only by supplementing the law will we be able to ensure transparency in determining the growth coefficient and, in particular, to allow forest owners to require further verification of the adequacy of the coefficient for their possession. In view of the need to include these supplements, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Forest Act, which includes all necessary solutions. The proposal for amendments to the Forest Act has already been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. Because of all the amendments to the Law on Forests proposed by the Group of Members, we cannot support and propose to you, honourable Members and Members, that you do not support the proposal of the Law and thus allow for the consideration as soon as possible of the new proposal of the Law on Forest Amendments and Supplements, which fully addresses several different aspects of forest management that we really need to regulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. In February 2014, more than 50% of Slovenian forests were affected. As early as March that year, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Forest Act, which, for one year, abolished the compulsory use of transport vehicles in the transport of forest-forest ranges in order to allow for the earliest possible remediation of damage. Since this was very large and was very slow, the National Assembly adopted a new amendment to the law last March, extending the moratorium on compulsory use of the bond until the end of this year. Then, in 2015, we witnessed record replication of sub-martials as a late consequence of the phalanges and unscanned damage in the forests. Even though the multiplication was expected, all of us were surprised by the magnitude of this multiplication when the situation deteriorated this year. For the second year in a row, warm and dry weather has made it possible to develop their backwaters enormously, and a similar situation is expected to last for several years. According to the Institute for Forests, by the end of July of this year almost 900 000 cubic metres of Iglavs had been recorded for slicing due to attack by the underpasses, most of which in the area of the forest economy Ljubljana, Postojna and Bled, the realisation of the sanitary cutting of the trees, which was attributed to the attack of the suburbs, was only 53% at that time. The aim of the amendment to the law, which we are considering today, is that, after a moratorium on mandatory use of carriers has been adopted, they will be completely abolished and the instruments of use and transport with forest forest varieties will be preserved. In the United Left, we do not believe that this would in itself make a significant contribution to halting the attack on the underlings and speeding up the repair of damage in the forests. The main obstacle to rehabilitation has been the poor response of some private owners and poor concern for their forests. As private property is concerned, the enforcement procedure that the State must implement before any action can be taken in these forests is very long. The turtles, however, multiply much faster than the official mill. Therefore, at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the United Levi, we have also proposed to the Ministry that it find some way, on behalf of the faster rehabilitation, to bypass the sacred cow of the private property institution and thereby allow faster repair of damage in the forests and limit the further reproduction of duplicates. I am pleased that the Ministry has already prepared such a amendment to the law. In the United Left we supported an extended moratorium on the use of carriers last year. Indeed, such a moratorium for the time to eliminate greater damage in forests can be an incentive to harvest wood. However, within two years of the adoption of this moratorium, we have seen that the extent of damage in our forests has increased. In addition, the introduction of carriers, although presenting an administrative burden both for owners and for the Forestry Office, contributed to a certain extent to the smaller extent of the theft of timber from forests. The wood market must be regulated, this is one of the conditions for economic management of forests. Since the Ministry has already prepared a more appropriate proposal for a new Forest Act, which also regulates the most problematic part of the rehabilitation in addition to carriers, this is a procedure for administrative enforcement by another person, in the United Left we believe that the solution of the Ministry is more appropriate, so the new law that we are considering today will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u86	Dear vice president, ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Forest Act, which we are considering, is good and will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia. It offers solutions for which we are constantly taking our stand. Let me remind you that when we consider the government novel, which introduced the new bureaucratic obstacles, we have alerted the bill's proponents to the inadmissibility of introducing a transport document, so-called carriers, which should accompany the transport of forest wood varieties. The carrier should be kept for five years in view of the possibility of later verification of the placing on the EU market of legally cut wood varieties. Due to the new burden on forest owners, especially farmers subject to this regime under the additional bureaucratic procedure, the Christian Democrats then proposed, with the amendment, that the carrier be introduced in the first phase only for forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We followed this audit report on the management of the forests of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which concluded for 2009 that there is a risk that not all forest-forest ranges obtained from forests managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia are recorded. Farmers and other forest owners have been turning to us for all the years under this law and report that red tape has increased, that the Institute of Forests has not had the appropriate instructions for the issue of carriers at the time of introduction, and that there is actually no added value from carriers. In the meantime, the carrier temporarily interrupted the phalange at the beginning of 2014, but Minister Židan undoubtedly intends to reintroduce this administrative obstacle soon. Christian Democrats still argue that the problem is not with smaller private forest owners, up to 15 hectares. Irregularities, an undetected section occurs mainly in forests in the own Republic of Slovenia. While farmers are also at risk of higher cadastral income and a new attempt to impose property tax – it is obviously an honest Slovenian farmer again, as it was over 60 years old, the state enemy number one. The current government consistently enforces regulations that show distrust of the Slovenian countryside and impose a major burden on Slovenian agriculture. Colleagues from the SDS with a novelty suggest the abolition of all timber carriers. Members of New Slovenia will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u88	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State with a team, a nice greeting to Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! When we are discussing economic issues in Parliament, I think that the halls are more empty, perhaps here the reflection of the state of the spirit in this Parliament towards the attitude towards such important industries or, after all, to the forests that are our greatest wealth. However, allow me to present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The Democratic Party of Slovenia, the SDS, has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new Forest Act proposing the abolition of carriers. They are convinced that the abolition of carriers does not mean the loss of traceability from forest to final use and that this would not violate the European acquis and also propose the abolition of carriers from 1 January 2017. According to traceability, however, they are convinced that there are quite a few documents they provide. One is the instrument of use and transport with forest-forest ranges, and the other is the decision of the Institute of Forests, which everyone who wants to cut wood in their forest must have. In the SMC, we would like to point out that even this year, three years after the introduction of carriers and three adopted amendments to the Forest Act, which dealt with this issue in 2013, 2014 and 2015 for the fourth time, we are facing this matter for the fourth time, today with a proposal for a law proposed by SDS Members, and in a short time with the latest novelty, which is the fifth time we will be addressing this issue. We are therefore convinced in the parliamentary group that the time has come for us to conclude this saga or episode of repetitions of the same debates in the National Assembly. It's time to come up with a system solution that will fix it. As you know, in this mandate in 2015 we simply extended the moratorium to carriers and some have already pointed out that the deadline for a moratorium on carriers is unrealistic. What has all proved to be so far? In the present form, carriers have even lost all legitimacy due to three years of contention and attempts to change and constitutionality requirements. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we agree that we need the right tool to combat the grey economy and forestry. However, we estimate that this case has gone a little too far and that there have been too many administrations in this area. Inadequate traceability rules have been laid down for all, including small farmers, and also appears to be too high there. It is therefore necessary to examine the amount of fines which must nevertheless have some disstimulating effect. On the other hand, the transport of forest-forest ranges intended for own use by forest owners should also be arranged in an acceptable way. I would like to point out that the amendments proposed – simply deleting the articles relating to carriers – do not offer other appropriate solutions for a systemic solution to this area. This is an area relating to the control of the placing of forest-forest varieties on the EU market, which must be properly regulated. The European Regulation, which discusses the prevention of black and gray economies in forests and refers to the necessity of registering, is in force in order to ensure that Slovenia is not at fault without appropriate transposition into the Slovenian legal order. As early as 2014, when the carrier was introduced after almost three years of delay in the Law on Forests, Slovenia was in violation and threatened to punish it. Therefore, of course, we cannot support the proposed solution of the applicant because it offers only partial or flat-rate termination of the carriers, but does not offer some systemic solutions in this area. In doing so, we would like to point out that the Government has already set out the text of the forest law, which, of course, has taken a step in the direction of some systemicity and that we would also like to find some additional, even more systemic solutions to this area here in some way. This, of course, also means more effective implementation of measures against lugadars and other pests or diseases in the forest tree. This law will, of course, also enable arrangements to ensure traceability of forest varieties instead of the carrier which has been abolished. Instead, the transport of forest-forest ranges will be accompanied by a bookkeeping charter such as a delivery service. It is also provided that the bookkeeping document is not required for forest-forest varieties obtained from forests owned by natural persons loaded on or transported by road, provided that their total quantity does not exceed 10 cubic metres or when it comes to their own use or in the form of neighbouring aid. The law also defines the growth coefficient, which is one of the elements for determining the height of cadastral income. The Group therefore supports the objective expressed in the draft law, but we note that this law is not suitable for further consideration and that we must also find systemic solutions in the area of forestry in the legal solution, because I think that the last damage that occurs here in the area of subscribers is enormous and we need a systemic solution in every way with a comprehensive approach to this greatest natural resource. Let us not forget that in the last two years almost 40% of the annual cut was a sanitary section, almost half of which was attacked by a lobulator. Only some systemic measures, which will guide the forestry activity in the area of systematicity in the area of wood storage, will bring some long-term and quality solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Minister's team, colleagues and colleagues! Let me present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the proposal of the Forest Act. With the new Forest Law, we allow farmers to deal with logging and wood harvesting, not with administrative burdens. In the opening, let me mention that carriers in the Forest Act were introduced in July 2013, as the current Minister of Mag. Dejan Židan wanted to discipline small farmers who also have forests. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been opposed to this solution since the beginning, and at the end of 2013 we have also proposed the abolition of the carriers, but the current government has not heard of it. At the beginning of 2014, Slovenia suffered damage to its phalanges and, in agreement with Minister Židan, a moratorium on carriers was proposed at the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which will also expire this year. This is the only key reason why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we want the carriers to be abolished as of 1 January 2017. We also point to two important facts that are relevant to the abolition of carriers. The first fact is the problem of the underdogs. In 2015, and even more so in the summer months of this year, the subscriber affected most of the Slovenian forest and would, by also shutting down carriers, especially to smaller farmers, give them the opportunity to deal with logging and harvesting, but not to consider whether they will be facing high penalties if they do not have carriers in the morning when they get up. Another fact that we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party is the amendment of the Law on Forests, which is the state-owned enterprise of the Slovenian State Forests. This year, the State established a state-owned company and is not subject to those undertakings. In our view, this is a discriminatory process, because on the one hand, the state has companies as its policy, and on the other hand, we have a policy of burdening smaller farmers and foresters, who, in addition to all practical work, have to deal with the administrative burden. The law has also imposed high penalties, which is a disproportionate measure, as a farmer may also receive a fine of EUR 2 000 with a minor offence. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are also convinced that the abolition of carriers does not mean the loss of traceability of wood from forest to final use. We have quite a few moments on this path, which are a clear enough signal that traceability remains. One is the charter on the use and transport of forest and wood varieties, and the other is the decision of the Institute for Forests, which everyone who wants to cut wood in their own forest must have. Therefore, we are not in breach of the European legal order by shutting down carriers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly committed to creating a friendly environment for all farmers, especially in this area of the exceptional wealth that Slovenia has, this is the forest. That is why we will, of course, support this amendment of the Forest Law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u92	All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we are considering the amendment of the Law on Forests, with which the proposaler is once again proposing the abolition of carriers. Although the use of vehicles is frozen by the end of this year after the last two novelties of the law. This means that forest owners do not need to deal with them since the introduction of the transport companies themselves. Therefore, according to the proposaler, at least the last two years should be devoted intensively to cutting and removing timber from the forest, since they did not have to deal with the administration in practice. Judging from the exceptional accumulation of lobular in forests, which were more than 50% damaged by the gland in 2014, it is more than obvious that some forest owners have not done their work in the way they should have done it despite frozen carriers. Thus, because of the favorable circumstances, including the fact that damaged trees were lying in the forests, Lubadar became overcrowded. Sad to say, though, because of the forest’s unknown fliers, the effects will also be borne by those who removed the wood in time, and the skull will spread to them from the surrounding area. Let us recall that the carriers were introduced in 2013 in order to ensure traceability of wood. At that time, the competent ministry was very much reminded that a huge amount of timber was being taken away or stolen, especially from state forests. If the driver was driving a stolen timber, no one could prove it to him, and the carrier was supposed to ensure that it was legally cut and removed and that the final buyer was known. Therefore, according to our assessment, the intention of introducing carriers was not poor, even though they had never come to life, so we understand the intention of the proposer to stop the carriers. However, the competent ministry has already prepared a more specific proposal for a new Forest Law, which regulates some other important matters, such as the liability of forest owners when the visitor is injured. As we estimate that the Government has a more comprehensive proposal for a law, we will not support the proposal for a new Forest Law that we are considering today in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we will not support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests. The aim of the proposed amendment law of the Law on Forests is to end the transport system of carriers in the transport of forest forest varieties. The fact is, however, that the situation in the forests following the onset of the acorns in 2014 and also after the large-scale attack on the ground is so difficult that it is necessary to have a much broader view of the management of this very serious view in the forests, such as the removal of carriers and the reduction of administrative barriers to the transport of timber from forests. In these changes, we also have in mind the fact that all these developments need to be properly taken into account also in the so-called growth coefficient, which is then needed in the implementation of the Cadastrian Income Act. Last but not least, the existing solutions in the Law on Forests relating to sanitary logging are weak and do not allow for timely harvesting of wood into the wood or landfills outside the forest itself, which, of course, worsens the situation because of the subscriber also in healthy trees, and this is a solution that the Government will also process in the new law and thus enable more effective prevention and spread of tree disease. The situation in the forest is such that more solutions are needed than the removal of carriers. At the same time, however, it is important to point out that the system itself, which will be established, must nevertheless allow the act of illegally cut wood and wood products to be prevented on the market and, above all, the traceability of forest wood varieties remains a reality. That's what we need to follow. That is why we will not support this law, which has been tabled by Members and Members, i.e. amendments to the Law on Forests, because the Government has already introduced a new law into the procedure of the National Assembly that will deal with all these issues in a more appropriate manner than the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u95	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. A representative of the proposer, Mr Tomaž Lisec, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you, President, for your word. Allow me to respond to the opinion of the Government and certain parliamentary groups, which largely oppose the proposed law by the SDS, because the Government is to prepare a better law, which is also supposed to abolish carriers. I told the introduction earlier about the folly of introducing carriers, transport documents and so on. All the information that must be, which burdens the Slovenian farmer or one who deals with his own forests. And the government says we have a more systemic law and we're going to shut down carriers. The carriers were introduced into this law under the same minister, who will now brag about how he abolishes them. It's the first paradox. The other paradox is that, in fact, the carriers will not be abolished, only they will be named otherwise. If you look at that law, I think it's the Forest Act, the SG-E or the F, when you introduced these carriers, you changed Article 17 and added Article 17a, b, c, c, d, e, f, I think also Mr, articles. These articles, which touch the carriers and also the criminal provisions that touch them, are in short, all that touch the carriers are abolished. And here in the SDS Group we are consistent. We opposed them when they were put into effect. We proposed a law to end them. Then we were so fair that we said okay to the pharynx, let's give the moratorium, and we'll see what and how. Today, we propose that with 1. 1. 2017 Carriers no longer apply. And what does the government do? While we delete the most infamous, so-called Article 17b, what does the Government do? In our Law 17.b, we delete Article and Article 17b amends Article 17b only to the extent that forest wood varieties loaded on a vehicle and transported on the road for the purpose of monitoring the traceability of traffic with forest forest varieties and the exercise of control under this Act are accompanied by Article 17c of the Accounting Charter. And then it was in that law in brackets: hereinafter referred to as carriers. And you're shutting down carriers by giving – what? Subsequent to the text: Bookkeeping document. Despite the fact that in the SDS Group we say that all of this already exists, that we have a traceability system – a charter on the use and transport of forest forest ranges and a decision of the Institute of Forests – you terminate carriers – how? By changing the name from the carrier to the bookkeeping document. And then there's a 17-c article that even spreads what the carrier has to have. You are deleting the rulebook as to whether it will be A4 or A3, or whether it will be a color copy or not. If we look at Article 17c of the existing law, which we also delete because we delete everything about carriers, let me tell people what they will get under this government and under the Minister of Mags. A Jew. A personal name, address, tax number, company, seat, tax number of the owner of the trees or forest varieties, personal name and so on, also other persons, EMŠO driver, type and registration number of the vehicle, place, date and time of loading, place and date of unloading, type and quantity of forest wood varieties and order number of the bookkeeping document, and another identification number will come. Yes, congratulations and hello! But if this is the termination of the transporters, but you don't tell me you're going to expand it and just change the name, then we have some weird concept about what's off. There's more nonsense touching the carriage. If someone has now been punished by certain persons, the responsible persons of the self-government local community will now be punished, from 600 to 2,000 euros, if they do not respect this government law. [[…]] And that I am right, read article 20 of the draft government law or the law that was passed at the government and will now come to the National Assembly. I quote: “In the second and third paragraphs of Article 81, the word ‘transport’ shall be replaced by the words ‘bookkeeping document’. How do you draw it?Oh, my God! I mean, yeah, you're already deleting, so change your name. Now either it's lying or it's hypocrisy or it's ignorance or something else, choose for yourself. I'm not going to run the quizze, who's the real person, A, B or C, but answer yourself whether you're lying, cheating or not knowing what you're doing. Moreover, article 22 of the bill: “Transport, storage and availability in the public interest of seized and taken forest forest ranges is carried out by the Slovenian State Forests.” Otherwise it says here on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, but we all know that this company is essentially a bypass of a particular party in the Slovenian Parliament and in the Slovenian political space. We put it in the budget earlier, and now we will give it to the Slovenian National Forest. Because Minister Židan cannot do better than he does for his client and for his friends, but that in the SMC Group you follow her so well into the abyss or into the collapse of the Slovenian forest forest chain or where the whole factor will be only Slovenian national forests, private owners will be some skyscraper, which we confirm with some new facts. If we look at Article 29a or New Article 12, in case of legal enforcement by another person, in short, someone does something for someone because they do not do sanitary cutting – who gets Yes, of course, the Slovenian State Company again. You're still playing with the Constitution. Your property rights are no longer in the world. Yes, I agree, we also have forest owners who do not do what they should do, and in the case of the Lubadar, this means bad forests, although the neighbor has well-groomed forests, and you as the unknown owner also do harm to the neighbor, but this way with your left hand to go and play with the concept of property rights, respected, reminds me of a time before 1990. And not to speak on the bluff, with the members of the coalition, you will be given a hearing on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. This, I say, is an infamous priority list, which is the first to purchase agricultural land and forests. I remember the debates in that 2004-2008 term, when we were quite the right party, but we didn't know who had the advantage, co-owner, border guard, tenant, another farmer. In this draft of your law, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia will move from 6th to the second place. So the first would have the advantage of buying a co-owner, then the Fund of Agricultural Lands, and then the borders, the tenants and other farmers. And to reinforce, the fines remain due not to carriers, but to the bookkeeping documents in this forest law that you sent to the National Assembly. In short, nationalisation is taking place in Slovenian private forests, administration is not shrinking and what you want is happening, Slovenian state forests are alpha and omega, and Slovenian farmers should watch it all, and to say domestically, criminalization of Slovenian forest owners is taking place. And I understand, Mr. Jew, that he has an intention to do this because he has introduced the carriers, and now he's somehow unwinding how he's supposed to stop them, and he won't. But, honourable Members of the SMC, if at least in certain policies you like in the Alde Group, European Liberals, I really hope that you will not allow the nationalisation of private Slovenian forests, but that you will follow what is also liberal here in this law – the abolition of carriers and the reduction of administration. And then, of course, the United Left, the Ministry's law will be better, I think now I've proven in five minutes that the Ministry's law will be worse. SMC says it's been this law for the fourth time. And it is obvious that this law will have to be proposed for the fifth time. When you adopt your marriage, you will probably be asked, for the first time, by the Constitutional Court, by the common sense, why you are trespassing on property rights, and for the second time, how do you imagine the abolition of carriers by simply changing your name – the book charter. For the fifth time, we'll be proposing a marriage, not to worry if you're up to 1. 1. bring your law through the procedure, we will introduce the law on 1 January, but we will give again the possibility of deciding according to our conscience or a healthy farmer's mind and the final withdrawal of carriers, which is the intention of this law. Indeed, here I appeal exclusively to a SMC client – why? Desus and SD have problems with this fine transition to the abolition of carriers, because they were themselves the most zealous advocates of this law. And to back up. In these two days, I received quite a few e-mails from the forest owners' union. We know how many forest owners are in Slovenia, and they have a roof connection. The coalition can or does not support their opinion. The requirements and proposals of the Forest Owners Association will start here at the end: you have not coordinated with us on property rights, on forest transition and so on. You didn't coordinate with the key actor. But yesterday you had a marriage when you asked the SDS if we were coordinating with anyone. We're coordinating and we're coming up with a proposal. But you're not in line, and you're coming up with a proposal. And what do they say? What does access have to be? It is not what is stated in your proposal for Law 5.a. There is a need for a comprehensive change of the forest law, here they go on from us and from you, owners get more rights to manage their property, and you take them with what I said before. We propose that the link between the trees for regular cuttings be transformed into optional marking of the trees for cutting. Forest economic planning needs to be substantially reduced. It is necessary to amend the articles which impose an obligation on forest owners to implement both EU regulations. Otherwise, the seizure of illegal logging must be resolved. And when we were cutting illegal wood, sometimes we said we had John's guest, he was the president of the state of Janez, and the Prime Minister was John. Now we have — whose? In fact, Borutovo, Mirotovo, but whatever we call it, the most illegal logging is carried out in state forests. I also remember the debate about this law that we had in 2013 and that Slovenian foresters and farmers cut a million cubits a year in black. Figo, from the state forests, is the most driven and ask farmers from anywhere in Slovenia. Even at the time when concessions were said to be over the head of the country, see, at 6: 00 a.m. from state forests past our farms, they destroy the road they built — who? The local community and the people themselves with their money or with their shops and shovels. And I've asked people a lot of times, no, it's John Novak, and from Janez Novak's guest he's taking home or, I don't know, Franz Znidaršič takes Jožet Novak from his guest. They said no, it's a state forest. In short, if you don't support our marriage and follow the Mags. You're going to have a big problem with Dean Jedhan. You're not going to stop the vehicles, but you're going to rename them. You will continue to give people high penalties and fines and you will give full effect to the party's Magi project. Dejana Jediana, Slovenian National Forest Company. On the other hand, with those articles on interventions into ownership structure, you will go to the path of nationalisation of Slovenian forests and on the path of criminalisation of Slovenian farmers. If this is the intention of this government, then we are predicting that you will not receive our support under such a law. Once again, this abolition of carriers does not derail what the European legal order commands. We have enough traceability. Today it was said that the carrier is too rigorous a measure, but with this you will give your bookkeeping charter and more numbers. Personal car numbers – this morning I read in one of the media to put some chips on Slovenian cars everywhere. Big Brother Miro Cerar will be watching us through every corner that goes anywhere in the store, and you'll have us on your hands. And I believe that before the end of our term of office in this sense of yours, we will be given traceability to Slovenian citizens and citizens of the chip with 1. 1. 2019, when this government is gone, someone will be responsible for the introduction of traceability. In short, I believe that any moment we have not followed in this bill is a growth coefficient. Yes, probably the Government itself has not yet seen the whole law, at least if we are looking at the proposals of the Forest Owners Association, which I think they are right in certain parts. But to do what you do, how your marriage is better Have an exit in force, accept our marriage, go to the board, the government has its own marriage, make a hybrid. [[…]] As far as the transporters are concerned, let's give our solutions. As far as the growth coefficient is concerned, we may also put in some of the following articles, through the amendment form, proposals proposed by the government law, and we will resolve matters. However, if you pass our law today or on Tuesday at the vote, you will expand and not terminate the carrier in Slovenian forests, exclusively in private forests, because the state forests are already a missed and lost opportunity according to the proposal and principles of the party, which is the smallest in this coalition, but apparently the most powerful in the Slovenian state forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u97	A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition, has the floor. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u98	Chairman, thank you. In order to better understand the objectives of the Government and also to respond to the concerns of the honourable Member, it is likely necessary to explain the importance of carriers at all and where they come from. The system of carriers shall fall within the framework of a regulation adopted on 20. Ten. 2010 we are talking about EU Regulation 995/2010 laying down the obligations of economic operators that place wood and wood products on the market. And this Regulation also contains a system of necessary due diligence, which, under its Article 6, establishes what is required by the entities, both private and state, of course, in certain exceptions, contained in the existing or existing implementation of legislation and which I believe will increase in the future, we are talking about a cut for our own needs. In short, the Regulation provides for a minimum set of data to be provided by the State or entities in its field when transporting and placing on the market in one form or another and by documents accompanying wood. Now, of course, we can talk about whether this is an existing document or a new one. The existing solution introduced by the carriers was, in our view, the shortest way to do so at that time. When a new requirement comes that contains such and such data from the point of view of the work that we are doing and the professional services also, it is best to put it in a new form, to put another document more on the shoulders of citizens and then, of course, the result is roughly the same as the satisfaction of these carriers. The alternative is to find one existing document and give it the minimum supplements necessary to meet the requirements of the European Regulation. If anyone wants to do this, the path is much harder. It is necessary to look at what regulates the existing document, to assess the implications of the new document and then to do something that follows the requirements optimally. And this is the solution that I believe the representatives of the proposer have been referring to, even though they have not told us anything explicit and will probably be in a new solution, because the regulation must be implemented from 2001 onwards. The discussion was also about responsibility and procedures for why we have such carriers as we have them. It must be said, however, that the start of the preparation of the material for the existing system of carriers dates from the beginning of 15. Ten. 2012. At that time, the first document was given to the government procedure. The government procedure itself has been completed by obtaining all the consents in intersectoral coordination. 2. In 2013, when the last co-rapporteur gave his consent, this is the government's legal service. It should be noted, however, that the government of Alenka Bratušek has assumed its mandate, including that of the current Minister of Agriculture 20. 3. 2015, at the time of the handover, this urgently needed material was put into his hands because we were late for the implementation of the European Regulation. This material was carefully prepared by the existing coalition and the government, according to them, at the time of handover, and had to be adopted by emergency procedure. The alternative path, of course, I said at the outset, would be to prepare something in a more careful way that would probably take more into account the interests of those actors who have to do so. In short, we are talking about more or less skilled and taking on the solution of a problem. So the Government, of course, which prepared this, was also involved by the party that is now proposing a correction of this solution, I believe that the problems are aware just as we are and we have already said in the beginning that we see that this is meaningful, that it is necessary to fix and improve. There is also a second bill in the procedure that solves some other things, but I believe that today's debate is aimed at an existing proposal to an extent. However, a few more things should be mentioned in order to improve understanding. The competence of transport and storage has so far been entrusted in these cases to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and is, of course, analogous to the transfer of forest management to the Slovenian Society for Forests. In short, we are talking about a solution that has been so far and is an analogy at the time of the adoption of the law and does not change the legal order in any way. Coordination with owners of private forests. We are talking about an association that mainly includes active owners. According to our information, it is estimated to include some 4,000 to 400 thousand owners. We have also asked for more detailed information on several occasions, already to understand their representative role. They have been coordinated several times. We agreed on some issues; we did not agree on others. However, the provisions which will otherwise be the subject of a debate in government law relate mainly to inactive owners, but I believe that they are not and are, of course, only intended for measures that protect the general public benefit of other owners. It's about interventions that are similar to what we have in the fires and so on. Even then, no one wonders how we will enter the possession of one owner who burns down his apartment and thereby protect the entire block. That's how much I'd have to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u99	The speaker, who has priority over the other Members, spoke again. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you. Just so we're clear, Janša's government won't be to blame again. Yes, in 2012, under this European regulation, bureaucrats at the Ministry, as probably all ministries, were given their homework and saw their destination, in short, their survival. And yes, at the end of 2012, we heard that the Ministry was supposed to be preparing some changes to the Forest Act in solving the concept of traceability of forest wood varieties. But you know what they did? In the coalition, we said that we wouldn't accept such a law by any means and have officials write whatever they wanted. That's when the politicians stopped the officials. So I'm asking, are you going to stop this government coalition's politicians or not? If the Ministry's intention is to do as little as possible to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which is to lead to the abolition of this fund, there will be our support. Don't worry, we're in. In short, the coalition rejected what the officials had prepared. I hope you'll follow, too. As for this debate on traceability, the European traceability regulation and so on. Once again, we have at least two documents proving from the beginning and to the end what is happening to the forest forest range. Then there were the carriers, and there was a third document, where we doctored from the form when the regulation was adopted. Of course, those officials were the main guys in the village again. Most of them probably have no contact with a farmer who deals in the morning with whether he has a motorized motor or has a means of transport, not whether he will pay up to 3,000 euros in fines and whether he will load a range above 10 centimeters so that he does not get it on his back by a forest inspector or police. In short, tell me where you are in the EU or if you have received any response that if by de facto shutting down the carrier, not what you are adding to the various information that is supposed to be, or by violating the EU acquis. And I will not start how many times this coalition has violated the EU acquis and nothing has happened to anyone. We insist here that traceability still persists. And for the last time, I hope that I will no longer have to announce myself: Will officials and people from the Slovenian National Forests or a healthy farmer win, at least in a certain part of the coalition that wants to burden the Slovenian farmer, or will you let him be criminalized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u101	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor now. Prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! First of all, I will stop when the SDS in September this year tabled a proposal for a new Forest Act proposing the abolition of carriers. Of course, I didn't work with these carriers before, we know that it's been going on for a couple of years, it's being said one way or another, and I wouldn't specifically comment on it, but I would like to say something about it. I am deeply disturbed by these administrative obstacles, but not only by this law, in all the matters that we are introducing in our country. My opinion is that if we compare ourselves with the Austrians, look, the difference between the Austrian net and the gross salary is minimal. There's a big difference between a net and a gross salary. And we should all be in this room asking ourselves why this gross salary is so high or why the net salary is so small. These administrative obstacles, this bureaucracy certainly has an impact on this, but I don't mean this law now, on yours, my colleague, who are here now, but here we're going to have to solve the problem more broadly. I have received some information that these carriers are not necessary under European legislation. This means, now that every owner gets a cut decision, of course, he should have made a record of how much he cut, what kind of wood he cut, written in cubic meters. Every owner, even I, if I were the owner, would do it for my record to compare between years, what I cut, what was the yield on this wood and so on. These things are doubling. I think we're going to have to simplify these things in the future, and in this very thing I see that these things in this new law proposed by the Government, in this novel where a lot of things have come into existence, from this bulwark attack, and in here I see quite a few reasons and things that we should complement to make this law really systemic and long-term to go on. The first matter that I am concerned about or have some concerns about, the year before, that we adopted the Law on State Forests, and, of course, the law on all forests will soon be in the National Assembly, says an additional 80% of the forests, which are privately owned. I hope that we will also study these things well, because here we will go into property rights and here we will have a lot to study, even in some public debate, that these things will be really systemicly resolved, that we will not re- table a new law after about a month or six months, because we will find that these things are not going together because some property rights may be violated. Here in this I see how certain tasks, the competences of responsible poor foresters, will be defined. I think it should also be written in this new law that poor foresters, campers, as they say, will be more present on the ground. Thus, they should also be unloaded there by these administrative obstacles, which are being run in offices today. I'll tell you, then, because I'm home from the farm and I'm also when I reported that the woodsman would come to pay for the damage, so there's nothing wrong, but he said to the woodsman, we don't have time now, in 14 days I'll come, and you cut down a little bit and write down on the list, how much there was one, how much there was another. But what I'm saying is, he probably didn't have time because they're burdened with other things, and we know there's trouble in the woods. Slovenian forests are today very much in crisis because of their counterparts and other things to which it will be necessary to take a thorough approach. These things have sometimes been solved by poor foresters, and today we will have to unload them somewhere else. Years ago, I know, as far as I can remember, some reverend was on a smaller scale for one woodsman, a camper, then they charged these things with a larger surface. I think that if we want to solve things systematically, we need to solve these things here too, we need to define the tasks of foresters, or these camps, responsibilities, responsibilities. In fact, each poor forester should find time daily or at least very often to be present in his area. Then he'll be able to find his way around if they attack the forest. These are the things that will have to be solved. Thus, it will certainly be necessary to increase the efficiency of poor foresters. As I mentioned earlier, these areas will probably need to be reduced by one camp today, of course the number of camps will need to be increased. Existing camps need to be moved from offices to the field and unloaded by these administrative barriers. What's left of it, I'm not gonna say they're doing lame things, but that's one thing if they don't have to be regulated, why should they be regulated if they don't have to. Then I can see the problem in the piss. Of course, machine logging should be in readable forests, we know that we have mainly readable forests, we should also limit, especially in that year’s January, when the forest is most burdened, because there is enormous damage in the forest. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u103	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I can say that I almost shouldn't have to discuss it, because all the professional correct observation, both from the profession and from the field, was given by my fellow Member, Mr Ivan Škodnik, from the coalition parliamentary group. However, we will vote differently. Because I will vote on the basis of my reasoned and reasoned observations, he will have to vote on the principle of coalition coordination, because we know that in the forests, the SD party has the main word to subordinate the entire coalition. That's a fact, that's a constructive fact. But I will go back more professionally and I will focus only on this proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. She suggested the removal of the vehicle from 1. 1. 2017. Look at the fact that this document is unnecessary, that the actual carrier has not yet come to life and has not seen the light of the world. I would say thank God that the entire coalition was also so smart that we all frozen the use of these carriers together on our initiative, and that in fact they have not come into force at all. Now that we propose to remove one administrative unnecessary obstacle that has not yet come to light, this is the biggest problem: no, that is not right, we will not confirm it, but we have a hundred other proposals. Even when I read this opinion of the Government, though this is a very good proposal, it is well-intentioned to reduce administrative barriers, but it is not detailed, as the content of more efficient and integrated forest protection is lacking. We are not solving forest protection with our proposal, we are only removing one administrative barrier. Here, then, is the definition of the growth coefficient and so on, which is linked to the KD and so on. But these are already some of the confusion that you are leading or perhaps thinking about with a new draft law that has nothing to do with our law. I have already said five times in the National Assembly, and we are not jealous if you reject our proposal with the same proposal in fourteen days, but not if you are looking for such excuses and are inventing some other imperfections that are lacking in our proposal. We're not jealous if you come, you don't have to change the text, just come in 14 days and sign it, that's our proposal. The matter will be facilitated, the obstacles will be reduced, the owners will be more satisfied. That's our goal. And it is not our goal to now beat ourselves on the chest, this is the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. No, no, no. It doesn't have to be our proposal. But it's true that this is your problem, because we're going to beat you to the punch. I think we should start working a little. Time's running out. It's been two years, two more years, and then it's time to get some work done. Only then, two years from now, it'll be the end of the term. That's the problem. But once again, six times, in our client, we're not jealous if you come up with the same proposal in fourteen days. No problem. Come on. Come on, not make excuses. That the government is writing in such excuses that have nothing to do with our proposal. That's just enough to get a little, I'd say, blur out some good work or, I'd say, a timely job. We know date one. The 1st will be here tomorrow. And look, we now have, like, three documents already accompanying this wood. It begins with a decision on scoping, then the so-called carrier, which you are now transforming into a bookkeeping charter, although we already have a valid, in application of the instrument on the use and transport of forest and wood assortments. Look, if we're going to introduce as much control as possible, then we need to get as many documents as possible. And now with a law that is supposed to be new, you're re-imposing a new accounting charter. In my view, things must be simple, transparent and transparent. In my opinion, there could be one document that begins with a decision to sew, with this decision and, of course, with supplementary information, you can drive this wood. With additional information, I'm speaking on one of the documents, you can see exactly where you sold it. This could be one document. It just needs to be supplemented with data, not to introduce four documents now and tables, to fill in all this data and so on. I believe that the technique goes so far as to be computers and that progress is simply to be followed, but simply not to introduce as many documents as possible, so that we are as traceable as possible. No! No! As many documents as possible, traceability is lost. These are the facts. I know that our proposal will not be supported by the vote. However, I would be very happy if you would come as soon as possible with a similar proposal. And don't wait long, because 1. 1. will be here very soon. Put this document or this proposal of your proposal or our modified table as soon as possible so that the owners know what they need from 1. 1., what a document they must have in their pocket. And it'll probably take another three days for the printery to print it. I'd say the update is very important here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u105	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u106	Mr President, thank you for saying so! For a little introduction, I could say that the Committee on Agriculture is sitting here today in a partially expanded composition. I'd like to welcome my colleague Vlasta here, who is not a member. The discussion of my colleagues also somehow encouraged me to speak, but we are touching on some forest law, which is a fundamental law in the field of forestry. I could say that the constitution is in the field of forestry. From this point of view, I would draw a parallel with the Forest Management Act, in which, after very long coordination, we reached a law that regulated matters in some way, set up a framework for forest management in state ownership. Because we had previously found that there was a lot of anarchy there, I'm concessionaries and there's not going to tell you what else was going on. Through this prism, I also look at this law, which is somehow being amended again. Of course, I am concerned that, earlier in the debate of the Group, I have pointed out that we have been amending this law for the fourth or fifth time and that I would probably say that we have a systemic error in this forestry legislation. Finally, I would like to recall the words of the former Secretary of State, Mr Marenc, who said in the debate on the Law on Forest Management in State-Owned Ownership that we will finally have to go there, which is 25 years old, and I think some transformation is necessary. Through this prism, I would also like to continue this debate and that some of the parallels in the Forest Management Act should also be drawn into this roofing law. The blood marriage, however, covers all the forests, besides the state's private ones, we have talked about this many times. We need to lay new groundwork in the so-called framework legislation of the Forest Act, which deals mainly with how to manage and manage these 80% of the forests that are privately owned, where we find that we do not have control over what is going on there. And it happens that the forest remains somewhat uncleaned, that the consequences remain, the pests in the forest and that we somehow generate this constant crisis in the field of forestry, and we are discussing over and over again this pest to the skull, which is a very common topic in this Parliament. I would like to see, in addition to this simplification offered by this law, which we will now get into consideration in order to systematically address the foundations of how to regulate and increase the efficiency of management in these private forests as well. I continue to say that the Law on the Management of State Forests offers or indicates some solution to where matters need to be taken. This, of course, is the beginning of the forest chain, to continue it to some wood collection warehouses, and then, by itself, create some sort of inertia in the system, that there is no entropy in this system. I am setting thesis that we have some good foundations in this law for this 20%, but we need to find some solutions for 80%. And as Mr Marenche said, we need to go to this law, which has been in force for 20 years and we are constantly correcting it, to redefine it, to simplify it, perhaps by the example of the American Constitution, which is quite simple. I would say this must become some constitution for our forests and our greatest wealth. So much so far, since my colleague has something to say in the debate, I would like to come forward later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u107	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Prepare Mr Simon Zajc and Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President for your word. The Law on Forests or Forest Management - it started to be very bad to deal with these forests, or management is bad from granting concessions to former concessionaires 20 years ago. The concessions were so low, it is said, the country received so little from its property, then these prices of wood varieties simply moved on to private owners and private owners found that it was not enough to break out of their forest and the January began to stop in private forests. The timber processing industry started to collapse for several reasons. Now, after 20 years, when something had to be done new to the management of state forests, it is looking for such and different solutions. This company is also not a real solution to the State Forests, as I believe it will be seen in the future. Nor will this state-owned company save the forest wood chain or accelerate the forest processing industry. However, management in private forests is neglected all the time. Also, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, whose work is paid in a large majority by the State, does not have an organised forestry service or this part of its activities. I wonder why not. Would these private owners, then, be the competitors of wood cutting in the state forests, or would this deliberately block, so it is not trying to organize or help these owners of private forests, which we have over 450 000. When we were caught, that is to say, we started at that time or the Government began to think about how it would put up a new administrative barrier with so-called carriers, where every carrier would have to carry a thickness of more than 10 centimeters from the forest, a carrier with different data, although the European regulation does not require that. The European Regulation stipulates that the logging records and records must be kept for five years, not that documents must be kept for transporting timber from the forest home, for example, those several kilometres, or several hundred metres, even for their own use. Since the Government at the time found to introduce carriers in dealing with the consequences of the acorns, there will be a major confusion, this has been temporarily eliminated, and we are now extending this, although this carrier is completely out of line. They do not have such carriers in neighbouring countries. It is known that there must be a consignment of supplies, general documents and these are sufficient in all countries, only in Slovenia. That's why I'm going to support this law, even though there's been a change in the roof law. I haven't looked at him yet. If the bookkeeping document is in the same role as the carrier, then this is an even bigger joke. Bookkeeping documents shall be used in bookkeeping or in certain financial operations, not in transport. In order for someone to lead a bookkeeping charter for their own use of wood, for example, for fire, for anything, this will have to be better thought out, and in the new law more attention will have to be given to management in private forests.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u109	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Jean Mahnic and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. The Law on Forests needs to be opened, not only because of the abolition of carriers, but also because of the Cadastrian Income Act, we need to open it up because of the crisis we have in the forests because of the underprivileged. There are many things that need to be resolved in this law right now. Your bill, of course, only terminates carriers and touches only one of the things that need to be regulated at this time. That is not enough, and for that reason we will not support this in the first place. As far as the transporters are concerned, I'd say the following. The government law, which today, I think, has come to the National Assembly, the transporters are breaking down. Now, it's been said that this carrier only renames it, but that's not what the farmer says. Farmers will not need this ledger when transporting, but they will only need a cut decision if they drive up to 10 cubic metres. Now, whether this quantity is life or not, I hope that at the Ministry of Agriculture you have agreed on this or that they agree with this quantity that these are usually trailers used by farmers. For a private person, this administrative obstacle is now being removed or the request is being eliminated. For those who drive more, but who drive more, it makes sense for them to have a charter with them. Even if you're transporting fruit or transporting passengers, you've got it all written down where you've been, where you're going, when you've taken the passengers, and so on. In short, it's a custom. And for the farmers, like I said, this is how it goes. They won't have to do that, they have a decision to make. The government law regulates other things, but we'll discuss those things at that time on the committee and then later here at the meeting when the time is right. Every time there's one such marriage, it's obvious to us that you have to work so we don't work, but this trick is always in your sleeve. This law has been published for public debate, I think at the end of April on your website, this is said to have been known for so long that the government has been preparing a change in this law concerning carriers, and that you are now investing just this and just crossing and then pounding on your chest, that you are the only one who thinks and that only you are doing, that's actually right, that's your way. [[…]] But if you could make a complete overhaul of the Forest Law, then I'd give you the right. Then it would be serious to think that you're working, but the government isn't. We, too, expected the Government or the Ministry to open this law in an integrated manner, because when we talked about the Forest Management Act owned by the Republic of Slovenia, then the Secretary said, yes, I listen to you, the Government intends to open it up and then we will cooperate and talk with you. And now it hasn't come to that yet. If they did this to me, it would hold. Now that you've only deleted this, but there's another one of your tricks when you see what the government's done, you invest a little bit earlier, and you're the one who's doing it, and the rest aren't. But like I said, the transporters are gonna quit for the farmers. But as for those truckers, that's where you need to know where they came from. For me, for example, if I see someone with a trailer driving wood, it's important that if you stop him, he has something on him, that I know he didn't drive it out of my forest and he cuts it black. And here will be the cut decision just enough, and I think that's just enough life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u111	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek is to be prepared and then, in the context of the general debate, the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues! Now there are Members from this National Assembly who actually come from rural areas and we have contacts with the countryside in a slightly different way than just through television screens when you watch the agricultural shows, especially those who are from a city that you do not know what the situation in the Slovenian countryside is like in Slovenian agriculture. When we tabled this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, now the main point is how many times we have submitted it that we always want to beat the government, and above all not to go into some broader correction, but to go, as the predecessor said, just to change some article, to make the most of us just delete something. You have a problem with support already if we just delete something, let alone go into a complete overhaul or amendment of the Forest Law. This is, of course, a coalition, this is in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The opposition does not even have all the resources necessary to go into such wide changes to the law. However, we are proposing corrections in those segments where those who come from rural areas and do not serve only the interests of bureaucracy and the public sector, as the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia does, are understandable, there also has the greatest support in the public sector among the professors' assemblies and so on. Go to the countryside. I am watching a lot of Tweeter, I am monitoring the Twitter account of the SMC Group, and I have not yet seen you going somewhere to a village to go to a farm to talk about the problems of the Slovenian countryside in order to talk about the problems of Slovenian farmers. I didn't even see any other discussions on rural issues. But you go into the field when you need to defend the Minister of Health, when you need to defend your other ministers, but that's your way of working. I really don't know what the stress is going to be if the carrier pulls out, then some bookkeeping document. Above all, it is here – this is your proposal that you say that I do not know what you are saving – that you will have to have the address, tax number, seat, tax number of the carrier, personal name, tax number and registration number of the driver, type and registration number of the vehicle, place, date and time of loading, in short, it is not about any unloading. You are introducing registration numbers, for each registration number for each car you need to know who will drive one log, and in recent months in Europe you have lost 10,000 migrants who we do not know where they are, and that is not the problem. For them, put in the license plate numbers so you know who's who, if we're going to know where every log is. And the log doesn't pose any danger. It is also an additional burden and not a burden on the Slovenian countryside. Go to the field, ask the people what they think about it in the countryside. From the places where I come, already there is a big problem, farms take over young families, those who do not own only on the farm, but those who are in the morning, afternoon at work, come home late in the afternoon, there may be time for the basket, but work in the woods is getting more and more on the page. See also the state of forest trains, the state of forest roads, other ways where things are neglected. With such a law, for the first time, with the support of us, which is, of course, in some way, I can agree that the Fire Act is to put out some problems, but if we decide to propose a change to solve one problem, these are currently carriers, we will probably not go to make a change or amendment of the whole law. That's the first problem. The second problem is what you're preparing as a solution to this situation. There will be no more carriers, but there will be another administrative obstacle, an administrative burden. But the point is, you'll be able to say that you've shut down the transporters. But the situation on the ground is clear, and the electoral outcome will also be appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u113	Bojan Podkrodšek also has the word and then the representative of the Government and the proposer in the final part.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with his team, colleagues and colleagues! We have already talked a lot in this mandate about our outstanding goods, which we also envy by foreigners, especially neighbours, is of course Slovenian forest. Sometimes a person feels that we have several types of basements in Slovenia. Of course, the ones I'm talking about under the slogans, I don't think they're mates, but they're spiders. This has already been demonstrated several times in this mandate. I remember with all due respect my neighbour, Mr Ivan, and Mr Ranc, when they talked a lot about the problems in the area of the forest in Slovenia. I also remember a fellow Member who actually brought into the National Assembly all the products that are possible in the field of wood. There was no computer, and there was no basement, and there was everything else. But I say that with great respect. In this mandate, we most often hear subscribers and systemic solutions. I think that many times the profession in Slovenia is in a very difficult situation in this area, because politics is getting too involved in this area. Today we are talking about carriers and we are talking about systemic solutions. There will be twice as much rain at the end of the year. Let me remind you, when we adopted the Law on State Forests, there was a lot of time, many years before us, but I remember the last days in the corridors, in the summer and in coordination, and that this claim that I claim that there are many types of subscribers in Slovenia was an indicator when we adopted this law. What a big deal. I remember only one part of this reception, when in two parliamentary groups, I must say that in the coalition, from the same constituency, they took up two different locations where this company will be established. Once again, in the two parliamentary groups represented in the coalition, from the same constituency, of course, they took up two locations of the company's seat, with the fact that we have a million problems in this area. When a person follows this from a distance, on the other hand, let me also say that I am not at home in the city, that I am at home in the countryside and that I know very well how Slovenian farmers, the owner of the forest, most of those who have inherited from their ancestors can take care of their forest. I think it's very difficult for some beech or spruce to stay on any neighbor for a long time. I think it's mostly modeled. It is also very difficult for anyone from that forest to uncontrollablely drive away the wood, tear it down, and drive it away. I think these farmers, these forest owners, can modelly care for their wealth, which they most often have when they urgently need it. That was in our past. I think that the current farmers are aware of this and that it will also be important for those young people who will once take over these farms, as a result of these forests. The man is very sad as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia when he listens to things that are happening in the state forests at various ends of Slovenia. Let me mention a group of young people who were educated in one part of Slovenia in Postojnska, and of course those who trained them were there for several days, week or 14 days, I don't know exactly, they made clear what is happening to the forest, what is happening to the transport and where the timber that is owned by the state is driven. That wasn't in the paper. This has been said by people who can take care of their forests, and they don't care how we deal with a forest owned by the state. Today we are talking about when we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that these carriers, which bear the brunt of mainly those, as I have originally explained, who can take care of their forest, their wood and very few things happen to this forest. There is no hearing, even the proposal of the Government or coalition is to introduce a charter, perhaps the charter sounds good, but there are many more of these burdens on this charter, administrations than there were on the carrier. I firmly believe that MEPs and Members of the Modern Centre are in an increasingly difficult position because the area of the forest in Slovenia has taken on the lease of the smallest party in the coalition, this is the SD party. This has already proved to be a number of segments. That's a fact, and that's not right. Believe me, despite these natural problems that the Slovenian forest has, the skull, the winter unpleasantness, of course, there is one part of the story that our profession should have, and I am not saying that it does not solve, be even stronger if we did not care about this forest. On the other hand, we accept and impose burdens on people or owners, which I think is just the release of some artificial fog. That's why I'm going to support this amendment of the forest law myself. I am not saying that I will never say that it is best not to be complemented by a profession that we have in Slovenia that cannot be completed with all parliamentary groups. But the saddest part is that we talk about our natural wealth, which we don't care about very well, and then I listen to the National Assembly to systematically save. Once again, as a member of the National Assembly, I am convinced that we have a number of species in the area of the forest in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u115	I ask whether he wants to remain in the debate, or then in the concluding word. It's a debate. Then, in the course of the debate, a representative of the proposalr, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you. Allow me to respond to the words of my colleague Rabbit, but how for natural persons the carriers will no longer be allowed. In short, we now had owners of private forests and a Slovenian state company. Now you will separate the Slovenian state company, legal persons and natural persons. And yes, in your proposal for a law, there is a sixth paragraph of Article 4, which states that regardless of all other provisions, a document is not necessary for forest wood assortments, if loaded on vehicles, are transported by road and are subject to sale or gifts between two natural persons who do not carry out independent gainful activities on the market. In this case, the transport of forest wood assortments shall be accompanied by a declaration or other instrument. It's not without the carriages again. Instrument indicating the type and quantity of forest forest forest ranges, place and date, consignor, carrier and recipient of forest forest forest ranges. The declaration or other document shall be signed by the consignor and the consignee, who shall both be required to keep it for 5 years. This means that if John Novak and Franz Žnidaršič are to be replaced, they must still have all of this, whether they are giving or buying. But, as you know how most things happen, a legal person cooperates with a natural person, whether a natural person sells a legal or legal person to a natural person, and they will still need this new bookkeeping document of yours. And more and more as I listen to the debate of certain Members, I feel that we are really lucky in the SDS Group when we are in opposition because we are not being assisted by state officials who want to live some of their dreams through such or other political parties and to secure their official position. As far as systemic solutions are concerned, yesterday they had two systemic solutions, and once again they weren't good enough. We are now shutting down carriers, and again it is not a systemic solution, given that your law is not a systemic solution either, because if I read the opinion of forest owners who say there is much else to be arranged in this law, it is not regulated. And among the lines, Comrade Zajc somehow classified us as plagiarists. If we were plagiarists, that growth coefficient would have been easily thrown in, and probably the law would have been acceptable to you. But the fact that we're not plagiarists because we're shutting down de facto carriers, and you're just changing their name. So we're still on our own. And before I finish, then we get in the media how we're all about shutting down the vehicles. “The Coalition and the opposition are of the opinion that transporters for the removal of timber from the forest should be discontinued.” Yes, but part is missing – the SDS Group is de facto proposing the abolition of carriers, the coalition's parliamentary group through the Minister of Mag. Jewish, so it turns shipping into bookkeeping documents and gives different other information that people will have to have. It says here, both of them are proposing the abolition of the carriers. This is not true in the article if, of course, journalists read the bill. We probably all agree in our sense when we read here: “The main reason for their elimination is the need for rapid and effective forest rehabilitation, which has continued to damage the glands and then the skull”. But in addition to the decision and another instrument on the use and transport of forest wood assortments, your bookkeeping charter will still be needed. However, the journalist correctly stated: “The abolition of vehicles means a great administrative burden both for forest owners and the Institute of Forests”. I quote: “The suspension of carriers means less traceability of wood, says Jože Jeromel, owner of the forest and the company for the purchase and sale of wood, because in transport it is necessary to have a document proving where it comes from”. We will still have two documents within this chain of cutting and selling wood forest ranges. And you give the carrier a different name. And really again, instead of debirocratizing a Slovenian farmer, you are doing nationalisation and criminalisation of a Slovenian farmer or forest owner. On the other hand, we have a company called the Slovenian National Forests, which is not even touched today by this debate, except that they will be pleased with these penal provisions, because this money will go to them. You gave them a blank guarantee. Now all forest owners who will not be eligible will give penalties and penalties are quite great in your marriage and will receive another gift from private owners of Slovenian forests at the company. Dear representatives of the Government and representatives of coalition government parties, if you really want to stop carriers, you have elegant exports on Tuesday when voting. Support our law, which speaks only of the abolition of carriers, let us put on it the law that came to the National Assembly by the Government today, and let us resolve those matters that the Government considers necessary and the growth coefficient some other articles. Here I also refer to my colleague Škodnik, if you do not propose a public presentation of opinions in the SMC Group, we will. As an important issue such as private property intervention of 480,000 forest owners, consideration is needed here in the National Assembly, regardless of whether anyone agrees with the small proportion of people gathered in the Forest Owners Union or all. But when we talk about such important constitutional matter as private property, I think that those who press the button against the debate in the National Assembly on this subject have a problem living in Slovenia in 2016. So much for once. In short, I think you have an elegant proposal. I hope that you will sit down at the Ministry next weekend, talk, maybe run off on the minister's plan to see that the carriers are not abolished by government law, but are de facto terminated by the SDS proposal. Yes, I know, it is difficult sometimes as a coalition MP to press the button for a bill by the opposition, but in such matters that solve the problem of 480 thousand parcel owners in Slovenian forests, I think the solution is simple and we offer it to you on a tray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u117	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags, shall have the floor. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u118	Dear Members, honourable Members! I think that the first step is to go back and explain in more detail why traceability and the necessary care is actually going on. It is possible, however, to read for introduction the part in the leaflet of the European Union Regulation on timber to be implemented from 3 March 2013 from that period. “The illegal logging is a herb that does not comply with the laws and regulations of the country in which the logging is carried out. Illegal logging is a global problem that strongly affects the economy, the environment and society, has an impact on the economy, is loss of income and other benefits. The environmental effects of illegal logging are related to deforestation, climate change and loss of biodiversity. The social consequences of illegal logging are often linked to disputes over land and resources, the impoverishment of local and indigenous communities and armed conflicts. Because of illegal activities, wood and wood products are available on the market at lower prices, but they are the fruit of illegal logging and thus undermine the efforts of responsible economic operators. To combat trafficking in illegal timber, the EU adopted a new timber regulation in October 2010. The Regulation is one of the actions under the EU action plan for the enforcement of forest governance and trade legislation" and so on. In short, it's a regulation that makes this happen. However, it is implemented by various measures. I have already mentioned the system of due diligence, and another is the obligation of traceability. In short, wood varieties for operators placing wood on the market must be traceable at any time, meaning that they must have some documents or documents to prove their origin, where they were cut, from whom they are and so on. And that's what this is about. If we are now talking about the proposals that were here in the debate. Although we were expecting a debate today on the SDS's proposal, in which, otherwise, how they would solve it, it is not stated in detail. However, if we are already discussing the accounting documents, this should be explained and explained in an article of the law that will only be dealt with, namely, Article 1. »The Bookkeeping Charter is a charter as defined by Slovenian accounting standards. In relation to prudent accounting rules and fulfils the conditions of this law.” In short, it is not a new document if we went to see what this is according to Slovenian accounting standards, the bookkeeping charter, we would find that these are also shipping, trucks, takeovers, dispatches, in short, a family of documents traveling along with that wood. So that the law, a bill that is yet to be considered, does not introduce any new instrument, but the existing one that operators must consider under other legislation. Therefore, that opinion, which you have read somehow with regard to the opinions of economic operators, that they already have documents, yes, and therefore have one of these adaptations and that we include in the draft law that they will meet the conditions of the necessary due diligence and traceability. That's all this is about. In short, there are no new documents for those who trade. For smaller and for the purposes of their own cuts, we will say, root improvements and abbreviations. For our own needs, a decision of the Institute for Forests is sufficient, so that we once again have an existing document, but for trade between natural persons, which is to a lesser extent, special forms of documents are introduced which may be held by natural persons. Over a certain level, natural persons who are then professionally engaged in this activity must open up to other organisational forms of employment, such as the company, p. p. and so on, on the basis of other legislation, not legislation governing forestry or the transport of forest forest varieties. From this point of view, we could not agree that we are not using existing documents and that we are introducing new documents because this is not actually true. We also do not see any choice because, after all, the regulation is clear and binding on us to allow the movement of timber between economic operators without accompanying documents to prove the origin, purpose of the timber being loaded, because, ultimately, the European regulations and the research already done there show that these things need to be monitored and restricted. The illegal logging in state forests was mentioned several times. I believe that this is a broader problem, but given that we are talking about state forests under the authority of the Government, I would also once again call on anyone who has specific information on how to communicate them immediately, of course, to the police, but in another case, of course, we could also do so and we will investigate it without delay. Although the statements are not new, they often come to us, most often in very general forms, that this is after we ask where this happened, we find that this has happened, as the saying goes, in an unknown place, at an unknown hour, with unknown operators. We have also sent inspections to investigate several times, and we are continuing our efforts. So far, I have to say, we haven't been getting much talk, but we haven't been getting any useful information to prove it at the site. As regards the broader regulatory area governing forest management and management and management of all forests, the Ministry is following this and is expected to propose all necessary and feasible changes, as things also need to be integrated into an organisational and sustainable framework that will allow for the quickest and most effective implementation of the proposed legislation. That's all I'd have, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u119	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you, President, once again, for your word. At first, Mr State Secretary spoke of illegal logging and traceability, but we have a decision of the Institute for Forests, and illegal logging is being resolved differently, with the application and has nothing to do with the carrier, which we are talking about today. On the other hand, I have a feeling that there was nothing to say about traceability before these famous carriers were put in place, and then Europe said that traceability must be regulated, and we finally came up with one document that we had no traceability like we had, for example, at least the decisions of the Institute of Forests. By what you have just said, you basically gave a black dot to the Institute of Forests because you said, but before you did nothing, then we said the carrier will and now you have to work and follow the forest range from point A, so from the forest to the end. There's no way it's going together. Once again, we've got enough paperwork already. And if you were to follow your arguments, why did you then introduce the 17b, c, c, d, e, f, g article in 2013? Why? Now it's like you're shutting him down and giving him a different name. It's not true if [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u121	I see that there is still interest in the debate, given that time is running out. I take it this is the time. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposalr, Mr Tomaž Lisec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Every five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u122	President, thank you so much for saying this. And to all those who persist here on this subject, once again a nice greeting! I said before that the forest is our greatest treasure as water, and I think it is right to devote enough time to such important goods. I'd like to continue my debate because I've run out of time before. I've been challenged a few times in some way. In fact, it is true that the Law on the Management of State Forests, I will say, with very strong coordination, has been put under a long roof in Parliament, including with very strong support. With confidence, I hope to say that this is a good law regulating these 20% of state forests and introducing them, and I will now use this term, systematicity or coverage on this segment of forests again. Even these observations, where this guarantee is now, we continue to hear that the country has devoted 20 million guarantees and 20 million to creating a new opportunity in Slovenia. And this is what I continue to claim to be one of the historical laws that will be able to establish this forest wood chain into some value-added products. I would continue my thesis here that I am sorry or maybe even an opportunity for this good work that we have done on this segment of 20% of the state forests, literally, I will say, copy and put into the roofing law, I will say, the constitution of forest management, this is the Law on Forests. I have already stated here that this is a terminology that we have used, and I will not say that we have invented it in a new way in this process of coordination, so-called wood collection and processing centres. What does that mean? If you drive through Slovenia today, we can say that unfortunately there were no such centres. And now is a decisive opportunity for them to be established. If you're driving today, you can see here and there a bunch of loaded rodents, unshelled ones, and if you get a little deeper, you can find some skulls in there. What does that mean? That a large majority of these free warehouses are still unregulated, something along these road roads, which generate in many ways this economic damage, which we have estimated even a billion in the last 20 years. Instead of transporting wood to these centers, there's wood wreckage, storage, resorting and also transforming into some board or, I'm not going to say, a hard board or wood wool, it doesn't generally happen. The Law on the Management of State Forests makes this possible, and I believe that these funds will go this way. The government has now adopted one strategy that goes precisely this way. However, I would like these good practices of this law to be brought into law for all private forests. Now someone's gonna say, we have no right to interfere, but we have to point the right direction. Like the coach says to the athlete, you go there, we need to indicate options, solutions that also generate the private to act as we have defined in the Law on State Forests. This means that one day, I will not say churches, after, I will not say to any law extension that prescribes wood centres for wood harvesting and processing, will give them an opportunity to organise and, of course, a private initiative competes with this state-owned enterprise with some systemic solution. I'm just saying this because I'm putting the thesis that stepping up an attack on the lobular in recent years is also generated by the fact that wood is not getting out of the forest, it's not stored in the right places, and so on. I would also encourage this debate on the Committee. This is an opportunity for this law to be defined in the woods by the example of the practices we have introduced in the Forest Management Act. There are also roads, some other ways to maintain roads with us, by the example of the Austrians to introduce some taxes, a whole range of ideas that would show us by the example of neighbors to introduce into our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u123	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thanks again for the word. Once again a nice greeting to all present in the hall! I have a feeling today that we are talking about forests, like they are growing only in Slovenia. See, our neighbours Austrians, of course, have a very different attitude to their goods, but they often admit, and this will probably confirm that we have much more quality wood. Of course, Secretary of State, when I listen to you, I must admit that I do not doubt your expertise, but you have found many things from your minister who knows how to present things nicely, but in reality the situation is significantly different. The fact is that in Slovenia we have 20% of the forests owned by the state and 80% of those owned by the private sector. With this proposal, by putting an end to these carriers, we want to relieve those parts of the farmers who are well-governed with the forest and thus burden them only. Of course, if Slovenian farmers listen to us today, as well as respected representatives of the largest coalition party, we are actually trying only to get some fog in the air. On one segment, on this goods, which I have already mentioned 20 times today, this is Slovenian forest, we cannot find a common denominator. There's not a thousand of us in the National Assembly. We have expertise, we have farmers in Slovenia. Once again, for God's sake, I call on everyone to treat the state forests economically and to trust the Slovenian farmer. Not to be burdened with carriers, not to be burdened with leaves and a bunch of documents. Because this is what we are causing trouble for our people, but we are not achieving a goal. I ask once again, the Secretary of State, and everyone who works professionally at the Ministry: Are we just blowing up the fog? During one period, the Minister, who has been leading this ministry for many years, acknowledged that these carriers are, of course, unjustified. In the face of pressure, at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it has agreed, of course, that nature has also helped them to freeze. This same minister is looking for the left and right roads today. He can say this professionally if he was in the National Assembly today, that he would stop it, that he would not do it anymore, but with some document, and with some document, he is further burdening these Slovenian farmers. I think it is time for us to sober up in the field of Slovenian forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u125	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again, hello, everyone! I will conclude my debate today in a slightly different form, more calm, perhaps from a different point of view. I remember, a week ago we were kind of invited as a committee to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Food, there was talk about Slovenian bees and honey. What was so interesting that I wouldn't forget to think about it? There it was said that man would survive only four years after the bees died. If I'm wrong, please correct me. That's how I remembered. But now I'm going to make a comparison a little bit in the woods. If we can't control the woods, they'll disappear. I'm asking you and everyone here, and everyone else might be in front of the TVs: where are we going to get oxygen? People don't have a future for life if that happens. I suggest we share the work with each other, and we will all be pleased. First, take care of the forests. Second of all, we need to make wood into wood, and we're all gonna survive. Why? Because we're gonna get new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u127	A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition, has the floor. Marjan Podgoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u128	Chairman, thank you. I owe one explanation and it should only be for a short period of time – Why is the decision of the Institute for Forests not a suitable bookkeeping document for monitoring? The decision by its content is not intended to do so because the wood on a truck can be drawn from several decisions, and the decision itself can be drawn because there are very different sizes, quantities of wood on it, with a large number of trucks, takeovers, supplies and so on. So this is not about content that could meet the criteria, traceability on the transport route. In this respect, unfortunately, it is not appropriate, we have examined it, and in the work where it was made available, and this is used for its own purposes, the decision is applied. Regarding the content itself and the burden for the Slovenian farmer, see, we are talking about wood involved in legal traffic, which is supposed to be sold to someone. We will suggest that this is a bookkeeping charter that has been in force so far. These are the vans, the takeovers, the trucks. They shall be used to make payments between these two entities at all. But we can't stop them. There's something they need to follow for other reasons. And the contents of what's on the supplies are very similar to what's already on these existing documents. There's no other way. After all, some documentation must reach the buyer, the buyer must also sign at the time of acquisition that it has taken over there if the transfer is there, and on this basis a creditor-debtor relationship is established. Without documents, it is not possible, at least not in a regulated economy and among operators trading in more wood. However, significant reliefs have been introduced for smaller ones, as has already been said. We have also talked to several economic operators in the process of developing the proposal, and we have been confirmed in the vast majority that the document proposed here is this bookkeeping charter, which is called a bookkeeping document because it brings together the entire family of different documents, something they mostly have in their information systems. And in practice it also looks like one big merchant is buying from a farmer, he's measuring it there and, of course, he's sketching this charter, the farmer signs it, and the thing goes on. That's how much it would be worth to say in an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u129	Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you. Yeah, I agree. I can't do without the papers. But the problem is, there's too many. Last time I heard about the decision and the carrier or this new document of yours, let's put it together. I think why we're going to doctorate from five documents, and the decision will be, where this is necessary in Article 17, and the carrier will do this for something else. And let's make one document where you have the bottom page, and in the case of forest forest transport, you have to fill in two more lines. This is not the case, first of all, we need a decision to cut, but if we are going to go to the market with this, but with this cold with anything, for the first time, we will have to have a meter to watch, if there is more than ten centimeters of the thickness of the cold, we need a carrier, if there is less, we do not need it, if the natural person Janez sells to the physical person Jozet, nor do we need it if the first person sells it to a natural person, we need it or vice versa, Slovenian state forests are a third, I say, a black branch in this traffic with forested forest ranges. There's another point where we're different apart from what we say, as few documents as possible, you say as many documents as possible. Others, we say, are good forest owners, but they must be punished badly, and you claim that because we have bad, good punishment must also be punished. It is this philosophy, which not only shares the SDS in this law many times and one of the coalition parties. If someone is bad, they must all be punished or at least subject to certain criminal and criminal provisions. And we say, we have inspections and we have a job to save those who are violators. And once again, if you really wanted to shut down the carrier, you wouldn't write a law like that, because the fact is and I'm going to end it, our purpose is to debirocratise forest owners, and your purpose is to criminalize forest owners. And, of course, once again and for the last time, you have the possibility of a circuit, a hybrid law. We will not accept it for the first time, probably not the last time, to supplement the good solutions that are in our marriage with good solutions, which are at least two, three articles of your system law, and to make some enjoyable law, not some law where carriers will not be terminated, and on the other hand you will go to the slippery field of debate on constitutionality and property rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-21-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u131	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 25, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. Ten. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on 25. Ten. 2016 at 10 a.m.
