ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 24th meeting of the assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Zvonko Lah. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a constitutional act on Supplement III. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft constitutional law was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the National Assembly and received by a report from the Commission. I give the floor to a member of the Constitutional Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat, for the introduction of the report and the proposal for a constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Honourable President of the Government, members and members of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present a turbulent development in the preparation of the proposal in this time-consuming manner. This is the report on the preparation of the draft Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and on the preparation of the Proposal for a Decree proclaiming the Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission shall be held at its first emergency meeting on 25. 10 and 3. 11. 2016 discussed draft proposal for a constitutional law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was prepared on the basis of the adopted position of the National Assembly on the draft constitutional law amending the Constitution of 12. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the first urgent meeting, the members also adopted a proposal for a decree declaring the constitutional update of the Constitution in question. An interested public also took part in the constitutional audit debate within the second stage, both the civil initiative for Slovenia and freedom as a type of municipality and, on behalf of the public, in the constitutional review debate within the second stage, the invited Mr. Miran Lovrič, Mr. Leon Kremjar, Dr. Miloš Senčur and Mr Brane Golubović participated in the meeting. Draft Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia were prepared by the Section for the Right to Drinking Water. The proposed draft constitutional law is 24. Ten. 2016 expert group member Dr Marko Kambič provided an explanation of the abstention of the vote and some comments on the draft proposal for a constitutional law on Supplement III. Chapter 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Ten. 2016 produced by the Section for the Right to Drinking Water. The debate itself: The Constitutional Commission held a debate at its first emergency meeting on 25. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until the draft proposal, a mag was then identified. Alenka Bratušek as representative of the proposal to launch a constitutional audit proposal, which expressed satisfaction that the constitutional audit procedure had reached the moment when the Constitutional Commission adopted the content of the constitutional law proposal. In doing so, the proposers of the proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure express the hope that the comments of the local communities and their associations will not stop the procedure or even prevent the adoption of a constitutional amendment. It reiterated the purpose of supplementing the Constitution, which is to write down the constitutional right to drinking water, which is the right of all but not market goods. With regard to the fourth paragraph of Article 70a, she pointed out that it had arisen on the proposal of the section. The proposal was also followed by a meeting called Leo Kremjar, Miran Lovrič, Dr Miloš Senčur and Brana Golubović. In the debate on 25. 10. Afterwards, MEPs and invited representatives raised the following views. The text of Article 70a goes beyond the framework to be enshrined in the Constitution. The right to drinking water is already directly enshrined in the Constitution, which could also be highlighted in particular, but should not be combined with nationalisation, increased power of the State, the establishment of a new agency for this area, interference with the jurisdiction of the municipalities, which is not in the interests of the population, as it distances the right from users. The supply system is working well right now. Centralisation is the end of development, driven only by competition and the end of economic solutions in the public interest. The constitutional audit process has been going on for a long time, and all stakeholders have been involved for entry, but when a concrete solution to the record has been offered, there are countless concerns. In the adoption process, we have reached the point where it is necessary to count and determine whether or not Article 70a of the Constitution is to be adopted. It is necessary to listen to warnings from local governments, and the State should sometimes, on the basis of legal powers, cut down on the functioning of local self-government when irregularities occur. The panellist of the expert group, Dr Lojze Ude, responded to the debate by the invited representatives of local self-government and stressed that the latter had the opportunity to comment through their representatives in the State Council at the very beginning of the constitutional debate. With regard to the concerns relating to Article 70a, paragraph 4, he presented a possible intervention in the text in order to make this paragraph read: The provision of drinking water and household water to the population is provided by the State through a non-profit public service. In view of the continuation of the meeting of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Commission on this site suspended the debate and informed those present that 30 would continue. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments to the draft proposed constitutional law were tabled by the Ambassador of Magi. Alenke Bratušek and SMC, Desus, SD, ZL and unrelated Members 30. 11. 2016 before the meeting, which was also amended at the sitting by the amendment at its 30th session. 11. Let me also summarise the opinion of the Local Interest Group and the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council of 3. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. An interested group of local interests and the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council gave a written opinion on the draft proposal for a constitutional law. The Commission supports the proposed amendment to the Constitution by excluding the supply of drinking water from the market and by directing the supply of water to the public. In doing so, they support the alternative text of Article 70a and have only a few concerns: in the third paragraph, the phrase "in this part" would be deleted; in the fourth paragraph, they propose that the text should be amended to read, "the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided by the State through self-government local communities through a non-profit public service". In the first follow-up to the first emergency session, the state councillor mag. Stevo Ščavnicar also orally presented the written opinion. Members of the Committee and members of the Constitutional Commission, or alternate Members, also responded to the debate. Letter and first signed under the proposal to initiate the constitutional audit procedure in question. Alenka Bratušek withdrew the latter according to the amendment of five parliamentary groups pursuing the same objectives as she did with the amendment. Representatives of the five parliamentary groups who are before the meeting of the Constitutional Commission on 3. 11. 2016 have tabled an amendment, supported the proposal by a member of the expert group Dr. Franc Grad with regard to the amendment of Article 70a, paragraph 4. They therefore tabled an amendment during the meeting. Members of the opposition suggested that, also due to open questions, the analysis and cost assessments of the meeting should be discontinued and continued when the relevant materials are prepared. Following the adjournment of the first meeting of the first session on 3. 11. On the basis of the consultation, the President concluded the debate, as there was no further desire to discuss it. After the conclusion of the debate, the Constitutional Commission moved to a decision following the reasonable application of Article 181(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The decision was taken when at least 13 members of the Constitutional Commission — a two-thirds majority, thirteen of the nineteen members of the Commission — voted for it. First, the members moved on to the section one decision. Because the MP is a magician. Alenka Bratušek at Session 3. 11. 2016 has withdrawn the amendment, the Constitutional Commission has moved to decide on the amended amendment of the SMC, Desus, SD, ZL and unrelated Members, which changes the version and the basic text of the first section as proposed by the section. Members or alternate Members have adopted the necessary 13 votes for, against, no one, the amendment that has been stated: in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a new article 70a is added for article 70, which reads as follows: "70.a., the right to drinking water. Everyone has the right to drinking water. Water resources are publicly good at governance. Water resources serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not marketable goods. Since the amendment was adopted in its entirety to amend both the version and the basic text of the first section of the draft draft constitutional law, no further decision was required on the first section and the members of the Constitutional Commission had therefore moved to a decision on the second section. Since no amendments had been tabled for section two, the members had moved to a decision and the proposed text of section two had been adopted by 13 votes in favour, no one opposed. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 181 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the members also voted on the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole and adopted by a two-thirds majority of all members: 13 for, none against. His content is as follows. Constitutional law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: I. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 33/91-I, 42/97, 66/2000, 24/2003, 69/2004, 68/2006 and 47/2013) the following Article 70a is added after Article 70a: Article 70a, Right to drinking water. Everyone has the right to drinking water. Water resources are publicly good at governance. Water resources serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not marketable goods. The supply of drinking water and household water to the population is provided by the State through self-governing local communities directly and without profit. II. The laws governing the provisions of the new 70a of Article 70a of the Constitution should be brought into line with this constitutional law within 18 months of its entry into force. This Constitutional Law shall enter into force by announcing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Without discussion, the Constitutional Commission adopted, with 13 votes in favour, without a vote against, a draft Proposal for a Decree on the proclamation of the Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and proposes to the National Assembly that, after consideration, if that constitutional law is adopted and formal conditions are met, it should also be adopted. The motion for a decree will be submitted by the President of the Constitutional Commission to the National Assembly if and when the conditions for the declaration of constitutional law will arise. The Constitutional Commission unanimously, 12 votes in favour, no one against, also decided to propose to the President of the National Assembly that the National Assembly consider a proposal for a constitutional law at the November meeting. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	I give the floor to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, for the introduction of the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! My vision of Slovenia is green Slovenia. This is Slovenia, which is prudently exploiting its many natural properties and caring for its environment; Slovenia, which is energy self-sustaining through renewable resources; Slovenia, which is recognized in the world as the capital of green tourism. My vision of Slovenia is also a modern Slovenia; Slovenia, which proactively addresses the challenges of the future. Water protection is a key theme of the future, for we know that water is an irreplaceable strategic asset without which life on our planet is not possible. Water is the source of life. Increasing population, climate change and the ever-increasing interest of corporations in this vital goods require greater protection of our water and Slovenian water resources. I believe that it is our common desire that every citizen of our country always have the right to drinking water. The fact that we can drink tap water almost everywhere in Slovenia is not self-evident. It is a great Slovenian privilege, which we must preserve not only for us, but also for our coming generations. In the spring of 2014, before entering political life, I wrote in the magazine Legal practice: "Water is our wealth, on which any political and other backstage games and professional and similar greater prejudices and mistakes in the future are totally unacceptable." I congratulate the National Assembly, which, after many months of coordination, has reached the Joint Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that we have taken enough time to protect one of the most important Slovenian natural goods and together have sought a consensual way to protect water, the current gold of the 21st century, at the highest legal level with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, I welcome the fact that all parliamentary parties have listened not only to the constitutional profession but also to civil society when coordinating the constitutional text. Solutions born from close dialogue and cooperation between the profession, politics and the public concerned are generally best for people and the country. Our green Slovenia is one of the most watery countries in the world. Slovenian water is of quality and will certainly awaken the appetites of foreign countries or multinationals in the future due to its value. The more the water becomes a rare asset, the more the pressures increase, the more we must not give up. We also had this in mind in the Government when we negotiated the CETA trade agreement. The Slovenian Government was the only government within the European Union that required the definition of protection of water resources within the agreement. The text of the joint declaration thus includes a special chapter entitled Water. CETA also reserves the right of the parties to decide for themselves how to use and protect water resources due to Slovenia's efforts. This shows our government's clear commitment to maintaining Slovenia's green, and that we are working for the benefit of citizens and citizens and our craftsmen to preserve Slovenian water and water resources. In fact, by doing so, we are plowing the ice in the international community at the same time. In the European Union, only Slovakia has drinking water and its water resources protected at constitutional level, while the other countries only protect water at legal level. Slovenia will thus become an example of a country that is taking a responsible step towards the future by adopting constitutional amendments. Respectable assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! I am pleased to note in article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that everyone in Slovenia has the right to drinking water, that water resources are our public good, that is managed by the State, that water resources are a priority and sustainable service for the provision of drinking water and household care to the population, and in this part they are not marketable goods to ensure that the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided by the State through self-governing local communities directly and without profit. Your Honor! In my name and on behalf of the whole Government, I express my full support for the adoption of this constitutional law, so that at the highest legal level we can protect water, our life and strategic goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On Tuesday and yesterday we discussed the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the coming and following year. For a large majority of the time, there was one, more than two ministers, and there was no one else, and this was the government's original document or even the government's original document, which dictates policies for the future. Today there is practically a whole government here, I think there are only two ministers missing, in these introductory five minutes, which I think is fine, but I would expect that also yesterday and the day before, when we dealt with that victory, that victory that they call the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Tomorrow we are discussing a report on an investigator dealing with a bank hole – the government has not announced a minute of time. Not a minute! When I asked the college why the government in such a big criminal story as a bank hole doesn't announce the time, you said, the government will decide for itself. With a parliamentary case that took place here also on the proposal of one of the parliamentary groups, the Government is teaming up, it takes time to take the picture; when it comes to talking about the documents it submitted to the legislative process or when it comes to talking about the criminal story, there is no one on the government team involved. Here in the government team, Mr Klemenčič, former Chief Investigator, who examined this bank hole, prepared a report for someone where nothing is actually happening, and no one, either, takes some time to explain anything about the progress of the commission of inquiry and the detection of banking crime. In this way, it is scandalous to represent the legal and social state, Mr President of the Government, I hope to say this, because you choose pear themes, phototerms; where some serious work is needed, quality work, where something needs to be done at the constitutional level – including budget, for example – is missing people, as if there is no one anywhere. I propose, Mr President of the National Assembly, that you also, at this parliamentary-government and coalition level, ensure that the Government will also be involved in the important agenda items – the budget, the bank hole investigator – and that there is no shortage of this person representing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We would also like to know their position in the bank hole and I suggest that you also focus on your activities in this context.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	In the political space, each person may have his or her own views and opinions and the parliamentary procedure allow for an expression of this and not prejudice it, but the misuse of procedural to express these matters, although they can be clearly expressed in the next process, is unacceptable to me, so I will try, because in the process of the Government at this point cannot defend itself, to say what is procedurally important. For the first time, it is procedurally important that they have been at all times and that all the conditions are met so that the individual points can be dealt with and the participation or non-participation of the Government is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Practice, at least at the point of the Commission of Inquiry, have never provided for the participation of the Government or any other position already in the sense that the Government would announce a time when Parliament is dealing with an eminent parliamentary practice that is always led by opposition parties, i.e. these investigative commissions. This is also a classic matter and has always been in place in our system. Participation in the budget was one that ensured work, and this work was done in this House, and what else is your position. I'm just saying that you've used this procedurally to express your political position this time, and I'm saying that's not right. I'm not gonna achieve anything by giving you a warning about this or anything, which is why I'm not even going to try this way. I'm just finding out that this happened, and that's the fact. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	Your Honor! On 25 June 1991, the Republic of Slovenia became an independent and independent state, and on 23 December of the same year our Constitution was adopted. We are therefore pleased to welcome the 25th anniversary of the adoption of this human rights-based constitution with such an important event as the introduction of the right to drinking water into the Constitution. And if the previous term of office of the National Assembly was marked by an economic and financial crisis, and thus by international pressure associated with the entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule, as well as the limitation of the right to a referendum, let this mandate mark the protection of our sovereignty and our natural wealth, that is, water. That drinking water is immediately behind clean air or oxygen, the most important good for life on earth will really be realized only when it begins to lack it, but the problem is that it will be too late at that time, so we must act today. We must also think of our children, our craftsmen, that they too will have at least the same conditions of access to drinking water as we have today. We are witnessing climate change and the growth of the world's population, so mankind is increasingly facing four major problems: water, food, energy and space. The water problem is the most basic problem. There is only a few percent of freshwater available on our planet, and there is much less freshwater available. Some warn that drinking water today represents only 1% of the total amount of water in the world. Increasing population numbers and the threat of climate change can lead to a major global water crisis when water is used to date. That is why water will mark the period in which we are now living. If we've faced oil crises so far, they're promising us for water. The problem is that water, unlike oil, has no alternative, we cannot replace it with another source, so water will be the strategic raw material of the 21st century or, if you want, oil of the 21st century. Today, almost 18% of the world's population do not have access to drinking water, or 800 million people in numbers, and by 2050 the demand for water will increase by 50%, according to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This will mean enormous pressure on the use of water resources. In addition, scientists warn that already today the largest groundwater stocks are disappearing at incredible speeds and that aquifers are from India, China, the United States, and, if you will, France in the European Union at the breaking point. Even in the European Union, it is estimated that 20 million citizens or residents do not have access to quality water and adequate sanitation services. And while the European Union is considered a good supply of water, many regions face water shortages. The European Union therefore provides assistance in building infrastructure for drinking water and waste water systems in the European Union and in providing basic sanitation and hygiene services worldwide. The lack of water will lead to social unrest, political and armed conflicts and, last but not least, mass migration, which we have witnessed in part. Historians warn that a few thousand years ago, water disputes have been known, but the number of conflicts has risen rapidly in the last two or three centuries. If there were 13 serious water disputes in the 19th century, there were 101 in the 20th century and 108 in the early 21st century. I also recognize the use of water as a key challenge for the future of mankind, and the General Assembly has recognised the right to drinking water as a human right, which is also essential for the realization of all human rights. In 2010, the United Nations adopted a declaration stating that the right to safe and clean drinking water and sanitation is an essential human right to the full enjoyment of the right to life. Slovenia is rich in water resources. According to the quantity of water per capita, we are ranked among the first 20 countries in the world and in Europe as third countries. In Slovenia we have no problems with drinking water stocks, but this must not be the reason we are not thinking about these problems today. The average annual amount of precipitation in Slovenia is slowly decreasing. We have a nice winter, resulting in lower watercourses of rivers, groundwater and free soil water. For the time being, we do not have to be afraid, but we still have to manage water resources more responsibly. We must be aware that every citizen of Slovenia on average consumes 150 litres of water per day from the water network, and it takes as much as 3,000 litres to produce enough food for it. According to an assessment by the World Health Organisation, an individual needs to meet the most basic needs of life between 50 and 100 litres of water; in the European Union, this consumption is between 200 and 300 litres and 15 % of the world's population has to be satisfied with five litres of water per day. A few years ago, we thought that water was owned by no one and therefore owned by all of us, and drinking water supply was the responsibility of the state or local communities. Then the discussions on water privatisation and drinking water proved that such perceptions of water were not so self-evident. Water, as a vital asset gradually gaining ever greater value, is also extremely attractive to corporations and multinationals who, in the exploitation of water resources, see great opportunities for profit and therefore have an interest in privatising this strategic good. Large corporations claim that water is a foodstuff, but as each food must have its price on the market and water should also be charged because it is a rare good. Therefore, it would also be logical to set a price for water, and then people would deal with water more carefully and consume it less. Therefore, in the SMC, once again, we would like to draw attention to the citizens' initiative Right to water, when nearly 1.7 million Europeans, including some 20,000 people in Slovenia, have been invited by the European Commission to propose legislation to ensure access to drinking water for all citizens and to prohibit the privatisation of water supply services. The initiative was directed against the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the EU Council on the award of concession contracts to be adopted by the European Parliament, which unfortunately was also supported by the then Slovenian government. While the Directive spoke of the development and modernisation of public services, the strengthening of the European internal market and economic growth, the private sector, at the same time, opened wide doors to the market. The proposal for a directive provided for a mandatory publication in the Official Journal of the European Union of public tenders for the award of concession contracts worth more than or equal to EUR 5 million. The instigators therefore called on the Commission to take three measures. Firstly, ensure access to water and sanitation for all citizens of the European Union. They should then exclude water supply and water resource management from the rules of the internal market and liberalisation and strengthen efforts to achieve universal access to water and sanitation throughout the world. The Commission has, in its work which also liberalises the management of water resources, stepped down and pledged to pursue consistent implementation of European water legislation and to inform and inform that it will launch a public consultation on the improvement of the Drinking Water Directive, to examine the idea of a water quality benchmark system, to promote innovative approaches for development assistance and the exchange of good practices between Member States and to advocate general access to safe drinking water and sanitation as a priority area for sustainable development. The Commission will therefore remain neutral with regard to national decisions on the ownership of water supply companies. The Commission recognises water as a public good and essential for the lives of citizens and the management of water resources as the responsibility of Member States and local authorities. The Commission is therefore not proposing or requiring Member States to privatise water supply services in any way. All these differences clearly show that water resources management and water use must not be left to the free market. Water belongs to all of us. There is a need to take into account the common, this is a public interest, not a partial interest. For fair and sustainable water management, we need the highest level of protection. However, legal protection of water resources and universal access to drinking water do not provide sufficient protection against the possible privatisation of public and drinking water households. Since water will be the most important natural good in the future, which is a daily human need, we believe in the Modern Centre Party that water resources with the highest possible responsibility must be protected in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe in the SMC that this decision is one of the most important decisions to be taken by the National Assembly in this mandate, as the consequences of including the right to drinking water among constitutional rights will be the most evident in the future when water becomes a key asset of life. In addition to forests, water wealth is our most important renewable natural resource. By entering the right to drinking water into the Constitution as fundamental human rights and water resources management as a public good, the Republic of Slovenia will become one of the few Member States of the European Union with such a provision in the Constitution or only another European Union country protecting water resources at the highest level and the fourth in the world. By this means, the Republic of Slovenia will inform the European Union and the whole world that access to drinking water is everyone's right to have water resources owned by the community and managed or owned by no one. Drinking water for the care of the population and households is public goods and not market goods, and water supply is a key public service that is not subordinated to making profits. In this place, we would like to reiterate our thanks to the Civil Initiative in the Modern Centre Party and at the same time to all the residents of the Republic of Slovenia who signed a petition for the entry of drinking water into the Constitution, as this commitment opened a lively constitutional debate, with their creative cooperation on the Constitutional Commission and their support for our joint efforts to protect one of the most important natural assets that have contributed to success. As regards the last text of the constitutional law adopted by the Constitutional Commission, we would like to clarify that the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, when preparing a proposal for a position on the draft constitutional law decided by the National Assembly this summer, has been very attentive to the objectives and purposes of the recording of this right and has reached the revisions of the original proposal. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we have decided to withdraw from some, as we estimate that the Constitutional Law will achieve those objectives and objectives without them. As we have already pointed out at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, the constitutional law must be read with explanation. Since we have formed the latter together with the expert group and other amendments that have been adopted by the Constitutional Commission, we are confident that the constitutional law will be interpreted in accordance with our expectations. In this presentation, therefore, it would focus only on the fourth paragraph of Article 70a, which was the most controversial and amended. At first, the proposal of the expert group defined the country as the only one responsible for drinking water supply and further stipulated that the public service of drinking water supply from the country would be transferred to the self-governing local communities. Therefore, the State of Water Resources for Water Supply to the Population and Households exploits or can transfer this activity to the management of local communities. The latter were not agreed by the representative associations of local communities and the Council of State, which warned that the provision of drinking water to the population and the exploitation of water resources serving this supply should be carried out with public service, without prejudice to the original competence of the municipalities to regulate public water supply and should not lead to the centralisation of a well-functioning system. Therefore, a compromise proposal was adopted on the proposal of SMC, Desus, SD, ZL and unrelated Members, as well as with suggestions from members of the section, which provides that the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided by the State through self-government local communities directly and without profit. This compromise proposal also leaves a fundamental purpose of this provision untouched. The supply of drinking water and water to households is provided directly in the form of a compulsory public non-profit service, meaning that water supply as a service is not a market activity and is exempted from market rules and the internal market of the European Union. This also means that water supply will not be provided through concessions. Nor will these services be provided by private individuals through public-private partnerships and public service providers will have to be in 100 % of public ownership. However, the aim of the non-profitability of the public service is that the price will have to be determined in such a way as to enable the public service to operate, the necessary investment in development and so on, and the potential surplus to be generated in the implementation of the public service will only be earmarked for the purposes of water supply. The owner or partner of the public service provider will not be able to dispose of it freely and make it available for other purposes. It's over. Let water be the source of life and the justice of all, not the source of the wealth of a handful. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the proposed constitutional law will achieve these objectives. We will reach them by identifying water resources as public good, defining the Community way of managing water resources, ensuring that everyone has the right to drinking water, that water resources serve people and households as a priority and sustainable service, protecting water resources from overexploitation, ensuring their sustainable management and preventing the possibility of privatisation, ensuring both general and specific water use, while also allowing the implementation of the principle of free economic initiative and the non-profit management of public service and drinking water through local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I am gathering a very nice greeting for all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the SDS. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is the foundation where, as in politics in mature society, in democracy, in people of political culture, acts are counted; actions, not words. And the image doesn't count. For if we take away the image or look at the image that is here today and the acts, then the matter will be very unpleasant. Today, I am followed by the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by a constitutional lawyer, as if with this image it wants to give an impression of how it advocates constitutionality, how important this is. Well, as far as she's concerned, we saw her yesterday. For the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is obviously unconstitutional, adopted it in an unconstitutional manner and with unconstitutional content. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! For if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and the coalition that supports it - respected constitutionality, then of course it would appoint an appropriate body to give an opinion, in line with the constitutional novelty of the fiscal rule - this was not, therefore, a constitutional principle, and would place on the table a budget in which it would be consistent with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 148, cover virtually all benefits and expenses and, of course, should be balanced. Were they? They were not, ladies and gentlemen, because there are still negotiations with the public sector, and you have accepted what is called vaporware in the computer – a virtual budget that is worthless, which is unconstitutional, because it does not cover all the revenues and expenditure of this country. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the real relationship between the existing coalition and the constitution and, of course, its government. It's sad. But if anyone thinks it doesn't matter, remember last year when the same government released half a million migrants through Slovenia in an apparently unconstitutional and illegal way. Not even in accordance with international acts which the Slovenian Constitution says are directly applicable. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the real relationship of those who are taking pictures here today with the Slovenian Constitution to the actual respect of this constitution and legality in this country! All that's going on today is really just the pierre, just the public appearance, the sand in the eyes, nothing else. For water, if you are reading the Slovenian Constitution – and all who know something about constitutional law, we know that it must be read as a whole – has been protected as a natural resource so far, for the 70th Article of the Constitution protects natural wealth. Even when he is afraid, this is a socialist reflex, he says to terrible foreigners and privateists: The law can determine that natural wealth can also be exploited by foreign people and set the conditions for exploitation. That is to say, unless the law provides otherwise, if the law protects it, it already has constitutional protection here. And more; in article 72, we are talking about a healthy living environment and its constituent part is, no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, also drinking water. And what it says – the state of concern So it must care for a healthy living environment and to this end the law sets out the conditions and ways to carry out economic and other activities and so on. [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, the water is already protected! If anything has been wrong with drinking water so far, it is the one who had authority; again, these are the ones who are sitting right behind me today and taking pictures. I would like to recall how this story began, with the endless tirade of media pumping about how terrible foreigners bought and owned Slovenian drinking water sources and talked about Heineken and some other companies mentioned it. What you accept today doesn't touch it at all. It only touches the sources of drinking water for households, which, of course, only further confirms what I said: it is pure pear! Water, drinking water and a healthy environment are already protected in the Constitution, only reading it needs to be respected and implemented. Everything we're doing today. is just an addition to what already exists. Ask yourself when you're defending and selling what's on the table today, like I don't know what's going on, why you're not being consistent with yourself. If it is written in the constitution that everyone has the right to drinking water, then let it be written that everyone has the right to air to breathe and then we will eventually get there: and every girl has the right to a shouldered boy and every boy has the right to an honorable virgin. In short, there are some standards that belong to the constitution and some standards that are already covered in the constitution and do not have to be written in particular – except of course if you want to paint like this. But the actual content is not here, because water as a good has already been protected the moment we formed and adopted the Slovenian Constitution; because it is a natural resource because it is an integral part of a healthy living environment and the state has the duty to preserve it as part of a healthy living environment and, of course, also as a natural resource. For this reason, neither will we support the proposed constitutional changes, nor will we oppose them. What's accepted is already in the constitution. We regret, however, that all that I used to say is emphasized in words and made some impression, but in actions the constitution is beaten. This is a sad fact that we are witnessing to him here and now. Finally, I am glad that those of you who mentioned this noticed that in the same sentence, when the UN resolution was talking about healthy drinking water, the issue of toilets or toilets was also covered. When you put this into the constitution, I must say it would be very interesting if the government came to take pictures like this. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Constitutional Act on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Desus Group is one of the signatories to the proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. With this proposal, we wanted to define water at constitutional level and access to water as a general and fundamental right and to prevent the privatisation of water resources and the treatment of water as market goods. In order to ensure all of the above, water supply must be carried out as a non-profit public service. According to our assessment, we are making a proposal for a constitutional law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are on track to achieve the objectives mentioned above if the proposal is adopted today. Given that, in principle, no one opposes our water resources being protected from commercialisation, I expect the proposal to receive the required number of votes today. However, a number of different opinions emerged on how this content should be incorporated into the Constitution. We must admit that the debate at all the meetings of the Constitutional Commission has been useful, especially those by the associations representing the municipalities, water providers, because they have revealed their concerns about how water supply will be delivered in the future, who will implement it, what will happen to the existing water supply systems and so on. Therefore, in cooperation with the Section of Constitutional Lawyers and the Civil Initiative, which was an incentive to record water protection in the Constitution, the members of the Constitutional Commission have prepared such a proposal to supplement the Constitution, which, according to our assessment, eliminates the majority of complex municipalities and contractors. Following the amendments adopted at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, the text of Article 70a of the Constitution, in the opinion of the Desus Group, was completed by removing the concerns of the municipalities that the State is interfering with their competences and undermining the existing system. Thus, the first three paragraphs of Article 70 of the Constitution stipulate that everyone has the right to drinking water, that water resources are public good in the management of the country and that water resources serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households and are not marketable goods in this part. There were no major concerns on either side in this part. Most of the discussions were opened by the fourth paragraph, where it was initially stipulated that the supply of drinking water and water to households was provided by the State, so after all the talks, we confirmed the text which stipulated that the supply of drinking water and water to households was provided by the State via the self-government local communities directly and without profit. In particular, I must say that I very much understand it, the Union of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Union of the Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, that the logic of the market is becoming dominant in some of our laws and that this could also happen with drinking water, of course, is very appropriate. The last case that reminded us of us most directly in this constitutional debate was the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities, which completely forgot about people. According to the assessment of the Desus Group, this compromise proposal improved the entire content to such an extent that the proposal today should receive the necessary majority. Thus, the main task remains to the State which ensures the exercise of the right to water in such a way that it is accessible to all citizens and is achieved through local communities, which conducts water supply as a non-profit activity. In the Desus Group we are pleased with the proposal. We must be aware that drinking water cannot be replaced with anything. Nor should we keep our eyes closed to the fact that climate change, the rapid growth of the global population and the consequent increase in agricultural needs will cause us to face water shortages, which will increase the pressure on existing water resources. The assessment of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, i.e. the OECD, is that the demand for water will increase by 55% by 2050. Although Slovenia is in a slightly better position in this respect. However, the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution does not mean that we do not have good legislation in our country in the areas of water protection, drinking water supply and quality water supply. However, laws can change very quickly and easily for each government individually. However, the Constitution cannot change so easily, a two-thirds majority of Members and Members are required and therefore the entry into the Constitution is important. Therefore, in the opinion of the Desus Group, the Constitution is the highest legal act that offers the best protection of the drinking water rights of all the inhabitants of Slovenia, provided that the articles are duly recorded. With universal access to drinking water, the economic exploitation of water resources, such as the filling of bottled water, the use of non-alcoholic beverages and so on, will still be enabled. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that by changing the Constitution we will not prevent the implementation of the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative. By allowing certain water resources to remain available to the economy under certain conditions, we allow our country to take advantage of the competitive advantage that we have as an extremely rich country with water resources. While water resources are still available to economic exploitation, it is also essential that the supply of drinking water to the population be clearly recorded. Other forms of exploitation may be made possible only when sustainable and uninterrupted supply of drinking water is provided. As can be seen from the point of view, we will be Members and Members of the Desus Group of the draft Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia were unanimously supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, the esteemed Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Civilisational development and the globalisation of the community we are part of have led us to the point where we need to protect people from the free hand of the market, including the most basic good – water as a human right of origin. Fortunately, at least this time, I hope in the majority, we are aware of the importance of access by residents to drinking water and, as a consequence, the necessity that the country or the local community governs this area in a non-profit manner, so that we place the right of the community to quality drinking water and to an adequate quality of life above the right to profit, if you wish, also over the rights and interests of international corporations. The right to drinking water will therefore be defined in the Constitution as one of the fundamental human rights, which means that, in addition to being self-sustaining, it will be protected at the highest level, i.e. constitutional level. This is especially important because access to quality drinking water today often seems to us to be a state of mind and, therefore, water is often treated wastefully, irresponsiblely and unsuspectingly. And yet the awareness of sustainable use of resources is changing. Perhaps also because we are increasingly faced with various natural disasters, when many households, and sometimes all regions and countries, are running out of drinking water overnight and it is therefore imperative to implement measures to prevent risks to human health, animals and the wider environment due to the consumption and presence of disputed water. The natural resource without which there is no life must be protected in this way, and it is increasingly confirmed that right now is the right time for special care and attention, because today, at least in Slovenia, we do not yet live in a lack of drinking water, but the global warming process can change this situation in any way quickly and substantially. And this, for example, allows for the technology of drinking water production to be used in households as well. However, we must be aware that the technologically processed water is certainly not and will not be comparable to the water that we have available in Slovenia today. Awareness of the importance of access to drinking water is thus strengthened from year to year not only in Slovenia but also in the wider European space. The latter also confirm signatures under the European Citizens' Initiative, which strives to achieve a universal approach to water and sanitation throughout the world. Perhaps today's decision - hopefully positive - will encourage another country or a series of them to take a similar step; a step towards sustainable nature care, not just to constantly worry about profit growth. The proposal for a constitutional law that we are considering today differs from the proposal put forward, but this is no reason to oppose it. On the contrary! The Constitutional Law fully follows the fundamental ideas and solutions contained in the original proposal, with its constitutional definition and also its placement in the specific article significantly improving it. It is so important for the Social Democrats that the Constitution explicitly defines that water resources are public good, which means that they must also be accessible to everyone. In order to ensure priority and sustainable use of water resources for the care of the population, the country is responsible for the supply of water resources and the provision of water to local self-government communities in a direct and non-profit manner. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that we will only take the first step today, because in the Constitutional Law there is also an obligation to supplement and comply with the Constitution within eighteen months of this right being incorporated into the Constitution. Without further ado, there is still so much work to be done to protect the key raw material of the future, perhaps even the basic building block of a new global balance. The Social Democrats will therefore support the proposal for the entry of water rights into the Constitution, and we would like to thank all of us, regardless of the interest or clientele that you have participated in the process to date and have helped all of us together to protect this fundamental right, this fundamental raw material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	The President of the Government, ministers and ministers apologise for their absence of this point due to the regular meeting of the Government. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the basic postulate of the Constitutional Law to III. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Drinking water is a human right. And drinking water as a human right must also be accessible to all under universal, that is, equal conditions. This is the goal that we want to achieve by adopting this law, and two more must be done to achieve this: to prevent the privatisation of water resources and to define drinking water as a non-profit public service that does not allow profit forging in the supply of this basic good of life. The provision must therefore be provided directly by the municipalities, without the possibility of granting concessions and without the possibility of providing care to private companies. This was also a clear request from the United Left and the reason why we contributed to the opening of the constitutional change procedure. Since all our requests in the form of amendments have already been taken into account in the position of the National Assembly and since they are also taken into account in the final text of the Constitutional Law, it is clear that we are achieving this objective, we will, of course, support the law. When considering proposals by those who do not support the right to drinking water in the Constitution, we have heard arguments that the record is not necessary because there is no problem with the supply of drinking water in Slovenia, and that the supply of drinking water is already protected in the legislation in force. We cannot agree with these arguments in the United Left. It is true that we currently have sufficient water resources in Slovenia to allow for smooth supply of drinking water for households, and that our legislation on the protection of drinking water rights is currently exemplary. These arguments, however, are often accompanied by a word at the moment. However, if we put this problem in a broader international context, we can quickly see that the supply of drinking water can be threatened soon. The fact is that international corporations see drinking water as an excellent source of profits and that there are already large profits in this account in a number of countries. How great the appetites are after the privatisation of water resources not only in the already poor countries of the third world, but also in Europe, we have seen most clearly in 2012 when a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union was almost adopted to open the doors to international corporations and satisfy these appetites. The adoption of the directive, which was then also supported by Slovenia, then prevented strong public opposition. Over 1.5 million Europeans and Europeans supported the petition against the directive and against the possibility of privatisation of water resources in a short time. However, the European Union's step back did not last long. If the privatisation of water resources, due to public opposition, could not be made more difficult to open the door by means of a directive, the door shall be opened for it in all the modern free trade agreements. This is probably one of the reasons why both negotiations and the whole process of adopting such harmful agreements take place in complete secrecy. The CETA agreement has been elaborated. All procedures concerning CETA were strictly secret until now, virtually no one knew what was in it and what the extent of the negative consequences would be if adopted. Only a strong translation of the free trade agreement could be read before Slovenia agreed to sign it. And all that many have been hinting at for the entire duration of the negotiations and all the secret documents that have been leaking to the public have proved to be true. CETA also opens the door to the privatisation of water resources. The agreement itself allows for the privatisation of public services and also includes the provision of drinking water. Today, the top policy convinces us that this is not the case and that water resources are protected in the common declaration. However, if interests were detected and the protection of water resources truly ensured, the prohibition of the privatisation of water resources would certainly be included in the text of the CETA agreement alone. The joint declaration is nothing more than a very bad attempt to reassure the public, which overwhelmingly opposes the signing of the agreement. The same is true for the free trade agreement with the United States of America. These negotiations and the related procedures are also strictly secret, and the public can't know anything here either. But since CETA is only an experimental rabbit and a general for TTIP, it is clear that the privatisation of water resources will certainly be part of that agreement. It is clear from everything that the Constitution needs to be changed today, although it may seem that there are no problems with drinking water supply at this time. The protection of water resources and the definition of drinking water as human rights at the constitutional level is the highest security that we can accept right now. Supporters of the privatisation of public services and of water resources, as well as supporters of the full withdrawal of the country from the economy, even though the provision of public services is already too much in this composition of the National Assembly. Perhaps even enough that legislation, which still protects water resources and supplies for the population, can be changed overnight and, above all, most importantly, by the common majority. The change of constitution is the only one who can stop it right now. Additional arguments in favour of amending the Constitution are also the current picture in the field of drinking water supply and data from Arsa on groundwater status. The provision of drinking water is a public service in the municipality, and the form of a public service provider is determined by the municipality. The municipalities have the opportunity to directly manage the waters themselves, to impose the task of managing the company or to grant a concession to the private service. According to data for 2014, the public water supply service was provided in 28 cases in a directorial establishment, in 54 cases via a public undertaking and in 16 cases via private-owned companies. This last number was likely to increase further in 2015. Even today, a provision that is exemplary enough for some not to have to change the Constitution, thus allowing for the privatisation of the public service. Even today, the arrangement allows the provision of drinking water to yield profits. It is already so clear today that a change to the Constitution is necessary and, in the first place, justified. That private ownership of water or public service is completely ineffective and harmful, we find examples from abroad as well as from our experiences. When privatisation takes place, the supply gets worse, prices rise, and the profits of a handful of individuals and businesses will also rise. The fact is, even so, the neoliberal city authorities or the governments of the day-to-day authorities are more aware that they have made a major mistake by allowing privatisation. They are already trying to return the supply of drinking water to the public, to the hands of citizens and citizens. The data for Slovenia are exactly the same. In the municipalities that left the supply of drinking water to private - owned companies, the supply prices rose. As a result, some people pay a 2 times higher price for water than those in neighbouring municipalities. The high salaries of directors, and in some cases the payment of dividends, as well as the desire for even greater profits, only makes the situation worse. For this reason, it is essential to ensure that drinking water supplies are universally accessible to all citizens and under the same conditions and without a change in the Constitution, it is simply not possible to do so. A fully equivalent objective is also to protect the water resources themselves. Water resources that provide drinking water must never pass into private hands, must never become marketable goods, and water resources must always serve as a priority in the provision of drinking water to the population. It is true that water resources are now sufficient for them to serve both the population and the drinking industry at the same time. But it is a matter of time before the simultaneous use will no longer be possible. Even today, we can ask ourselves why we have never heard a call from the alcoholic industry in the dry months to reduce the use of water due to lack of water. Although legislation already allows concessions to be restricted in such a case, this provision is by no means good enough. As a common practice, it also contains a word that is easy to say. We have not found any examples of concessions already being limited or even withdrawn. A clear determination that water resources serve the public with drinking water as a priority and sustainable service is therefore also essential, even though today we may feel that this is not the case. But we must not forget that this can change quickly, maybe tomorrow, maybe in 10 or 20 years, but then it will definitely be too late for the changes. Without taking into account the growing appetites following the privatisation of water resources and the growing appetites of the drinking industry, data on groundwater status are alarming. According to the latest statistics, the supply of drinking water will be compromised in 20 years. This also comes from data from Arso, which points out that "the estimates of the water bodies of groundwater produced by Arso hydrogeological service show a relatively good condition and in recent years has raised concerns about lowering levels in some areas of groundwater water bodies". Data on the state of groundwater are of particular concern, with a supply of 97% of the population from this source. If we allow unlimited concessions to the beverage industry and even the privatisation of these resources, this black scenario can be further accelerated. There are more than enough arguments for changing the Constitution; a change is certainly necessary and is necessary today. In the United Left, we believe that a change of constitution is necessary in order to achieve three key objectives: firstly, that all residents have the right to drinking water, secondly, that water resources cannot be privatized under no circumstances, and finally that drinking water supply is public, universal and non-profit. So, without any possibility of awarding concessions to private companies for the execution of public service, allowing private companies to forge profits on this account. All of these objectives are clearly derived from the text of the new 70a, as well as from the explanation of the constitutional law itself. In the United Left, we are pleased that the coalition has complied with all our demands and has also supported our proposals through the process of preparing the final text and explanations. This will make it clear by amending the Constitution that drinking water is everyone's right, that water resources are not marketable and cannot be privatised and that drinking water supply can be provided exclusively through municipalities without the possibility of granting concessions. As soon as possible after the amendment of the Constitution has been announced by the Government, we expect everything, through the Constitution, to be transposed into sectoral legislation, which must therefore be amended. We certainly expect that legislation will be prepared properly, professionally and that it will not allow any circuits of these constitutional provisions. As has already been said, we will be in the United Left of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are supported and we will also monitor with a watchful eye the work of the Government, which must ensure that the objectives pursued by the new 70.a. are also carried out at the level of sectoral legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Without water, there's no life. It's an invaluable natural treasure. Man urgently needs it to survive, so there can be no doubt that access to drinking water is a human right. Slovenia is, in fact, very fortunate that it is a very watery country and that drinking water is also accessible to everyone. In Novi Slovenija, we have been kept in the Constitution with regard to the right to drinking water, since the area of drinking water supply is very well regulated by regional laws. The question is whether this right is absolutely necessary to be enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular to record the full text of the new article 70a proposed by the Constitution. At the principle level, of course, no one can oppose this, since it is a matter of providing one basic living conditions. However, this raises a number of questions, and I point out only some. Firstly, the current legislation is entirely satisfactory, as the Constitutional Commission also points out in its position. The Water Act, the Environmental Protection Act and the Grants Regulation favour the provision of drinking water to the public through municipal economic services. Article 72 of the Constitution, the Slovenian Constitution, provides sufficient legal basis for the implementation of the Law on Environmental Protection and the Law on Economic Public Services. The provision of drinking water is a compulsory public service provided by the congregations through their directors or in a public economic institution. In both cases, we are talking exclusively about the non-profit management of this service. Even if a concession is granted for the supply of drinking water, this does not mean that the water is privatized at home. Whoever cites such claims does not know the basic concept of the concession system or is deceiving the purpose. Secondly, a member of the Constitutional Commission, Marko Kambič, felt that the registration of that right in the Constitution was not necessarily necessary; that it was sufficient only to enter the first paragraph. So, "Everyone has a right to drinking water" and a point. With this, Christian Democrats are fully identified; everyone has the right to drinking water. Pika. It is also an analogy with Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which says, "Slovenia is a legal and social state". An extremely important article, perhaps the most important one. Interestingly, this analogy was also agreed at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission by some members of the expert commission, constitutional lawyers. When Christian Democrats say that everyone has the right to drinking water, we see for ourselves, and we understand first the obligation to protect water resources. How do we implement the European Union directives on the protection of water, the environment and so on? I don't think it's very good. We receive warnings and also financial penalties. We welcome the civil initiative that requires the National Assembly to change the Slovenian Constitution. At the same time, of course, we are immediately wondering what will happen to the operational drinking water supply programme adopted by the government on 23 June this year. I continue, thirdly, it would be unacceptable for the public and drinking water households to exclude the possibility of granting concessions to domestic or foreign companies or the concessions already granted. It seems, however, that the main purpose of the applicants is to leave this area entirely to the State. In our view, the abolition of concessions without carrying out thorough preliminary analyses would not make sense either, as the state or municipal implementation of the public service of drinking water supply in itself does not yet provide quality supplies. On the other hand, subject to appropriate regulation and supervision, private law persons may also be able to perform the public service satisfactorily. It would be ideal if the municipalities could carry out a public service of drinking water supply alone in directors or through public companies, but we doubt that all municipalities are capable of human resources, logistics and, above all, financial capacity. In itself, implementation can cost a considerable amount of money, and in the coming years it will also require substantial investment in the renovation of the long-term water infrastructure that municipalities and the state will have difficulty in doing without private capital participation. Therefore, a thorough reflection is needed on the relevance of the abolition of concessions. Fourth time. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the Republic of Slovenia must maintain ownership of water resources and ensure effective and sovereign authority, including regulation and control. If water resources are publicly owned by the Republic of Slovenia, so if the rules are clearly defined, it does not matter who is the supplier of drinking water supply: the local community, concessionaires or other forms of public-private partnership. In our view, the country should perform only regulatory and supervisory functions primarily in determining the price of drinking water. The legal regimes of water resources, drinking water supply infrastructure and the public service itself must be such as to prevent private interest from prevailing over public and profit-making at higher prices and the decline in quality of supply. Fifth. If the provision of water to the public was granted only to a public legal entity, this would necessarily mean that these entities should also provide in large part a commercial part of the supply that goes beyond merely the provision of drinking water to the population. Six. Let's also point out the following. Almost no country has the right to drinking water not included in human rights and freedoms, but they guarantee and exercise this right at the legal level. Yes, they wrote that in South Africa and Uruguay, and ask yourself, do the people of these two countries really have drinking water? In Novi Slovenija, so the last paragraph of the constitutional bill stipulates that the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided by the state through the self-government local communities, directly and unprofitably, cannot be supported. The fact is that this paragraph abolishes the award of concessions and lice water supply. In doing so, no questions are raised by the proposers as to what this means in practice. It is known that 13% of the population of Slovenia, or 260 000 people, do not have the opportunity to provide water supply in public services, but are dependent on their own drinking water supply. The logical question follows is what will help these citizens to write down the right to drinking water into the constitution if they can no longer be supplied from your plumbing. Dear colleagues, I should like to conclude with the conclusion of a large-scale study on the State's responsibility to guarantee the right to clean drinking water produced by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in July 2015. This is the front page of this study, it has over 170 pages and here is, as it is said, the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana – probably a relevant institution, here is the Institute of Public Administration at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana – probably a relevant institution and the Legal Information Centre of NGOs – probably an relevant institution. I quote only one paragraph from this extensive study: "Despite the final content of the constitutional records, it is essential that the Government prepare a law that will regulate the supply of drinking water in an integrated manner. This is necessary both because of respect for Article 15 of the Constitution, which sets out how constitutional rights are exercised and because of the substantive shortcomings of the current regime. The constitutional provision is only the basis for further regulation of this area, but by no means can it solve all problems in itself. Without an appropriate implementing law, the constitutional provision on the right to drinking water and on the non-profitability of drinking water supply may only remain a dead letter on paper which will not have any effect in practice." I strongly recommend that you read at least the conclusions of this study before making a decision. We also received a letter from two former ministers in these days, one from Mr Jazbinšek, who wrote to us. We have not received a letter from Dr. Paul Gantar, but I recall his contribution today in one of the Slovenian journals, where he says the following: Mr. Gantar was also president of the National Assembly and in 1994 to 2000, Minister of the Environment, "... I found myself wondering whether my knowledge of the Slovenian language was lacking or not understand the distinction between national and local self-government. There is also a third possibility that this provision is violence against both the Constitution and the Slovenian language. I firmly believe that the proposal for a constitutional law that enshrines the right to water in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has missed its basic objective, that in some formulations it even undermines the already achieved primacy of the right to use water for public care of all other types of use and that it will today cause not entirely predictable consequences......" And Dr. Gantar must not be anyone. At first in Novi Slovenija we were pleased that the Government was present here for the painting. Apparently, she was only present for the painting. I expected from Mr Cerar, and this is how the entire parliamentary group expected Dr Miro Cerar to announce here from this pay phone the exact time frame for adopting the appropriate legislation, which will have to be implemented within eighteen months. That wasn't there. Of course not. Why not? Because it's eighteen months away from the elections, and then everyone's gonna be fucking how this record of the right to drinking water into the constitution will come true. We will not participate in this parade of water pride.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Nice greetings, colleague and colleague, president! Today is the last step to be taken to write water into the constitution on the proposal of the Alliance. Hand-to-hand, the process of initiating a change in the constitution with the entry of water into it has already begun in the previous term and, due to the circumstances of the end of the term of office, this procedure has been terminated. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the Alliance almost two years ago, we began to seek support to complement our Constitution by writing down to protect water. In the parties Desus, Social Democrats and the United Left, they immediately realized that such a step was needed and 16. 4. On a proposal from the Alliance, we have tabled a proposal with 26 signatures from Members and Members in the legislative process. Unfortunately for us at the time, the biggest government party was not with us, although we sent her a proposal, she did not decide to go through the procedure with us from the very beginning. But I am glad; I am glad that she has fully come to know that this is the right way. I am particularly pleased that the President of the Government has said that Green Slovenia is the goal of this government and that our proposal supports it. But to all the others mentioned to Desus, the Social Democrats and the United Left, I sincerely thank you for your support from the very beginning. Without water, there's no life. It's a river that holds. Slovenia is among the countries that can boast of the best water. For many, it is unimaginable that in our country we can open a pipe and drink water that is even better than bottled water. For many, even in Europe not only in the less developed part of the world, water is already a good thing that is not as self-evident as we are. Slovenia does not yet have major water problems; not with quality and not with quantity. At least not in much of our country, but it's far from staying that way forever. That is why it is right to take care of the future today. Privatisation pressures; pressures for the privatisation of water resources have also been linked to all of these trends over the past decade. Since we have assessed in the Alliance that the privatisation of water resources must be prevented, before you the proposal to amend or supplement the Constitution, by which water and access to water will be defined as a general and fundamental right, to prevent the privatisation of water resources and to prevent drinking water from being treated as any other commodity, which means that the supply of drinking water will always have to be carried out in the form of a non-profit public service, which means that no profit will be generated or that any profit will have to be returned to the protection of drinking water. With the introduction of water into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as universal and fundamental rights, we think in due time about the challenges for the future that our children and grandchildren will face even more strongly. Privatisation pressures and possible wrong political tendencies will be prevented at the highest level and will signal Europe and the world that water supply in Slovenia will not be intended to generate profits. Never! Water is public goods and must be accessible to all. Forever! Thank you in advance to all those who will help write the proposal of the Alliance into the Constitution. The procedure for amending the Constitution was almost two years. Legal experts have helped us to do so, and so is the case, since the Constitution is the highest act of the State and needs to be amended with consideration. The amendments tabled and accepted during this procedure have made a number of mistakes in the process, hand in heart. From safe drinking water to the roof state-run drinking water company, which the Government is supposed to establish. Also because of the comments of the congregations, which – I must stress – have highlighted the problems and concerns, particularly those related to these supplements, we are finally back on track, and I believe that we are doing the right thing. We will protect water in the constitution for future generations and no government will be able to sell our water resources on its own. Of course it's not over. This is the first step that will have to be continued. Laws will have to be adapted, changes will have to be made, or constitutional change will have to be made in life. And that's the government's job. I wish that this constitutional change would not remain just a letter on paper, but given today's presence of the President of the Government, I must say that I am optimistic and that in the short term we can, in his mandate, expect these legislative changes on our tables. In the end, really, I think we are doing the right thing and a lot of things for the future, so once again thank you all for helping us to write the Alliance's proposal into the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bratusek. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In the framework of the common time, the National Assembly will first hold a debate on the first and second chapters and then, in the course of the rest of the time, a debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. Dr Milan Brglez has the word to prepare Mrs Ljudmila Novak and Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would also like to start at this point by thanking all those who have contributed to this process, that we have come up with the solution we have now to decide on it. In a way, it is also an honor for me to be able to participate in this matter, that I have had this opportunity and opportunity on an individual level, and I also think that this will mean a great deal to all those who are and who will give our voice. I speak this way at the level of all political parties that contribute to their vote. Let me start this moment with the smallest group of unrelated Members, including the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, the United Left, the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia and, finally, my client, the Party of the Modern Centre. These are the ones who provide the votes. Far from being the only one who contributed to the compromise. I think that the compromise goes beyond just the parties who are in Parliament, and at least the civil initiative for Slovenia and freedom, all three associations of municipalities, and, last but not least, the professional committee, must be mentioned. At least. All of this has contributed to such a compromise where I think we can all own this matter and at the same time no one else can. The point is that I think that in this process, which has been – optimally – given what we want to achieve with this constitutional change, that is to say, to provide a legal protector for the protection of our water resources. This legal protector rises from the marriage to the constitutional level with the upgrade; not only does it raise the existing one, but it is certainly an upgrade and I will try to explain it. At the same time, we have succeeded in this process – and this is a good sign – to overcome some ideological divisions, other divisions, even when we sometimes complain, but here we have managed to step together. This is a sign that we are able to come together for important things, and this is actually a good promise, and I think that, in each mandate, it means the crown of what is within the mandate of the individual Assembly of the State what can actually be achieved in the parliamentary process – of course, if we all stick to what we have agreed. I believe so, so that's what I'm saying. Speaking of this raising of legal protection through upgrades, it must be said that legal protection is always withdrawing from international treaties under our law, but international treaties must be in accordance with our constitution. And this is the one that is much harder to remove than the normal majority, making it possible for the law to be regulated so far. At least from my point of view or from the point of view of the branch of power that we represent, this is, in my view, crucial. In our proposal, there are some fundamental solutions that deserve to be written down. Some of those things that have already been said, I'll comment, sometimes a little indirectly, so that I don't hurt anyone too much. If we just stick to the first line, "Everyone has the right to drinking water", it is in itself a positive human right, we recognize it, but what we do with it, we also guarantee the conditions for this right to be exercised. Otherwise, I would remind you that there are many analogies, even in the constitutional order, when such rights could be written down, but this certainly is not the direction in which this coalition signing this matter would want to lead this country. So, such a principle right, in itself, is often written down, but there are no conditions, nor is there any desire for this to happen. The basic conditions for doing so are served by the continuation, in particular the first paragraph, so that water resources are public good in the management of the country. This means that no more water resources can be owned: not by the State, not by the State, nor by the local community, in the sense that it is exclusive; we must all take care of these water resources, and the governance of the country certainly does not mean that it can be freely available to them, but that the country is also bound by this constitutional change. Of course, the country is all of us, but there are other authorities, and that is what we need to know. We have this power in this process to change the Constitution and this commitment goes beyond, and this commitment can also be made in further proceedings if they do not take place as they should, because of this constitution, of course, the position of the National Assembly, which can be invoked either before the Constitutional Court or otherwise. This is certainly a very important matter. The third thing I would like to say concerns paragraph 3. First, priority and sustainable supply of drinking water to the population, which has priority over any commercial use. Firstly, emphasis on this and always withdrawing commercial use before this, while at the same time allowing commercial use precisely because it is a recognition that water can be a strategic good. We do not know what will happen in Slovenia with this, we cannot know, but at the same time, it is not only an advantage, it is also sustainable. Therefore, care must be taken to ensure that these water resources are adequately available for the care of the inhabitants. If there are enough of them, then we can also have something like this, for example, in the past, a strategic asset such as oil or anything like that. It is clear that development will go in this direction to be such a good thing. Whether we will have enough then depends on whether these commitments will be implemented in an appropriate manner and, of course, also on climate conditions, and here we are bound to do so. The last thing I would like to point out is the last paragraph which binds both the State and the local community to the direct use of this or to the provision of this right in a direct and non-profit manner. Only the two guards jointly prevent actual concessions. But, of course, today as we know it, because we are also part of the European acquis, because there are some rules also in international law, it is important that all are excluded from these concession cases. We cannot, in fact, work in one direction only, but we simply need to adopt the same principled positions that will allow the international treaty assessment processes to be more appropriate. They must be in line, otherwise such international treaties will not change in our legal order unless someone wants to change this fuse so that an international treaty can be concluded. Such would have to bring together 60 Members in this House, I think even 61, because those 30 will almost certainly put the matter on the referendum. I don't think there's any such opposition in this case. That is why, as I said, I am honored, I am glad that I have had this opportunity to take part in this and I really thank all the participants, because without any of you who are part of this process, we could not lead this process to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Dr. László Göncz and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I prefer to drink tap water; if I have a choice, or a bottle or pipe, it definitely leads from a pipe that is alive water, and thank God that I feel safe in Slovenia, so that I can drink tap water everywhere, unless there are some catch and water needs to be cooked. And thank God, Slovenia is also a water-rich country. As I was in countries that were not so rich with water many times, I was even more aware of the importance of water and how rich we are in Slovenia. For example, when we were in Cyprus last year, together with the president, they said nine, 10 months ago the rain had not fallen, they had to water down, we don't have to. True, though, we do not always treat water with the greatest care. Of course, I believe in the well-intention of all of us, because together we are aware of how important water is for life, and we all want this water to not run out of water, so that someone does not abuse it, so that we have it in the future. That is why I believe in the well-intention of everyone on this request to enter the Constitution. However, many experts, lawyers also point out that this right is already enshrined in the Constitution, we also have the Water Act and Article 108 states that the special use of water for drinking water is preferable to the use of water for other purposes. However, Article 109 provides that other forms of special use may be prohibited or restricted if they significantly impede general use or the supply of drinking water. The current way of providing drinking water through municipalities, which invested heavily in water systems, was first done by the citizens themselves, then by self-contribution, now by using European funds. So this water supply through the congregations, I think in most cases, is going very well. But I wonder if that's how it's gonna go. Of course, this provision states that this country will provide through the self-governanced local communities directly and non-profit-making. Of course, this word is unprofitable, and I wonder who will then provide the means, because we are not likely to be at the end of the restoration of water systems because there are many more asbestos pipes and what will happen in the future. It is always necessary to invest in renovations. Who will provide the money for this, or the congregations or the country? We also know that the country is not the best water provider. Why do we have floods? Of course because of the rainfall, but on the other hand, we haven't provided, yet no, flood restraints. We know how poorly the country cares for watercourses, that many times the congregations ask and demand that this be transferred to the jurisdiction of the congregation, which will take better care of its streams, for its rivers. We hear that a lot of times, they're infested, and that's why there's been a lot of flooding. We also know that the country is not the best owner of various companies. I am convinced that it is easier to complain or settle our problem in a congregation because it is the local self - government closest to people than to seek out a government official who will supervise or in whose jurisdiction this area will be. Therefore, I strongly doubt that this last paragraph of this first chapter is also well written. I seriously doubt it. Who will provide the money, and is the country really such a good guardian? I don't think so. I'm also wondering if we're trying to protect ourselves from our own stupidity, or if we're going to make this entry even more foolish, because we're going to set ourselves up with additional obstacles and problems. Unfortunately, this often happens to us that in the end we have such acts, such legislation, which brings a lot of problems and concerns, rather than being effective, clear and uniform. That's why I'm in a big dilemma, whether you actually support it or not. I believe in the well-intention of all, but there are big dilemmas, there will have to be a change in municipal laws, there will be state laws, there is a provision of eighteen months and indeed – given that there are two years or less of elections and local elections and all — whether we will actually be able to do so. That is why I have a lot of concerns about entering this provision into the Constitution. For the first time because this is already inscribed, the law is reinforced, and for the second time because I strongly doubt that the state will be a better guardian of the water system and that it will ensure that it will do so better than the congregations are now doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Ivan Prelog. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I believe that it is truly extremely necessary and, last but not least, I think that we are late to enter the right to drinking water into the Constitution. In fact, we must remember that there is, however, a whole series of procedures that are under way, if I may say so, and are linked to free trade agreements that allow multinationals to tell countries how they see their work, not the other way around. One of the goals of these multinationals is also to have access to drinking water resources, and especially to the knowledge that those who control water will in fact control the fate of all others who depend on water. As such, life depends on water and leaving it to multinationals would be one of the biggest or cardinal mistakes they would make in Slovenia if they did not go into the record of the right to drinking water into the constitution. While explaining that Article 70 of the Constitution regulates this sufficiently well, it is a matter of public good and natural wealth, the third paragraph of Article 70 speaks of the fact that the law provides that natural wealth may be exploited by foreign persons and that the conditions for exploitation may be laid down. But so far, the 70th paragraph in force allows foreign people to manage natural wealth in Slovenia. What attitude do we have towards how much we trust within the banking system and how we offer this system to foreigners, how we offer the rest of the property that is reflected in shares in state enterprises to foreigners, I don't think it's necessary to comment. I will not spread the debate on this subject, because this topic of drinking water is of course very important, but only as a warning that something similar can happen to us in the area of managing the right to drinking water. It would really be unacceptable for a multinational to decide that each individual can drink maybe three deciliters of water a day, but for everything else you will have to, say, pay for, or pay for, an additional system, a fund that will allow you to get a liter of water in a crisis when you are dehydrated. All of this can actually happen if this constitutional law is not adopted and we do not clearly say that we want to maintain sovereignty over this natural resource and to manage it properly. As far as water management is concerned, I agree with all those assessments that are in favour of having a relatively good system for managing open watercourses, as well as for controlling wind turbines and floods, in a way that we have also granted concessions here, and we are always finding that we are increasingly having problems managing watercourses, not that we have resolved this problem in an efficient way because it is managed by concessionaires. So, here too is one of the concrete evidence that this area will also need to be examined, more thoroughly regulated and most likely to be organised, as was once the case within the Water Community Union, where we also had defined floods within which the debate was conducted and, above all, with the local population, what needs to be done in the management of the most important watercourses and also in the ranking of lower watercourses. This thread has been broken and therefore this is one of the challenges that needs to be addressed and also changed in water management; adopted changes that will lead to more effective governance and, in particular, cooperation with local communities. Here, in particular, I would like to point out that, through the debate and drafting of the text of the Constitutional Law, it has shown how important dialogue with local communities is, and that is why there has also been harmonisation as to how we will provide drinking water for the population: whether this will be provided by the State or whether it will be provided by local communities. In view of the fact that this has been regulated so far in the way of compulsory economic public service of local communities, this constitutional change was necessary in the sense that the State is responsible for water resources, but in the third paragraph we have very clearly stated that the supply of drinking water and household water is provided by the State through self-government local communities and directly and non-profit. This means that there is a transfer of competence to the local community and, on the other hand, a very clear record in the Constitution that the State and the local communities must cooperate well; and this is also the objective achieved by this agreement and coordination in the preparation of this text. In fact, the Constitution also clearly provides for good cooperation between the country and local communities in this part. I'll be back here in just a moment to the open waters, and we don't have this cooperation that clearly designed, and that's why we have problems. This text, which we have before us, is a clear answer, once again, especially for multinationals, that we will manage water resources ourselves in Slovenia, but it is true that also those excess water – because Slovenia is an extremely watery country and this is our important national wealth – those excess water that we can actually sell under market conditions, so it is primarily bottled water, that we can also sell abroad after changing this constitution. These excesses of water we sell not least at very high prices, but look at the price it reaches, say, Donat on global markets, this is 50-, 100-fold what we pay at home for drinking water. It would also be right for us to think about this — as was the case in Norway — because they have extremely large oil and gas deposits — that the share of this profit goes to the pension system or to the pension fund. We would also like to consider the possibility that, above all, from the share that is being sold on the international market – and because they reach high values of bottled water coming from Slovenia – we also devote part of this earnings to our pension system and thus close that circle to ensure long-term, not only because we can live properly in Slovenia, because we will have access to water, but also through those surpluses we will ensure a suitable standard in the event of retirement. So a whole series of opportunities are offered in the future on how to manage our property, for our natural wealth. Today's debate and today's law are a good basis for us to be successful in other areas and to respond as clearly as we have in the protection of drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare to be Mr Franz Lai and Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Today we will, I am sure, accept the addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by entering the right to drinking water of all, which is of course very important and this addition to article 70a, which I will read, otherwise we have heard it, but I think it is right to read this article once again, the right to drinking water: "Everyone has the right to drinking water. Water resources are publicly good at governance. Water resources serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not marketable goods. The supply of drinking water and household water to the population is provided by the State through self-governing local communities directly and without profit. The laws governing the provisions of the new 70a of Article 70a of the Constitution must be brought into line with this constitutional law within 18 months of its entry into force." Thus, this provision imposes a great deal of work on the Government and the National Assembly in the coming months. I am pleased, respected and respected that we have been able to align the views of Members and Members and Members of the groups on this text and that today, by pressing the "yes" button, we will take a decision to complement Article 70 of the Constitution and thereby protect drinking water as a public good and to prevent any privatisation of drinking water management. The unity of Members and Members with regard to the registration of the right to drinking water is particularly important because the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 179 for the adoption of the National Assembly to amend the Constitution or the Constitutional Law by a two-thirds majority of all its members. And let me remind you of some of the reasons that led to our drafting of a constitutional change. These are the reasons. Water is a common resource for the survival of mankind and public goods, and therefore access to it must be a fundamental and general right of all. This position is supported by the European Parliament, which in many resolutions opposes the liberalisation of the water sector, as well as the United Nations. According to United Nations analysis, there are 783 million people without access to clean drinking water, and two and a half billion people do not have adequate sanitary conditions and thousands of 400 children under the age of five die every day from diarrhea-related diseases resulting from contaminated water, inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene. By 2050, there were already supposed to be a good 9 billion people on Earth, which means that during one generation, the number of people would have increased by more than all people on Earth at the beginning of the 20th century. This, however, is a strong pressure on water resources, respected and respected. Natural resources, including drinking water, are those for which financial analysts estimate that they will be most profitable in the future. We can therefore see that large corporations are buying agricultural land and water resources. Water is the most basic problem, since water is a natural asset that is a condition for life on earth. And, yes, without much analysis, we can find that we will urgently need water for survival and development. So water is the good that will enable corporations to operate in the near and distant future, so their interest in this good is increasing. In the world, 70% of water, 20% for industry and only 10% for households is used for agriculture. In industrialised countries, however, more than half of the available water is used for industry. By entering the constitution to provide drinking water to non-profit public services, we will give a very clear signal to Europe and the world that water supply will not be intended in Slovenia to earn profits, but will provide access to drinking water and municipal regulation of human rights. Let me also say that, in Europe, we are another country that will register the universal right of all to drinking water in the Constitution, only Slovakia has so far done so. I hope that the example of both Slovakia and Slovenia on the protection of water resources by entering this protection into the Constitution will also encourage other European Union countries to follow our example and to sign the right to drinking water into the Constitution. I would add that Slovenia has also succeeded within the European Union by demanding that a specific chapter on water be introduced into the CETA Agreement. This also proves Slovenia's clear interest in protecting water resources. This also says within the European Union countries that Slovenia does not care what happens to water in the years and centuries to come. Let me finish with the next one. In Slovenia we have heard a civil initiative that has carried out a wide-ranging action to introduce the right to drinking water into the Constitution. It has collected over 50,000 signatures from citizens and citizens. That is why I thank all those who have taken care of this in this civil initiative. On the proposal of the Alliance, we are co-signers of the proposal to amend Article 70 of the Constitution, including Members of Desus, Members of the SD and the United Left. As Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission, I would also like to thank all those who are in the process so far and today, by your vote "yes" you will contribute to the entry of this universal right to drinking water into the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Prepare to be Mr. Ivan Prelog and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's a nice greeting for everyone! I think we are indeed ahead of the historic moment, which I have absolutely supported since the beginning, namely the recording of the right to drinking water into the Constitution. Why am I here from the start? Because I believe and believe that water is the strategic good of the future and that what is oil today will be water in the future. We can already witness this, as we can see that in areas where drinking water is a problem, there are very great tragedies. There is also a displacement of the nations. And it is only right that we start worrying about the future today. With the record of the right to drinking water, I believe that we will also take a major step in supporting investment in drinking water supply in areas where the population does not yet have it. I hope that this will be the case and that we will all be supplied with drinking water in Slovenia. However, we must never forget the very great appetites of multinationals. Let me just visualize a few examples. We all know big companies in Slovenia – pharmaceutical – that work in our territory because they have access to quality water. It's also in the brewery industry, and I could still list it. It is also important to look into the past, as we know that drinking water is not only the one and the independent good that is deep in the earth, but the management of the surface waters can also influence and influence the quality of the drinking water that is underground. As we know, there have been certain interventions to the space before, I will say, very reckless, and so it is that we face some very strong extremes, once we have an extremely large amount of water, which also causes great damage and, on the other hand, droughts and restrictions on drinking water consumption. Therefore, I call and warn that in the future, too, with intervention into space, attention must be paid so that we can truly preserve this wealth that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The word has been given by Mr Ivan Prelog, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Violeta Tomić. Mr. Prelog, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law, I would like to respond in particular to the indications that those who advocate the entry of the right to drinking water have been given more time in the constitutional review process. In particular, on the part of those already on the Constitutional Commission as well as at the meeting of the National Assembly, they stated that they would not support the amendments or today's constitutional law. I am not surprised at the position taken in 2012 when the European Commission, through the directive, wanted to leave the implementation of water supply to a large European company whose main focus was profit-making. The then Slovenian government unfortunately supported the Commission's proposal. Fortunately, in 2013, more than 1.5 million EU citizens with the right to water petition addressed to the Commission were affected by the fact that this directive, which would open the door to the privatisation of drinking water supply, did not apply. In January 2016, the Civil Initiative for Slovenia and Freedom began by collecting a signature for the entry into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia of an irresistible right to water. The proposal for a civil petition also required, among others, that all water resources be protected in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia against privatisation and that water supply to the population has an absolute advantage over other water uses. The petition was in the form of a citizens' initiative 11. 3. 2016 with more than 52 thousand signatures of water guards together with requirements submitted to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Milan Brglez. Therefore, we cannot agree that these changes are a matter of great demagogies and a socialist reflection. At the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission, we were even made clear to the proposed amendments to the constitutional law that it was some kind of Venezuelan coalition to take power over water resources and water supply, just like Venezuela, the country of oil, which has state authority over oil resources. It was not just us, the instigations and insults that even members of the expert group received, but in particular the rapporteur, Dr. Loyza Ude. Let me also draw your attention to Twitt of 12. 6th this year, in a cynical way, opposition to this proposal was expressed. Let me quote: "The rulers would write down the right to drinking water into the constitution, followed by Orwell's record of the right to air, peeing, taxes, penalties to death." I regret that for some of the initiatives, more than 1.5 million EU citizens and more than 52 000 people in Slovenia, as well as the efforts of constitutional and other experts to draw up positions on the draft constitutional law, where there were also water professions, skydigabs, cheap populism and demagogies and socialist reflexes. Especially if we are aware that almost none of the Western EU Member States and its citizens, unlike us, have ever experienced social or real socialism. What, then, did EU citizens require? The European Commission has been invited to three measures: to provide all EU citizens with access to water and sanitation, to exclude water supply and water management from internal market rules and liberalisation, and to strengthen efforts to achieve universal access to water and sanitation worldwide. And what do we suggest, therefore, is our proposal socialistic? Let this be just a rhetorical question that you do not have to answer. I would also like to show you a disrespectful and disrespectful attitude towards the expert group. As you know, it was only Dr. Kambič who gave a separate opinion to the National Assembly in both its positions and the proposal for a constitutional law. Kambič considered that the existing legal protection was sufficient, while at the same time opposed the idea of preventing private and foreign people from supplying drinking water to the public according to market legality. All other members supported the proposal to amend the Constitution or to join the right to drinking water in the Constitution. I will not do the same in this place alone, and I will not disqualify Dr. Kambič politically, as Dr. Udeta did because of an opinion which he consistently advocates. However, I would like to point out here that all the constitutional experts who are close to you do not share your opinion or the opinion of Dr. Kambič. In this almost year, which is the course of the constitutional audit process, we have consulted both civil initiative and a number of experts in the water and legal profession, unlike you. Among them was a constitutional expert, whom I personally highly appreciate and whom you also appreciate or expose, who has been nominated for many public functions and who welcomes the initiative and efforts to get this right into the Constitution, since water is of exceptional strategic national importance and also from a global perspective. He drew his own attention to the Right to Water initiative, which went towards protection, so that the Member States themselves have the power to decide how they will exercise their right. He also drew attention to the need to ensure, by quality and quantity, the necessary water for a decent life, namely human dignity as a constitutional category, not only the right to life and the question of additional quantities in terms of affordability. It is certainly close to being able to supply drinking water in the form of a non-profit public service where the exclusive private sector, which is not yet dominant in the EU, can be achieved in the future. Therefore, it considers the arrangements for the sample case of Slovenia to make sense. Or a combination of public and private to ensure that the private part does not go to the detriment of the public. Therefore, to allow for those water management methods that provide accessibility, i.e. low price, equal sustainable water supply. He also warned us that the constitutional proposal, in any case, ensures the availability of water supply and the quantity necessary to ensure a decent life. In this context, any Constitutional Judges will interpret the provision. Additional quantities of water are also available at affordable prices. If there is no such norm, there is no constitutional obstacle that would prevent the price of water from being auctioned into infinity. This provision, which is more socially oriented, will require decision-making in this context. In saying this, I am deeply impressed by the words he said to me on his reputation: "I do not act as a politician in this matter, but as a Slovenian." Let me finish with his arguments in this place. According to my assessment, it is an expert who, apart from more than obvious qualities, nothing can be seen, nor does global and political control, but especially cannot be attributed to its degree. That is why I hope, or from you to the future, that, like all of us constitutional experts, even though you do not agree with their opinions, you will show due respect and will no longer receive offensive gestures than the one with which the proposal to amend the Constitution was accompanied by the entry: 'The right to a healthy mind and defence against harassment with stupendous proposals'. I've spent most of my life dealing with water in a technological sense. At the time of my term of office, however, as a Member, I set myself the goal of what we are deciding today. To this end, the SMC has also developed a research task with an analysis of how this is regulated by European countries, and in particular the task of how this is regulated in Switzerland. I hope that the epilogue of today's decision on such important matters will be good for all of us, regardless of political affiliation. Water is our oil of the future. For oil there is an alternative, for water, unfortunately, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Prelog. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Mrs. Violeta Tomic ready. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Otherwise, at first, I must say that I am disappointed that we are at such an important point in such a small title in the National Assembly. It is true that we are a little tired, given that we have ended the meeting today at about half-third hour and that we are at such an important point in such an assembly. But we have also done the introductory explanations, and I believe that many of us will repeat ourselves several times today, as we have already said in the first debate, but nothing about it. This right of entry into the Constitution should have been established long ago, as in the previous term, MEPs and Members wanted this constitutional right to water in the Constitution, but they were ahead of the mandate. In particular, in this mandate we advocate the regulation of this general and fundamental right in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also invited to do so by many congregations. Every day we receive calls or conclusions from municipal councils on this matter, including civil initiatives show great interest in this matter, as well as the great support expressed by us Members to bring this matter to pass today. I am convinced that water is a vital part of the environment, a basic good and a natural source of strategic importance to all of us. Without water, there's no life. That is why it is all the more important that we put this into the Constitution and protect this objective. Without water we do not imagine life, we need it for drinking, hygiene, growth, development, but unfortunately these water resources are unevenly distributed both in the world and in Slovenia. Unfortunately, some areas in Slovenia are also confronted by the fact that they simply do not have access to water. At that time, of course, civil initiatives, including voluntary fire companies, are taking place to help people have water. Thus, the provision of access to drinking water as a general fundamental right is an exclusively key protected right and thus we want to prevent the possible privatisation of water resources. True, Slovenia is relatively rich with natural water sources, and quality is on high level, so we often prefer to open pipe and drink tap water rather than bottled water. Only these bottled water can be used in many parts of the world, since it has very controversial water. However, the fact that we are provided with natural water resources does not mean that we can treat them as stepmothers, because climate conditions are also changing and can also happen to us, even in Slovenia, that we will have to provide this good in a different way – if not with us, perhaps future generations, which could also face the lack of these resources. It is also now showing, especially in the dry months, when water needs to be used in agriculture to make it easy to run out of water. It is plausible that large companies will be able, at the expense of water, to gain the opportunity for monopolistic profits, especially from the fact that our infrastructure is long-term, the resources for the infrastructure of local communities and the state are scarce and, even when European and cohesion funds are drawn, we often do not have the right criteria and criteria, and sometimes we may or may not be able to recover these funds because of the non-contraction. This is certainly unacceptable, and in these cases the State should act to prevent these things and these anomalies. It is therefore so important that water resources are managed by the State. In fact, it was pointed out at the outset that we are not going to do everything with the constitution itself. Of course not. We need regulations under the law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are deeply aware that we have only a few months until the end of our term of office, so in July 2016, we have addressed to the Constitutional Commission that the entry into the Constitution is only a first step, but that we must start immediately and immediately with the rules of law. Therefore, at this point, I also appeal to the President of the Government, who at the outset also said that green Slovenia is crucial to identifying in the Government's regulatory programme for the coming year all the key documents that are needed, which will have to be adopted at national level, in order to adopt these laws in the coming year, and then also to adopt these regulations in accordance with local laws, as these regulations will also have to be adapted. Slovenia, as I have already said, is rich in natural resources that could also be exploited by multinationals, so we must and must resist this. Why? Because water prices could be high if multinationals took over these strategic resources, and even if there were public-private partnerships, although some country or local community share, there could be very large price differences, network payments and therefore it is crucial that this resource be protected. Let me get this straight. We need to preserve natural resources, protect them properly and not allow them in any way to privatise water resources, so it is crucial that we in the Constitution, in this 70a, have written that water resources must be in the management of the country and that we provide water supply to the people through local communities in a direct and non-profit manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare for the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Dr Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am pleased that we rarely reach such consensus as we have this time around the introduction of water into the constitution. This is how I listen to actually the words I like today, especially on this side where we are present – I hope that the right does not obstruct the debate on water, because it is a topic that is not left or right, but actually concerns every citizen of Slovenia. In fact, we say the same thing in different words, talking about how important water is to every human being on earth. Now that we are witnessing global warming and its associated climate change, this pressure on water resources is so much higher. As a result of the growth of the world’s population, these pressures will continue to increase in the future, and unfortunately, water has been seen as a market commodity in recent decades. This is precisely why we are witnessing the great pressure of international corporations to privatise water resources. The experience of countries and urban authorities, where corporations have taken over the control and exploitation of public water resources, is, of course, poor. The price of water generally increased, corporations did not invest in the maintenance of water infrastructure, water quality declined, while private corporations gained profits. Not only did this limit access to drinking water to the poorest, but many countries have even banned the gathering of rainwater here and there under pressure from international capital. We, in Slovenia, are blessed with a very green and watery landscape, but it is also not something definitive that could put us to sleep. If we travel in Africa, we can see that sometimes the oasis have turned into deserts. This is what we call desertion of the provinces. We can see the remains of the mighty trees in the middle of the desert, and we know that there has been drastic climate change, which we, too today, can witness tomorrow. The argument of the troika, which some today are advocating, unfortunately, and advocating the privatisation of drinking water and water resources, is that the country is a bad host. We are in control of the country, and we must by no means allow ourselves to be a bad master on our land, for what we have, in fact, autonomy. We will say that in countries where water resources have been privatized, they can only report on extremely bad practices, such as France, Portugal, Great Britain, Greece, Bolivia, that we are not talking about Africa at all, where the vast population is more thirsty than hungry, and where there is even pollution and poisoning of wells to cause an exodus from a particular area of life. In these countries that I just listed, of course, if you travel and probably travel there, we can't open the pipe and drink water, just as we can drink it. As we have already heard today, water from tapa in Slovenia is much more quality than the water that we buy bottled. Not to mention that when plastic is heated and cooled, it triggers cancerous compounds that are very dangerous to the health of the population. That's why in the United Left we've been laying out the key points all along. In short, water must be accessible to all universally, so it must be treated as human rights. Privatisation of water and drinking water must be completely disabled; after all, even cases from abroad, as we have said, clearly demonstrate that privatisation is ineffective and extremely harmful to users. Therefore, the only form that ensures universal and non-discriminatory access to drinking water is in the form of a non-profit public service. I was deeply hurt as Belokranjica, when I heard that one of the best Slovenian waters, the purest, was sold to the Arabs. Arabs, as we know, have oil that they sell dearly and they keep primate in the world and, of course, they make profits. We have water; water that we did not need to pump, not to sell; interesting, but to strangers it is worth it. If we want to satisfy the market of those countries that are without water resources, then we can promise to drain the groundwater and lose what seems to us to be in large quantities. Many years ago, I read a book entitled The Indiscreet Will Be Thirsty. It's a fact, and about 20 years ago we didn't believe it to be so, but whoever controls water and food, he will control the world, he will be the master of the world. Therefore, let me also touch the protection of domestic seed, which is not far from this topic. We must protect food and water, for no one guarantees us that if we depend on buying these primary goods, we will survive as a human race at all. We know that capital is very hungry and thirsty and that it is never enough. Those who think capital is the altruistic creation that will take care of us, who will take care of our infrastructure, because we are such a bad master, he is very wrong, capital is only interested in profit. If we look over the plans of another country, we see how ruthlessly this capital is. After all, paper and money can't be eaten, we have to take care of the basics. When we hear, say, during dry periods, that residents must not water the gardens, but no one can ever prevent large users, the drinking industry, it is said, the industry can use water indefinitely, while people who drink this water or water the gardens must be careful. We have also touched on the CETA and TTIP free trade agreements. They also have great plans with our water, and here is the introduction of water into the constitution of our vital importance. Since water is the most important good that people have, because it consists of more than 70% of the human body, we have 92% in the brain, and dehydration means surely death, water also has memory. This was proved by scientists in the 1980s, and this evidence is personally very loving to me, because water has its own identity, has its own intelligence, has a code that binds to our DNA. In Slovenia too, scientists are internationally recognised by their research. We have the Institute of Bion, which is among the world's leaders, and also the Institute of Joseph Stefan is very much recognised in the field of water research. In short, water surrounds the entire world and carries with it all the uncleanness of this world and dissolves the impurities of this world, as well as dissolves impurities in our body. It washes us from the outside and from the inside, and therefore it is extremely important how we drink quality water. We must also be concerned about groundwater pollution and rainwater pollution. In short, water is the source of life, and if it is polluted, the existence of the planet and all living things is very questionable. Given that we consume 1.6% of our Earth's capacity annually if we touch the ecological position, it is my personal opinion that only by entering water into the constitution can water be protected, that citizens can drink safely and that it is our property. So I look forward to today and this entry and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mrs. Marija Bachič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, other Members! The widespread resistance of civil society to the pressures of the so-called troika, namely the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission after the liberalisation of the service market, including the provision of drinking water, has shown a high level of awareness of the importance of public services among the people of the European Union. Prior to that, the universal right of residents to drinking water, which must not be curtailed, was particularly exposed. Unfortunately, profitable interests or corporations often influence the decisions of institutions that make up a troika. This has also been reflected in the proposal for a Directive of the Council of the European Union and of the European Parliament on the award of concession contracts. Slovenia has probably supported this directive as one of the most obedient members of the European Union in 2012. The proposal for a directive included, inter alia, the mandatory publication of public tendering for concession contracts, whose values are higher than or equal to EUR 5 million, in the Official Journal of the European Union. The resistance of 1.66 million citizens of the European Union to the directive, thereby privatising water resources, has contributed to the amendment of the directive by exempting the supply of water to the population from the rules of the single market and liberalisation. This means that public authorities can continue to provide water for the population, if, of course, it is sufficiently aware that it will take advantage of this right. Despite a host of evidence of the harmfulness of liberalisation and the commercialisation of public services, both in the areas of health, education, social and water supply, governments have consistently followed the interests of capital and corporations. We have heard before from some Members that the country is supposed to be a bad owner, a bad asset manager. However, in the case of health care, we can see that this is not the case. If we look at the health systems' performance. This success has been evaluated by the World Health Organization years ago and has placed Cuba, Slovenia and the United States of America at the same level of success, of course spending around 5% of GDP on health in Cuba, while in Slovenia we spend about 9% of GDP while in the United States they spend about 18% of GDP on health, spending significantly more on public health money than in the United States. Of course, a major difference is to a large extent the privatisation of health care, which in the United States does not provide all people with adequate health care. In fact, there's something going on that's happening that's already happening with us, unfortunately, so you can get into poverty if you get sick. So the state is not necessarily a bad owner, depending on what state it is, what government it is and how it takes care of it. In short, some governments are convinced that the liberalisation and privatisation of public services in the field of health, education, social services would bring competition, more efficient public services and a weak country, even though there is experience in a world where the privatisation and commercialisation of public services have been practiced, the promotion of services and the reduction of accessibility of public services, often also reducing quality. The supply of drinking water to the inhabitants was privatized where water supplies or water resources were supplied - a fellow Member listed the countries where this was happening a little earlier, which is why I will not – so the supply has deteriorated there, the investment in the necessary infrastructure has been abandoned, and water loss from the water network has increased, and the quality of services has decreased. As a result of this, countries are taking gradual supply of drinking water back into their own hands, for example in France in Bolivia and elsewhere, while the Dutch law prohibits the privatisation of water supplies. The uncritical award of concessions from past governments and thus the privatisation and commercialisation of public services can prove to be an expensive school for the country and our citizens. If they threaten the State of the action in case of restrictions on concessions already granted, even if only when the shortage of drinking water threatens, it can only be a sign that someone has played irresponsiblely with resources belonging to citizens and the public good. Therefore, the area of concessions must be settled without delay in the interest of citizens. Concessions to private companies are a form of privatisation of public services, although we often hear that this is not the case in the National Assembly. However, it is a form of privatisation, which is also confirmed by social science, with all the problems brought about by this privatisation and even commercialisation, the commercialisation of public services. Where these are profitable companies that receive concessions for the provision of public services, we are also talking about the commercialisation of public services. At the time of independence, the text was written into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia so that foreigners could benefit from our natural resources. International trade agreements also pose a new potential threat, which some have been preparing for a number of years in strict secrecy. However, international corporations will benefit in particular from the agreements. We do not know what is or will be the content of international treaties. There is no additional safeguard against harmful international agreements. Today, it has also been made clear why such a record is not enough for marriage alone. There is no doubt that writing into the Constitution is necessary. Proposal for a constitutional law supplementing III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is an important step in protecting the interests of the people of Slovenia to protect water resources for water supply. It is clear, however, that the protection of the rights of the population should be separated from the concern for the interests of individual companies and concessionaires, where it is a matter of pure private interest. The Desus Group is among the proponents of entering provisions into the Constitution, and here we can say that we have never had the slightest dilemma as to whether or not we will be instigators. We think this is the right decision. This is why I particularly welcome the positive attitude of most parliamentary parties, municipalities and civil society, which have recognized the public interest and the danger posed by the liberalisation and commercialisation of water resources in Slovenia, since they are not always renewable and are not inexhaustible. Since this is the life interest of the inhabitants, I believe and I hope that you, honourable Members, will all take sides in the constitutional protection of the long-term interests of our population and our country in the supply of drinking water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Get ready for Dr. Franc Trček and Mrs. Maria Bachič. Here you go, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, as we all agree, we are discussing a very important subject. Every time we talk about the Constitution, this is a very important matter for our country. And it is really nice to talk in the way we talk today, in the way we are discussing today, in a way that most of us agree on what needs to be done. That, too, I must say, is very happy and encouraging. If and when we change the constitution, this will be the tenth amendment of the Constitution since its adoption in 1991. Finally, the Constitution was amended in 2013 as regards the introduction of the fiscal rule and the referendum regime. According to us and my assessment, this decision that we are taking today or that we are going to take to amend the Constitution on the admission of water to the Constitution is one of the most important decisions that we will take in this mandate of the National Assembly. With this decision, we have already said this, but it is no big deal, once again, that the Republic of Slovenia will become one of the few countries that will have the right to water enshrined in the Constitution. Most of us agree, the constitutional majority agree that this is very important and that this must be done. The right to water is explicitly enshrined in the legal order of certain countries, such as Belgium, Finland, France, Spain, Sweden; however, in these countries, the right to drinking water is not enshrined as a fundamental and adversarial human right in the Constitution. It should be noted, however, that in most Member States the responsibility to provide drinking water is in the hands of the municipalities and that in most of these countries drinking water is the dominant supply of public services. We want to keep it that way, too. I think it is very important and useful that we are also in some area among the first to regulate this area in this way. For example, Slovakia has regulated this in Article 4 of the Constitution, and this article provides, inter alia, that groundwater and water flows are owned by the State and that the State is obliged to protect and care for natural resources, including water, on behalf of its citizens and of future generations. At the constitutional level in the rest of the world, these rights are recorded only in South Africa and Uruguay; they do not exist in Venezuela if we go back to the debate that was held yesterday and in the past. I repeat, it is very important and I am glad that we agree in this that this is also regulated at the constitutional level in Slovenia. We have also said today that we also agree that protection at the level of law is not sufficient, that constitutional regulation is necessary, because our Constitution does not provide enough clarity as to what the concept of public good and natural good is. It is right to arrange this for drinking water in the constitution in a clearer and more specific way than we all agree. It is obvious that respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, that this entry of drinking water into the Constitution also means a great deal to the public. It is a special feeling when we can follow this desire in the National Assembly in a way that is as united as we do today. This right is important for the future, so I am proud of us, dear colleagues, that this will succeed in this composition, that we will regulate a right that is vital to all of us, and that we will regulate for future generations the right that virtually all of our people will feel on our skin. Let me add my personal experience. In 1989, when I began to study law in Slovenia, I could not dream of having this honour to influence the change of the Constitution along with my then classmate and today's Professor Dr. Rajko Knez at the Faculty of Law, who was a member of the Constitutional Commission, the expert commission that participated in the drafting of the constitutional amendment. It is important and can help any citizen to settle matters in our country so that it is good for all citizens. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for supporting this arrangement so that we can accept an important change for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. When I listen to this calm debate, it kind of makes me as happy as Mrs Murgel before me. We both started studying in similar years, although perhaps someone would say no, because Jasna looks much better than I do, she's probably less dehydrated than I am. I've been a little metaphorical a number of times, but I also actually said that we come out of the water, if we accept evolution, we're mostly made up of water, and without water, we're taken by the devil as quickly as we can. Beyond what is happening today and what is going to happen, there is nothing I can do, even if I were not of the opposition, and even if I were not professionally engaged in infrastructure projects, in order to take the floor and draw attention to some things that are being pointed out by more environmentally oriented citizens and citizens. This unfortunate constitutional change — why we regret it — because we live in a world where it is somehow not self - imposed — will not be enough. It will not be enough if we do not address environmental and spatial issues in a different way than the current minister and the team at the Ministry. We could talk long and wide about the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, we can talk about some sub-laws, regulations that allow for greater pollution, where the curves try to reduce the volume of severely degraded, poisoned areas resulting from some reckless industrial development. You could go back to my childhood and to the White Landscape and talk about Krupa, you could talk about the longevity of the water network because you're losing too much water. The issue of concessions for industrial uses should also be seriously raised, and the issue of concessions in the geothermal field should also be seriously raised. When I tried that, we didn't even get satisfactory basic data and answers. At that famous correspondence session on December 30, last year, the government quickly lit up. Why am I bringing this up? Beyond this constitutional, necessary change, all pathetic, with all the rhetoric that we so take, the other one, we also need to look at the situation on the ground that is not cheering. And the fact that I can get a glass of water, which is the basic form of humanity wherever you come — well, in the White landscape comes the cake along — will be a sad comfort if this water is actually polluted. And this is a problem that we have to address at this somewhat solemn moment, and this is a problem that we should deal with, regardless of what it is to prevent the composition of the government, the coalition versus the opposition, because it is a basic need for Maslow or someone else that we need to provide in this spatial aggregation, which is heard in the name of Slovenia; not only for citizens and citizens, but also for well-meaning visitors. And if I am very eco-friendly, we must also be less anthropocentric and also look at the flora and favu where we are going, say, reckless groundwater drying in Prekmurje due to certain inappropriate agricultural policies. These are all things that we need to take to heart when we protect the water resources that, I hope, are in the mind that this country and society still have, our greatest wealth. And by the time Jasna didn't think that we were going to put this into the constitution, even though I'm not an advocate, we were taught, whatever you think, by the FDV or then FSPN, that in the 21st century, wars, hybrid and any other, also related to water and water resources. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposer, Dr Mitja Horvat, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much, chairman. So far, I have easily left this charming and calm debate, and after a relatively turbulent night, it is also very close. Now it seems necessary for me to perform, not on behalf of the Modern Centre Party, but in the role of representative of the proposer, i.e. the Constitutional Commission; for which I have to say, as my colleague Dr Murgel told me before me, that it was a great honour and pleasure to be involved in such a historic moment as the change of constitution; although I am also inclined to change it with a shaking hand. It is also sad that, in this part, we would not only follow Article 82 of the Constitution to leave politics behind, to collect political points, the issue of prestige. These are things that should not be burdensome and, in particular, should not be communicated to the public in this way. However, my colleague from the United Left gave me a little incentive in the substantive work, and I must therefore say as a representative of the proposal, that the work that came from the proposal to amend the constitution, which was a little bit narrower and then quite a lively development from the proposal forward, was that we came up with the text that we are proposing today. I must urgently answer these questions, which have been asked and are of course important. At III. the chapter of the Constitution, the Economic and Social Relations, was a fundamental question whether we need to have a constitutional record, as some have warned today; whether we have sufficient legislation and whether this legal regime is good. Therefore, perhaps in this part, because they said that they would abstain for these reasons, or some who said that they would reconsider what their final vote would be, I reiterate, I think it is right and that we today must act on the basis of Article 82 of the Constitution as representatives of all the people. In front of the proposed constitutional change mentioned above, the position of the individual we are meeting here has been chosen and the interests we must take care of. And in this part with all due respect, Dr. Duck, as far as the environment is concerned, we already have constitutional provisions; and perhaps that is why I did not use this part in response. Let us say that the Constitution, as far as the environment is concerned in a broader sense and for natural wealth and in terms of protection, uses this technique in order to make use of activities under the law, by law, within the framework of the law. Therefore, I must say that the Constitutional Commission has guided us to the idea that we are now dealing with the provision of drinking water for the inhabitants, i.e. for individuals and in a broader sense also for households. Therefore, environmental protection issues in a broader sense were not a central theme of this constitutional change and a large number of initiatives, proposals, should be included in the constitutional text during the debate and during the whole event. On behalf of the proposaler of the Constitutional Commission, I should like to point out that it was essential that the text of the Constitution should be brief, so that we could not have all the questions that we would like related to this basic record, which led to the text being as short as possible in order to cover all the issues as possible. Of course, the question is how we will continue to implement this constitutional guarantee in practice. Warnings that are completely in place and I absolutely agree with them, as Dr. Trček said, I sign at any time. This basic observation, which I also somehow see in the debate, is that these constitutional changes are very anthropocentric. Of course, if we write them for the individual, they are for the people. Why do we not have the same arrangement for animals, for plants, for all our nature? Because we believe that the constitutional provisions that we already have and that we are also sending the legislator to resolve the issues within the framework of the Constitution, that our lives in our environment will be healthy, that it will allow us to stay well, a high level that, despite relatively threatened areas and individual environmental injuries, we need to make efforts. These are our joint efforts, which are to be offered to all those who decide, who are responsible, responsible in this area, to act responsibly and to do everything in terms of what we are considering today – ensuring the right to drinking water for the inhabitants and households as a priority and sustainable one. That is why this word is also in the proposed constitutional text. This means that everyone, under existing constitutional provisions on the environment, will have to act in such a way as to ensure that what we are accepting today is, as we say, a great consensus. Such events are truly a holiday experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Dr. Horvath. The replica, Dr. Duck. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. It seems to me that this sighing was in the middle of something. I'm not a lawyer, but I understand that we can't write the constitution as a free file. That's one. Second. My professional deontology tells me I've alerted you to everything I've warned you about. Although I am not a lawyer, I have repeatedly expressed myself as a constitutional patriot; and I can say that I know the Constitution relatively well, perhaps unlike any Member or Member. It is sad, however, that, in particular, that part of the economic initiative, where we also have an ecological part in it, we often somehow spray or forget it, some history of the previously mentioned pollution of watercourses and fingers and other things; we say that we should be more constitutionally patriotic. That was my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Mrs Marija Bačič is next; Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Daniel Krivec should be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about drinking water, about colourless gold I could say, so I am sure that we are all clear that water resources and drinking water are natural resources, natural goods that we must protect and protect so that we cannot privatise and must be managed by the state through local communities. Therefore, drinking water cannot and must not be marketable goods and for this reason it is important to protect it by entering it into the Constitution. Since water is essential for life, because we say that without water there is no life, access to healthy drinking water must be a fundamental and general right of all citizens. Water resources must serve the population in a sustainable and priority manner and should therefore be preferred to other users, such as industry, economy and so on. I am aware that Slovenian legislation is subject to directives of the European Union and international treaties which are above our laws. A document that is not subordinated to it is the Constitution. Since the Constitution is more difficult to change, it is very important that water resources and the supply of drinking water to the population be protected by the Constitution. We are aware of the fact that if we are 60 votes, and I am sure that more of them will be supported by the Constitutional Commission's proposal, we can be justifiably proud of this action. But with this action, we will only take the first step. I believe that, with our common strength and sincere desire to adequately protect water resources, we will find solutions that will benefit people and people of the Republic of Slovenia. We still have much work to do to adequately protect our water wealth, which flows from the taps of households, public and private institutions, institutions, businesses and so on. However, it is true that only writing into the Constitution will not be enough if all citizens, the users of this good, do not realize that drinking water is a privilege that needs to be handled carefully and cost-effectively, that no one will be able to take water resources and manage them, even under certain pressures or times of crisis. Dearly beloved, caring for healthy drinking water must be the mission of all of us, for it is also our duty to the present and future generations to which we tolerate drinking water management. As I am aware of the importance of water resources and healthy drinking water, of course, I will also support the addition of Article 70 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor; Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Jože Tanko are to be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and all the others present! Slovenian waters are a small water ring of a long chain of planetary water circulation. Because of its beauty and importance in the life of Slovenian provinces and ancestors, in our lives, as an extraordinary natural heritage and an indispensable ongoing journey to future generations, they certainly deserve our attention and the highest level of legal protection. In the photos of Tom Križnar, we can see what the world is like, where there's a war on water. At the same time, we know what warming of the atmosphere means, melting glaciers, what too much water on one side means, for example, by devastating floods; on the other hand, its lack, when drought literally kills many children. At the same time, water is also an immense source of pleasure and joy for children under 99 years of age. Furthermore, I would like to focus on a new 70.a. Article of the Constitution, which speaks of the suspension of the granting of water concessions and the non-profitability of carrying out this activity, since most of the observations have been made against these provisions at the meeting. I would like to draw attention to what is most important; that the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided directly in the form of a public, non-profit service. This means that water supply as a service is not a market activity and is exempt from market rules and the internal market of the European Union. Thus, water supply will not be provided through concessions, nor will these services be managed by private individuals through public-private partnerships. Service operators will have to be publicly owned. The purpose of the service's non-profit is also that the price will have to be determined in such a way as to enable the public service to be carried out, the investment needed for development. However, possible surpluses will only be available for supply purposes; the owner of the public service will not be able to dispose of them freely and make them available for other purposes. The current constitutional arrangements for drinking water supply are quite liberal. It allows the legislator wide room to enforce concessions and to leave the supply of drinking water to private legal and natural persons. We need to know that as soon as we can afford concessions, we agree, in accordance with the regulation of market relations in the European Union, to regulate competition in this area as well as to cooperate with foreign companies, in particular multinational companies. The supply of drinking water and the exploitation of water resources must therefore be managed by the public service in a non-profit manner, as I have already said. In today's debate, we also drew attention to the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the award of concession contracts and a later derogation from those provisions of the directive which have also liberalised the provision of supply, where public property is ineffective, while private individuals are expected to bring better services, better competition and lower prices to the market. This has been effectively resisted by civil initiatives in Europe and Slovenia. Over the years, the privatisation of public services, such as water supply, has shown that the transfer of power from public authorities to the hands of profitable corporations, which are often in foreign ownership. In Greece, Spain, Bulgaria and Portugal, large corporations have already taken control of water resources and water supply and have provided not only worse water from pipelines, but also higher prices at the expense of greater profits. An interesting case is in Italy when a high-participating referendum in 2011 voted against the privatisation of water supply. The Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi then suffered a defeat; his attempt to avoid a decision voted in the referendum was suspended in 2012. It is also a very interesting case of Bulgaria, where the government sold the system to a corporation dealing with the management of water resources and networks in order to avoid the costs of the restoration of water supply in Sofia. In the last ten years, the price of water has been raised by more than three times, there has not been a recovery of the water network at all, while the corporate director has paid an annual salary of EUR 400,000. When the corporation made about £1.5 billion in its Bulgarian business, it sold its share of Sofia’s water and withdrew from the Bavarian water market. Our craftsmen must not depend on packaged water in the future. The bottle of water is already more expensive than a liter of petrol and can only be afforded by customers from higher social strata. On the occasion of our visit to Slovenia, the President of the European Water Association Károla Kovács warned us that we do not generally realize that we pay tap water in cubic meters; and not in litres as bottled. The cubic meter of the cheapest bottled water costs us 600 euros and the price of tap water is 1 euro per cubic meter. It is therefore necessary to protect water supply from public water supply and to provide this service in a non-profit manner. Now we do not take water for wealth when we talk about wealth in Slovenia. Slovenians don't even think that the future is possible, to set up an alarm clock in the morning, to make the best possible use of the day of the week when water comes out of the tap because they want to finally wash their clothes, wash their dishes, clean their apartment. It also seems far from clear that before the construction of the house, they must first buy sufficient water from private suppliers, since they would otherwise use water for basic needs for other residents. Slovenians say – Water for the shoe is not good. But it must still be good for drinking from the tap and also for the constitution. I am confident that today we will achieve this important change of constitution, and I am happy and proud to contribute to it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Get ready, mags. Alenka Bratušek and Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable present, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin when the initiative came or when we started the debate on the Constitutional Commission, even at that first, sort of informative meeting on how someone would define themselves, I decided to support this proposal for the introduction of the right to drinking water into the Constitution. At that time, there were dilemmas from a constitutional point of view, and also from a conceptual point of view, where this distinction is, where we have to regulate matters in laws and what is in the constitution; there was a lot of talk about this and now I would not go back and not go back. It is likely that reflections and opinions on this matter were justified to be such or different. But I believe that, despite my point of view, the introduction of this right is a legitimate act, and that is why, as I said before, I will support it. Above all, I would mention two aspects that undoubtedly affected my decision. The first aspect is the general significance of this value of water for the existence of mankind. We could talk about it long and wide, and there was much to be said today, so I wouldn't waste words. Undoubtedly, it is a good thing that is still present in our environment today, unfortunately many in the world no longer; and we know that, in the long run, this problem will be greater. That is why I believe that this is a symbolic aspect, which, in its own way, cannot be considered only symbolic, but also as very important, substantive; however, while it is now being introduced into the Constitution, it is only symbolic to some extent, so it is very important. And that was for me to decide. Another thing is the second content that appears here to prevent all possible abuses, now very widely seen, in relation to water use or water abuse. I agree with those who point out some caution here. I believe that there may have been a lot of over-spoken, perhaps even over-potential from one or another point of view in recent months; but it is certainly important to draw attention to this in its entirety. I don't want to be long, my dilemma is just whether we could stop after the second paragraph of the proposed content. And if you asked me and I had to decide, I'd stop there, so when we write down that everyone has a right to drinking water and that water resources are publically good at managing the country. After all, this will cover the entire content and, in my opinion, everything else would be no longer a matter of marriage. But if this is as it is now, and this consensus was created on the basis of a rather well-assembled professional team, I think that at this stage this cannot be the reason for changing its original opinion. Although perhaps due to paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Constitution, it has been clarified from a constitutional point of view or from the point of view of competence, what is in the Constitution and what is in the laws, as I have already said, I will insist on my decision and will support the proposal to introduce the right to drinking water into the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you, Dr. Gonch. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Get Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Mr. Franz Jurša ready. Here you go, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Of course, there is no doubt that, as first signed under the proposal to amend the Constitution, I will also support this amendment. And I am happy, truly happy, that we have been able to secure the required number of votes for this change in the National Assembly. The procedure was long-term, the procedure was, I can say, also turbulent for a moment, perhaps a bit problematic; but things with the professional public, with the outside co-workers, with the municipalities somehow pushed back in the right direction. Is the record in front of us the best, I can't tell you. Those who are not lawyers need to be trusted by legal experts, and here we are to them. It is true that the Constitution should be written as easily as possible, but on the other hand, something has to be said if you are changing it. The key thing is that drinking water is the right of all to be implemented in a non-profit manner; and finally, the fact that drinking water supply remains in the form it is through the municipalities today. The country manages water resources through municipalities. The arrangements remain as they are today. Regardless of the concerns that still arise and are likely to be justified and will have to be answered further to a number of questions, I think there is a big step ahead of us. This also shows that other countries have not yet done so. The fact is that we do not have drinking water problems in Slovenia at this time; but this does not mean that it will always be so. That doesn't mean that. Climate change also changes the supply or production of water in certain areas. This should concern us, not changes in a year or two or five; but in 20 or 30, of course. I'm really glad that we've come to this point and that, as it turns out, the Constitution will be amended today. But it's true, it doesn't mean the end. All together, we still have much work to do to change the legislation that is needed to consider whether it would be right — I think a colleague has already talked about it before me — that a fraction of the resources that the state or the municipalities are collecting from the water from the provision of drinking water should be set aside for the future. Whether it's a demographic fund or some other form, it's a matter of conversation and agreement. But those countries that have oil, part of it is devoted to selling this natural good, we, because unfortunately we have no oil, but we have another, perhaps even more important natural goods in the future. And what seems just as important to me is that we all have to raise awareness together that water is not a self-evident good, that it can also, I will not say, run out, but that it can also be a lack that it is necessary to ensure the restoration of water lines so that we do not send 40% of drinking water back to the ground to ensure that water sources are not polluted and could be listed. All of these are tasks that we must do together just as this change of the Constitution today; more than for the present, but for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have some cancellations and absences, so I give my word to the final debater, Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go, Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you. Why is there a lot of questions about water going into the constitution today and why? Some even cite arguments against, arguments such as that today we have plenty of water, that Slovenia is rich in water, that the supply of water to the population is very good, that we already have water and water resources very well protected at the legal level, that our laws are good. And I think that these arguments against this admission of water into the Constitution can be arguments for the introduction of water into the constitution. The fact that we have enough water today may be the reason for us to register it today. In 30 years, when the pressure on water resources is 50% higher than predicted, then it will be harder to reach such consensus in Parliament, it will be harder to achieve that people will agree that water is not from anyone, that it is essentially more than everyone. Because then water will have a very high value and it will be difficult to prevent some, those who will have this opportunity, from making profits in this way. Because we all need water, some will serve. Then it will be harder, so the argument is that we have enough and too much water today, just an argument to do it today; and not when this is going to be much harder. That water and our water resources are already well protected at the legal level today, this is an argument for us to change the Constitution and to raise this regime, which we agree is good, to a higher level; that is, the Constitution, which is harder to change. Some have given reasons not to know whether or not they would be responsible for this change, because the local community will have some work to do, because as a result, we will have some work to do in Parliament, and the government will have to make laws. But if that's why you're against protecting water without which no one can live and against protecting it for our craftsmen, then I think that's the wrong reason at the wrong time. If there's a point where it's worth hanging sleeves and trying for these eighteen months to fix all the submarital and legal acts, then that's the water issue. And what will change the next day after we have done so, even after we have arranged this legally? It's not going to change much, it's going to be everything that's really going to be the way it is. In doing so, it is important that not much will change for us, Slovenians, even 30 years from now. At that time, other countries that do not devote such attention and role to it today will be faced with how to provide water to the population at an affordable price; then we will not have to do this because we are doing this for those who follow us, our children and our grandchildren. I think that what we are doing today is a good thing, and I am glad that we are all or a constitutional majority of us together as far as that is concerned. But I want those who are swinging to press the "yes" button in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate on both sections of the draft constitutional law, which gives the floor to the representative of the proposer and the President of the Constitutional Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President. Probably not as President of the Constitutional Commission, but on behalf of the proposaler, I will say some of the thoughts I have drawn up and some responses to today's debate. Now I'm very grateful to both the forerunners, mag. Cousin and Mr. Rabbit, who gave a nice warning about what was going on in this process. This process has shown how important and how good it is if we pull together and do something together; and if we do something together not for us, indirectly, but especially for those who come after us. So that our narrow personal and private interests did not prevail and were not at the forefront of the drafting of the text of constitutional changes regarding the right to drinking water. I will not even appoint a person because it is not essential in this work, but this is precisely what it was – the water is not owned by anyone, the non-proprietary foundation, which in the debate today was also heard from different sides; therefore because this is an essential condition for life. There are, of course, strong pressures, strong interests in the economic exploitation of water. This was therefore one of the issues faced by the Section and the Constitutional Commission. This was a very important question and we did not want or intended to prevent economic use, namely what was most often expressed in this debate – bottled water or bottled water. It's not just that, it's just one part of the economic use of water. Remember, on the other hand, we have a very important area, this is the area of agriculture, where we are also preparing everything we need in our country so that agricultural land can be irrigated more intensively. Of course, water is used from putting it in bottles and offering it on the market to what was initially said to be followed as another country in the European Union; but on a different basis. We are not dealing with the basic question whether this water can disappear from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, that it must remain within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Everyone is important to us, everyone! Nor do we offer a change of constitution only for our citizens and citizens – I have never said it myself, although it might be politically opportunistic – for anyone who is in this area, because foreigners have the same rights in our country as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is simply a fundamental issue of respect for life, respect for each individual and equal treatment. I am also pleased to be able to respond to certain dilemmas that have arisen. This text does not answer all the questions that arise to us, nor may we have answered all the questions during the drafting of the text to amend or supplement the Constitution, if I am more precise. As regards the issues that have arisen and arisen, it may also have been expressed in today's debate, it should be noted that the part of the amendment that we are proposing for adoption is also an explanation. I did not rely on this explanation in my performances today because it is a four - page printed text. However, it may be right to point out, on behalf of the applicant, at the time of this debate, for a magnetogram and for the public that, as is customary for us, it is an integral part of how constitutional provisions should be understood and applied. In this case, by supplementing the Constitution with Article 70a, it is an integral part of this and a guide for all who will act or will be limited by this constitutional supplement to respect also the explanation which forms an integral part of the amendment or addition to the Constitution. In this part, there is a clear question that is always emerging. Can words be understood differently or turned for any reason, manipulation, political gathering, cynicism, discreditation? Anything can be abused. The question is also whether we have now eliminated all possible abuses by this text, as we have worked together. Alone, in my personal name, I can say that I am not imagining this, the human imagination is one of the very important and also very dangerous phenomena in society, and it will be possible to abuse such a text, those words that may turn when it is at some point in someone's narrow personal, private, group interest. I hope and I believe not; I believe that we have succeeded; a great deal of effort has been made. Perhaps I do not want to continue to shorten this agenda item together because we still have a lot of work to do. Let me therefore say from this city that I thank all those who have cooperated constructively on the Constitutional Commission either with their written contributions or with their personal involvement at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission itself; or in many of the developments concerning this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	I conclude the debate on both sections of the draft Constitutional Law. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. I want to know, colleagues and colleagues, does anyone want to discuss it? I see it's an interest. Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. I must say that I am also pleased that we will change the Constitution in a work that somehow expands or strengthens our rights. The right to drinking water is, in my opinion, an important element of social life in our future, we may not even be aware of it, because we live in a very watery country; but we also notice that some parts of Slovenia are already affected by the reduction or reduction of groundwater, that some water is contaminated; that water, even drinking water, is not self-evident. If we look wider, if we turn to the Far East, water is already a geopolitical factor, only if we look at the water relations that come from the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, which are kind of trapped in Turkey, and then dry periods or droughts in Syria, Iraq and Iran, and so on. It is more obvious that water is not only, say, a source of life, but also a source of conflict, wars and other inconveniences that we somehow want to prevent and protect ourselves from. The very creation of this law has been accompanied by certain changes, variants. I am pleased that the final version somehow provides the required number of votes. Of course, this will show up today in the vote. But perhaps I would point to the concerns I had myself, perhaps a little more of a legal nature, but still. It was clear that this right was already regulated in Article 70. That doesn't quite hold. 70. Article 70 of the Constitution states: "A special right of use may be acquired at public time under the conditions laid down in the law. The law lays down the conditions under which natural resources may be exploited. The law may also provide that natural resources may also be exploited by foreign persons and lay down conditions for exploitation." Article 70 does not specifically touch drinking water, but speaks of public goods, of natural wealth, of the special right to use, so that I think of this new dictatorship or a new 70.a article as an upgrade in the direction of insurance as a concrete right to drinking water and perhaps some upgrade in the sense of how to deal with it, who is the one who manages drinking water, how to give it priority to the care of the population and in what way; it is said directly through self-government and local communities. In article 70, as I read it, it has been repeatedly mentioned that in public goods a special right is obtained under the conditions laid down in the law. Next, the law lays down the conditions under which natural resources may be exploited. The third paragraph, the law may determine this and that. In article 70a, we do not have this provision, and I have repeatedly pointed out that it might be advisable to provide in article 70a for the management, supply of drinking water and similar issues covered by article 70a to be dealt with by law. Some have commented because, if not by law, what will happen; but I do not think that this is entirely self-evident, that the law can determine that some of these issues are also addressed by some lower acts, by means of sub-laws, by government regulations, by decisions of self-government local communities. I would essentially, let's say, feel more safe on the side of this right about drinking water if the diction was what I mentioned it many times. Regardless, look, it's a text that's supposed to have 60 votes provided, so I'm glad it's what it is. Any text that needs such a volume of votes requires a certain compromise, so that regardless of the concerns I have expressed, I will, of course, support today's change of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Zorcich. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. The vote on the first and second chapters and on the proposal for a constitutional law will take place in full accordance with the timing of the session today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on higher education. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, namely Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The new Higher Education Act, which is currently under consideration, pursues six objectives that are key to a modern and responsive higher education system. In doing so, we are following in particular the National Higher Education Programme by 2020, which was adopted in this National Assembly. In the draft law before us, we therefore place a predictable and stable system of funding for higher education, the openness of higher education outside and inside, the increasing flexibility of study programmes, the so-called transition to institutional accreditation, the establishment of an inclusive system for the management of higher education institutions, the monitoring of the employability of graduates, the reduction of student stalemate and faster integration into the labour market, and the consequent reduction of study time. The common point of all of this is the provision and development of the quality of higher education institutions in terms of educational and research excellence, involvement in a wider international space, the provision of autonomy, but at the same time responsibilities in achieving the development objectives of higher education institutions. This also means the first steps towards the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. As I have already stated many times, we will carry out its implementation in steps, including at the legislative level. The change in the law before us is the first but very important step in this direction. In parallel, when the process of this amendment is under way, there is also the preparation of the origins of the system law; not only of higher education, but also of research and innovation. The areas have several common elements related to content; these are still crucial for the future of higher education and science and development. In this way, the Ministry also implements the conclusions of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth and prepares a system law defining the public service, its scope, how to finance the public service, the conditions for access to higher education and so on. On this occasion, I sincerely thank all Members and Members, the entire professional and academic public and all the other stakeholders for their very constructive dialogue and contributions in the consideration of the proposal for this Act. I want and believe that this will also help us to cooperate with the new system law and thus create the key development bases for the development of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, Vice-President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which is held at the 21st regular meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. Ten. 2016 and 22nd ordinary session 3. 11. 2016 discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a general discussion was also held and the Committee also made a public presentation of the opinion. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative pointed out that the basic objective of the proposal was to implement the Constitutional Court decision and regulate financing in higher education; however, it did not define public service in higher education, which was related to financing the requirement resulting directly from that decision of the Constitutional Court. The second important part of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service concerned the teaching language in higher education and in this part the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the constitutional provisions on the use of the Slovenian language. The opinion was also presented by a representative of the Council of State, who warned, inter alia, that the amendment of Article 8 of the current law defining the teaching language in higher education institutions would reduce the quality of teaching and research and that this would be contrary to the Constitution and the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, New Slovenia and the United Left. Following the opening presentation of the bill by the Minister, the debate followed. In the context of the hearing at the first part of the Committee's meeting, a member of the Committee, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council of State, and in view of the fact that the proposal for a law does not define public service in higher education, which in connection with funding also requires a decision of the Constitutional Court, proposed, pursuant to Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a public presentation of opinions be made on the proposal for a law. Following the discussion in which the arguments for and against the proposed decision were presented, the Committee endorsed the decision. The Committee delivered its opinion on 13 October 2016. The discussion following a public presentation of the opinions at the second part of the Committee meeting, which was held on 3 November, took place mainly on Articles 1, 27 and 43 of the draft law and the amendments tabled to those articles. Notwithstanding the fact that the amendment to Article 1 of the Coalition Group deleted the provision of the amended Article 8 of the current law, which redefines the teaching language in higher education, the debate was mainly on Slovenian as a learning language. The discussion continued on Article 27, which sets out the funding from the budget, sets out the level of budgetary resources, the basic funding of universities, the financing of study activities and others; and the amendments to Article 43, which proposed a reduction in time to gradually increase the annual budget allocations for the study activity. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted today, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since the 21st meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 20th item of the agenda. We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day basis, this is a second defensively proposed bill on consumer credits within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government; the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! Allow me to present to you our proposal for a consumer credit law at second reading. You have before you a proposal for a law that builds on the current Consumer Credit Act with the rules of Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer credit contracts for residential property. The proposal for a law governs credit contracts in which the consumer acts as a borrower. It is proposed to adopt a new law regulating consumer credit agreements for real estate and other consumer credit contracts in one place. We believe that, in cooperation with all stakeholders concerned with the proposal for a law, we have drawn up a law in cooperation with the Government's Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which will ensure a high level of consumer protection without imposing unnecessary additional burdens on the economy. The key objectives pursued by the proposal of the law in comparison with the applicable law remain the same and are as follows: responsible lending and leasing of consumer credit through timely information to consumers in the main features and risks of credit, and through a careful prior assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness; ensuring transparent, stable and more efficient consumer credit markets with adequate control over credit providers and credit intermediaries. In preparing the bill we have taken into account numerous comments and proposals received by an independent consumer organisation or the Slovenian Consumer Union, as well as by the economy. In the legislative process, we have taken into account a number of substantive comments and comments of a nomotechnical nature which are before you in the form of amendments. The main solutions to the proposal are: the new definition of a credit agreement for real estate that expands the scope of the application of European rules and ensures higher consumer protection; the granting of a credit for real estate to the consumer will only be possible if the creditworthiness assessment shows that the obligations under the credit agreement are likely to be met; the introduction of a new category of so-called general information to consumers and the adjusted standard form for prior information on the main features of the real estate credit; the right of the consumer to convert a foreign currency credit credit from a foreign currency; the introduction of a mandatory real estate valuation; the obligation to obtain a credit intermediary authorisation to transfer consumer credit for real estate; and the establishment of a so-called passport for cross-border provision of credit intermediaries providing consumer credit loans for real estate. We believe that by means of a proposal for a law, we will ensure effective control of the consumer credit market by means of new more stringent measures in the event of infringements that can be committed under administrative control and higher fines in the criminal procedure. Dear Members and Members! I propose that you support the law at second reading and thus open the way for greater consumer confidence and easier decision-making in the conclusion of credit agreements and thus encourage the functioning of consumer credit. At the same time, I propose that, in the event that business conditions are met in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the draft law will also be carried out at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Mark Ferluga, Vice-President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State with the team! The Committee on the Economy is at its 21st session. 11. Considered the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent labour body. The Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law; the proposal of the amendment of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the amendment of the Association of Slovenian Consumers and the amendment of the Association of Banks of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by SDS Members' groups, the United Left and the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups. Members and members of the Committee were also invited to attend the meeting: the amendments of the Committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and the SD adopted by the Committee in the debate, as reflected in the report of the Committee; the amendments of the amendment of the Group's delegation to the 49th Article of the United Left. At its meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the comments of the services in the written opinion were mostly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the groups of Members. In the debate itself, the members and members of the committee generally expressed support for the proposed law; however, it was felt that the law and the proposed solutions would contribute to the responsible conduct of creditors and lenders, to the high level of protection of the economic and legal interests of consumers and to the provision of transparent and stable credit markets for residential property. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Group, the Joint Left stressed the need to further protect consumers in the area of housing loans themselves. With regard to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 7, the amendment proposed by the amendment stressed the need to further protect those consumers who rent loans in foreign currency. Following the discussion, the Committee, as it is said, adopted amendments to the Committee on the basis of amendments to the Committee's amendments to the Committee's Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also considered and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. He also addressed the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 7 and the amendments of the Joint Left to Article 12, Article 13, Article 23, Article 31, Article 34 and Article 36a to Article 42, Article 49, Article 52, Article 54, Article 57, Article 58, Article 61 and Article 91; however, the Committee of the said amendments did not adopt them. The amendments of the Joint Left Group to the 67th, 68th, 69th, 70th, 71st and 72nd Articles of the bill became irrelevant. After all this, the Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since the 22nd meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. If it's not of interest, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I see that today you seem somehow tired of this sad budgetary debate that we have had in the last two days. To refresh the memory of what we're even talking about. The Consumer Credit Act; the starting point of this amendment is the EU Directive, which is trying to regulate this area in such a way that, in this unequal relationship, the borrower will be given a visa to the provider of such forms of financing. Now I can say that this directive has been transposed in a way that we call it in a language that may not be over-comprehensible to lay people, minimum harmonisation. We have transferred something to our legal order that is minimally necessary; and no one with a little salt in their head will object because we still remember the story of credits in Swiss francs. If we remember many stories of so-called non-bank financing of grey, if not black, market, seduction, temptations, often even imposing some package solutions on non-learned borrowers, there are more than enough reasons for this law to further regulate this area. There is no excuse, of course, that, if we look within the European Union, our households are less accredited than in other countries of the European Union. Who under the age of 40 can afford such a legally regulated solution to a typical housing problem?Oh, my God! There's a problem somewhere else. We had a little talk about him in part yesterday when a single Member had to "pull out" Venezuela and he talked about how cooperatives are the relics of socialism and so on; but you have quite a strong number in highly capitalist countries, which, after all, Switzerland has 5,000. Sin also lies in the fact that the Law of Jasbine thinks that this problem does not need to be dealt with. But I'm not going to be too long to spread the darkness too much, because after all, it's an explanation of the amendments. We have repeated here the exercise that we have already carried out at the board meeting. "This coalition," says a number of civil society actors who have been working with the National Assembly for decades, "saying after some pretty big vehemence." It's a quote, end of quote. The Union of Slovenian Consumers, which has been monitoring all this issue for all this time, has tried to further improve this law for the benefit of all of us, including for the benefit of the banking and non-banking sector that offers these services and wants to offer it in the way of honest bankers, if I may say so. They were unable to do so. Therefore, in the United Left, we have tabled a number of amendments based on French, Austrian and German practice in solving this problem, and we have tabled these proposals from the Slovenian Consumers' Association. As the rapporteur rightly said, we have been voted on in this regard. In the retrial, we were limited by the closure of certain articles, which is the procedure. And we repeated this exercise once again in the articles where it was possible. I will not go through all the amendments now, but it is actually that whoever offers us credit also has more obligations to behave in a way that is fair to the banker and not to mislead the borrowers. In this regard, in an open article, we wanted to prevent non-bank lending to some charlatans, if I may say so, for someone — someone who might feel high — a defined minimum balance sheet total of 50 million. Further, allow currency conversions, more explicitly inform the consumer what happens when it happens, in banking markets as regards interest rates and so on. These are essentially the amendments we are re-investing. I won't be answering again. I would like to take over some serious reflection, similar to the preceding item of the agenda, which is constitutional matter. After all, there are probably many of us who have credit, including perhaps in Switzerland, we also have experience from this story, personally or at the level of larger or wider family members, or who knows someone as we like to say in a slang, from the business that such credits have led to the brink of bankruptcy or beyond; and that I do not supply this story. That is why it seemed necessary and more than responsible for us to re-amend the open articles of the Consumer Credit Act. Of course, now it is the responsibility of all of us and you to decide. That's briefly what this is about. However, I hope that we will finally get serious in this society and the country after a quarter of a century to talk about the housing policy, which is largely related to this; and also about some more appropriate support for the development of the economy. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I see there's more to the debate. Please sign up. The word has Mrs. Vojka Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I will not go back to what the law is following because it has already been said that it follows the directive; and through the directive, it will also protect consumers. I will respond more to a colleague who wants more protection for the consumer, but I think that the law is good and that it provides sufficient protection for the consumer. This, however, will be reinforced by the fact that the law also has implementing acts, which means that it has added rules and forms. If we carefully check these forms and examine them, we see that they are very precise in how the lender has to meet the information when the consumer expresses the desire and the need for credit. The creditor is obliged to write very precisely into this information from the amount of credit, interest rates, insurance, credit costs. This information is very extensive under the new law, I think it has about six pages here. We believe that there is no need to complement the individual amendments and to further define how they should be implemented, because this is very precisely defined in the regulations and forms annexed to the law. That is why we will not support this amendment and these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runk, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since I've been personally challenged, I have to take this. We already had this debate on the committee, Mrs Shergan said she came from the banking sector herself, that she worked at the bank once. She also said that more protection for consumers means less for consumers; well, this is the political platform of the Modern Centre Party, they have all the legal, legitimate right to do so. Then we had a debate, which was often spinning and repeating, about the twelve sides of the A4 format, that A4 format kind of came up with an expression. Serious international studies involving Slovenia for many years have shown that we are extremely functionally illiterate for such a developed OECD society. We are even more particularly functionally illiterate in the financial field. If someone believes that 12 sheets or one sheet of information will solve this problem and that then the borrowers will be much more educated, they will understand what they are actually going to do, if I put it that way, according to the practices that we have had, given this functional illiteracy, in view of all that they have told us from the Slovenian Consumers' Union and other civil society actors, let's say, the Swiss francs' credit lenders' association, lenients' association, leniently said, not to use any more severe, more juicy and sizable words. But in this way, actually through something that's probably going to be so formatted, it's going to push over the computer, it's going to kind of get a little bit into some kind of financial slob that's not much different from legal, human explanation. There will be no crazy hack, and most borrowers will also continue to burn in the mist, despite these annexes and the implementing acts that the lady spoke of before me. That is why these amendments are such as to say that they clearly explain to people things about credits, which also have fuses, as I have said before, that with a clause of 50 million we exclude some charlatans in a grey or semi-grey market, that they have some possibilities through this period of credit agreement to some changes to their benefit, that this area is finally regulated so that both are in this relationship in a more equal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan, there's no replica to the replica. Please sign up for the debate. Mr. Marko Ferruga, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. It has been found that this financial crisis has brought about a possible double thought, namely a non-educated consumer, we can also say, as France has said, not enough financial writing, if I may say, and on the other hand, a banker representing a double interest; once to lend credit, secondly, that he should look after and help the consumer, which has not happened. This discrepancy somehow this legislation in this part is trying to correct. In the past, bankers have excused their conduct by doing so and have seen no issue. In this proposal, however, this changes considerably. And if you'll excuse me, I would just quickly count the main advantages of the law so that we know what we're talking about. Provision of prior consumer information on credit and warnings of risk, advisory services as a personal recommendation to the consumer, careful assessment of consumer creditworthiness, valuation of property according to international standards, which is very important, including this awareness of the consumer's right to convert credit into domestic currency, the professional competence of employees and management staff, payment policies and business strategies of credit providers providing risk management and mandatory authorisation for credit intermediaries and cross-border intervention. However, specific shortcomings have been addressed: misleading advertising of the credit rate, inadequate information to consumers about changes in the credit rate, circadian lending, misleading advertising, incomplete information to consumers about risks. I think it's very important. With these amendments, we have also achieved some good things that were not previously in practice. Let me start at the beginning. On our proposal, we have put forward, which was lacking in law, the general principle of integrity and honesty in consumer lending. This is in terms of good faith and fairness under bond law, and it also offers an opportunity in court practice to properly form standard relations with the bank. I think this is a very important article. And one of such more important articles is, in my opinion, Article 45, which speaks of the valuation of property and the storage of records. Until recently, it has always been a problem here, even when renting these mortgage loans and housing loans, an estimate of the value of the property. Now Gurs database of the general market value of real estate can be used and then credit can be obtained on this basis. I think it's one of the great benefits of that. And then I'm going to go on one of these, I'm going to say, a very seductive topic with us Slovenians – consumer demand for cars. We're all kind of addicted to automobiles, nice cars, and buying them through a leasing; not adding any other adjectives to what comes next to the leasing. It is now legally arranged to protect the consumer who got or took into a lollipop car so that at the end the latter may not lose his car because his lollipop went bankrupt; but let him somehow take over this and buy the car without fear, without taking the vehicle or for various other business reasons. This important article for us, the Slovenes, has also come in. One good solution in this law is that the bank can no longer transfer its claims to consumers to any entity. If I put it in plastic, it means that there will be no more, at least it should not have come to your door by some shaved head with half a kilo of gold and in a black jacket, knock and tell you that you have to repay the loans; but it will probably work out, I hope, in some more cultural way. I think this law is to support it. It is clear that there are always, as is the coalition and opposition, different views on this solution; but I think this is a very good solution for this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan, will you discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! My colleague Marko has already presented very well why there is no need for the amendment to be supported. I would add here that whenever forms are met, even when an official meets them, it is very important that this contact of people is not just an official and it is only a gravely written and does not explain why he writes a thing and that he talks to the borrower. I think that's of great importance, but you can't put that in the law. This relationship between the creditor and the borrower is very important in the fulfilment of the forms. However, if we follow these forms, but they are prepared in good quality, the rules are prepared in good quality. I think they will also be able to be implemented in practice. Here I see that the law is also well prepared on this side, and I think it will also be possible to implement it on the ground in such a way that it will also be for consumers and especially for consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. For the first time, it is the transposition of Directive 2014/17/EU into our legal order. Well, it's not the only thing we're a little late to do. Of course, I support this bill, I think it's okay. What's he following? He's following two things. Firstly, protecting consumers from unnecessary and excessive exposure to such or other risks. Secondly, what is also important is to ensure the supervision of creditors, not just housing, but also wider real estate, although I believe that housing credit is also the most important or reflected in the largest amount of loans issued in the future. The result of each other is a transparent and effective functioning of the internal market without any excessive distortion or any distortion of competition. We have been or am I personally paying particular attention to the weaker side, which is certainly the borrower. The creditor may be protected in one way or another, inappropriately more than the borrower. I see that the law is written in such a way that the sum of cooperation between the parties can only win-win system, so that no one here loses. The borrower needs some financial means to solve his housing problem; normally, the lender and the bank live on credit. I don't want any new administrative obstacles. I do not want the bank not to lend, because it also needs an economy, and individuals need them. But if the bank is lying on the money, that's the worst thing that's possible. I am confident that this law will bring more order in this area. However, I am particularly pleased, as I can hear, and I was aware that all stakeholders – not to mention all of them now, especially the Slovenian Consumers' Union – have been taken into account in most of their proposals and that, as it is said, in the final sequence of lending, there will be no distortion of competition, credit will go, banks will also live well on this basis; and particularly the weaker side, that is, the lender, will not be unnecessarily and excessively exposed to all risks and will consequently lose funds and roofs above my head. I support the proposals of this law and give it my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, representatives of the executive branch of power, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! In opening, I would like to point out that I fully agree with the content of the amendments tabled by the coalition parties, and I also attach to the words of the previous speaker, who stressed - and I think that this is important for the content of this law - that the law and amendments are in line with all stakeholders. I am also joining this, in particular with the Association of the Slovenian Consumers Association. However, I would like to stress the importance of the content of this law. In these debates, many times we do not give very clear emphasis to substantive work. We are talking about consumer credits, which we know under so-called general-use items, and I would not define what all this means, because I think this is common knowledge. What I think about this consumer credit law, however, is that I am referring here to the words of respected Dr. Franz Trček, who stressed that so many years ago we had a bad practice in eastern Slovenia, mainly with consumer credits for real estate. And what this directive has brought and is incorporated into this law, I believe that it is sufficient that something similar will not happen, because through consumer credits and intermediaries at the time it was very evident that a number of consumers were misled. And as a result, in some way, this crisis or pain in individuals, I believe, even after so many years, is still present. This is the so-called bad practice by which transposition of Directive 2014/17/EU should simply make it impossible for such entities, which will now be able to perform in Slovenian space in accordance with this law. I would like to stress the following in particular. Firstly, this consumer credit law makes it very clear in the introductory part and in a fairly simple way for all users to be defined in Article 2 of the basic concept in order to get as close to individuals as possible in a sufficiently understandable way. However, there is something that is forgotten when talking about forms or so many previous procedures, and it is regrettable that someone who borrows money simply needs to be aware that he must also return it. And it is a perfectly legitimate right, and what has been said in the interview has already been said that it is in accordance with the Bond Act and could even list completely understandable and logical that the creditor wants to be protected in some form by this, we can say in a legal way, in the event that the loaned money is not returned. I would not be going on a second topic here, as with the so-called non-return of money, especially to legal entities, in the Republic of Slovenia for the past 20 years; but when we talk here about consumer credit, it is noted that the so-called consumer credit for general use items is not that much a problem, and the problem is for real estate, because here we are touching specific categories with social note. With regard to consumer real estate credits, we can say that we have two types of so-called stakeholders who will benefit or are already using some form of such credit. One is the one that is the most sensitive group, these are young people who are simply forced or forced to solve their housing problem because of their social status and existence. We certainly have a group of people at the same time, and we can also afford to purchase a property with a consumer credit. It is perfectly understandable that the creditor certainly wants to ensure legal certainty as far as possible. As a result, we know that such procedures are already being implemented; and also under this law, insurance is being carried out, we are aware of the Real Law, where agreements are being implemented through notaries. The fact is that what this directive expects of all of us, and of the legislator in general, is that the consumer, before going and doing such transactions, will have the opportunity to be informed of all the conditions. Clearly, the most important is also the amount of costs and also the repayment of these consumer credits. And if I conclude in this context, I believe that this consumer credit law provides sufficient protection on the one hand with the transposition of the directive and on the other hand protection in this case for the money giver. Finally, I wanted to mention another example of bad practice, which I hope will not happen in the application of this consumer credit law. I mentioned the case of northeastern Slovenia earlier eight, ten years ago. The second example, however, is known that those who took consumer credits for real estate indicated the amount to the so-called institutions or legal persons of an investment company. I hope this bad story doesn't happen in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for saying that again. From what my colleague Dušan said, one might even assume that the vast majority of such borrowers did not have a serious and good intention of returning this money, credits in their own way; of course, that is not true. Another time. I hope that with some development policies, I am still so optimistic, in this society and in this country, we will come to such an aggregate situation that people will not rent car credits because we will have good public passenger traffic; and that they will not be credited for a decade and a half or two decades or even 25 years for a housing hole that will then prove to be too much of a cost because we will solve it with more appropriate housing policies. And I hope that then this difference, this gap of financial ability, will rather be intended to acquire new knowledge or to travel abroad, that we will also see in practice how something works. We hear very often when we consider almost any law by the coalition that matters have been harmonised, the most widely coordinated. Thus we had some consideration of the law dealing with the union rights of police officers and police officers, and all three associations of municipalities were invited to the hearing, but not a representative union. What we have heard from the Modern Centre Party is perfectly aligned with civil society actors; if that were the case, then on behalf of the United Left I would not be explaining these amendments that we have tabled again in those articles that have been opened. And like I said, the direction of this type of novelty is the right one, but it's not enough. That's a message. I have some time left, ignorance, we are probably somewhat unfair to the people who are hiring credits, because now it would somehow sound here that all of them may be overly illiterate in this or any other area; but a large part of this lies in the fact that people have trusted those who went for credit, especially in the banking sector in the classical sense. And when we're talking about banking, not banking through some kind of performance, if I say so, financial lobbying; but some serious banking and some serious economy on which both are based? Based on trust, it's based on not being played. Member of the Modern Centre Party and I have followed some of the practices we have witnessed in the last 20 years. In this amendment of the law, unfortunately, the executive branch and the coalition kind of succumbed, I can't say anything else, to some banking lobby. We will not regenerate the matter by coming into a slightly more equal position between the two actors. And that is our purpose, but which, as indicated by this brief debate after the weary day of budgetary debates, will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 31 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the Members of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 57 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 67 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 72 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I conclude the debate in full. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 24th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day basis, this is a second-to-day proposal for a Central Credit Register law under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law establishes a central credit register containing information on the indebtedness of natural persons and business entities. This is an upgrade to the existing regime where Banka Slovenije already manages a system for the exchange of information on client creditworthiness under the Bank of Slovenia Act; however, only data on the indebtedness of natural persons are exchanged in this system. Therefore, the proposal for a law on data to be collected in the central credit register summarises the set of data provided by the Banking Act; it provides a new set of data on the indebtedness of business entities that can be exchanged between members of the information exchange system. Data for the Central Credit Register will be communicated by banks and savings banks and other lenders, such as companies whose dominant activity is the provision of credit services or the provision of financial leasing and factoring services; further persons authorised to provide financial immovable property services, payment service providers, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Eco Fund. The Bank of Slovenia will use data to carry out the tasks of managing monetary policy, ensuring financial stability, macro-prudential control and risk management, and exercising control over banks. The draft law also regulates the information exchange system on the basis of which data on the indebtedness of natural persons and business entities from the central credit register will be exchanged among lenders. Access to such data and information will enable lenders to assess the creditworthiness of creditors and more effectively manage credit risk. However, they will not be able to use this data for direct or targeted marketing. Furthermore, the proposal of the law allows a natural person and a business entity to be informed of all their own information exchanged under the information exchange system. This ensures the correctness of the data and improves the quality of data on the individual borrower. The establishment of a central credit register is also consistent with activities in the European banking area. Since 2011, the European Central Bank has been working to establish a single database for euro area members with detailed information on individual bank loans in the euro area. This base can only be established through the integration of national credit registers and the unification of national credit risk reporting frameworks. One amendment is proposed in the Act's supplementary proposal to include lenders among the mandatory members of the information exchange system whose dominant activity in relation to the revenue generated in the past financial year is the provision of credit services to natural persons. The amendment government supports the inclusion of these lenders by providing a sufficient set of data to provide a real picture of consumer debt. This will contribute to an even more effective implementation of consumer protection policies. In view of all the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a Central Credit Register Act. Finally, I would like to point out that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Government proposes that a third consideration of the bill be held at this meeting, as only one amendment is tabled in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ms Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Articles 42, 130 and 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, prepared a report to the Proposal for a Law on the Central Credit Register, secondly addressed, EPA 1447-VII. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 29th session. Ten. 2016 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a Central Credit Register Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 13. Ten. 2016, Amendments to the Slovenian Consumers Association of 20. Ten. 2016 and opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Trade, Tourism and Finance Council of 25 June 2016. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups, namely: 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. (amendment of 25. Ten. On the 12th, 13th, 15th, 16th, 19th, 20th, 22, 27th, 28, 30th, 33th and 35th Articles 20th, Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions and objectives of the proposed law establishing a central credit register as a centralised database of credit transactions with natural persons and business entities, as well as credit risks and other exposures to business entities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further drew attention to the comments of the Service on the clarity of the legal provisions and the explanation of the solutions proposed. Regarding the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, she explained that they followed the comments made by the service, but that individual issues remained open with regard to Articles 6, 7 and 35 of the draft law. In addition, the representative of the State Council explained in a supplementary explanation of the opinion of the State Council that the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the proposal of the law. In the short debate, support for the bill was expressed and it was also highlighted in terms of consumer protection. The need to take into account the comments of the service in the future preparation of legislative proposals and to raise a question on the legal basis for the establishment of a system for the exchange of information on credit transactions of business entities and the link with the cross-border database of data under the AnaCredit – analytical credit datasets project. In this regard, the representative of the Bank of Slovenia provided an explanation. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 19, 20, 22, 27, 28, 30, 33 and 35. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is one of the transition countries in which taxpayers have already been rehabilitated twice. This was the first time in the early 1990s that the second recovery of the banking system of more than €5 billion took place about two years ago. The question is whether this number is the last number for the banking system at the expense of the taxpayer's money. The government is proposing a law on the central credit register, which has been tabled in the procedure of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a Central Credit Register Act. In a way, we hope that this proposed law will improve the stability of the banking system and, above all, that this law will reduce the risk that taxpayers will have to rehabilitate the banking system for the third time. As has already been said, the objectives of the law are in the right direction and we expect this law to reduce the risk of things happening in Slovenian banks as they were before, and that banks would be subject to capital inadequacy, the need for recapitalisation; and above all, we hope that this law will significantly reduce the risk of poor claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will move forward with the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice to meet you, secretary. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a law establishing a central credit register containing information on the indebtedness of natural persons and business entities. A new set of data on the indebtedness of business entities that can be exchanged between members of the information exchange system is provided. Since 2011, the European Central Bank has been working to establish a single database for euro area members with detailed information on individual bank loans in the euro area. This base, however, can only be established through the integration of national credit registers and the unification of national credit risk reporting frameworks. Access to such data will enable lenders to assess the creditworthiness of the borrowers and, as a result, to manage credit risk more effectively. At the same time, it seems important that lenders of this information should not be allowed to use this information for direct or targeted marketing. The proposal sets out the Bank of Slovenia for the administrator of the central credit register. This data will be used to carry out its risk management tasks and to exercise control over banks, to manage monetary policy, to ensure financial stability and macro-prudential control. Data will be communicated to banks and savings banks, lenders such as companies whose dominant activity is to enter into credit contracts with other business entities or to provide financial leasing and factoring services, persons operating for the provision of financial immovable property services, payment service providers, DUTBs and so on. The proposal will, however, allow natural persons and business entities to familiarise themselves with the information exchanged under the information exchange system, thereby ensuring that the correctness of the data is checked and that the data quality of the individual borrower is improved. Because of all of this, we think the bill is a good one, so we will unanimously support it in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposed Central Credit Register Act establishes a centralised database of credit transactions and credit risk to business entities. This allows the Bank of Slovenia to establish and manage a central credit register with a view to carrying out a statistical survey to better carry out its tasks and powers in the field of monetary policy management, financial stability and macro-prudential supervision; in addition, through the exchange of information from the central credit register between members of the system, in particular on the indebtedness of legal and natural persons, there is also a more effective management of credit risk. This could be summed up in response to the consequences of the global and economic crisis, which also affected Slovenia. As a result, in Slovenia we carried out extensive measures in 2013 and 2014 to strengthen the stability of banks, which also stabilised the banking sector and restored the credibility of the country in international financial markets. These are the painful experiences that try to prevent such a central credit register. While the legal regime governing the centralisation of debt data constitutes progress in terms of the overall view of the level of indebtedness of the borrowers and the credit risk thus assumed, the positive aspect of the treatment of such situations that we have encountered. However, we must be aware that there is also the possibility of some abuses of such centrally collected data. In the context of the examination of the law, most of the debate was focused on protecting the privacy of users, in particular, questions about which data will be covered in the credit register and how long will they remain recorded in this register, who will manage them, who will have access to them and to what extent. All these questions have somehow led to the completion of the bill. In Article 15, we can think of a clearer definition as to which lenders may have access to the data in the credit register. Within the lending system, we would also like to highlight the following facts. Of course, we want and I think we should really work in this direction to have as many jobs as possible for an indefinite period of time, which also means better creditworthiness. In the fact that this has not been achieved in the last period to the extent necessary, one of the positive aspects of the introduction of the central registry is also that it allows for a wider view of who is creditworthy. Many times it turns out that those who do not have the opportunity to work indefinitely also have enough other resources to ensure their creditworthiness. This is also one of those important aspects that some investments in Slovenia begin to take place also because of a better view of the creditworthiness of those who may not have a job for an indefinite period of time. In all of these measures, we reiterate the importance of human dignity in all aspects of intervention. This is also the highest constitutional category and therefore the proportionality of these interventions is indeed necessary. Careful monitoring of what will happen to these registers will be one of the tasks that will be present after the adoption of this law. At this point, we are assessing, after a discussion on the working body, that this proportionality has been achieved, and we will also support the proposal for a Central Credit Register Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. In the United Left, we assess the basic purpose of the law relatively positively and therefore we will not oppose it. On the one hand, it must be found that it is too late in view of the behaviour of the banking and financial sector in the past decade; at the same time, we can be skeptical of its actual impact or the positive results that such a central credit register is expected to bring. The basic purpose is to establish a central database on credit risks and other exposures of businesses and natural persons, which should allow for more efficient credit risk management. This should be achieved by allowing banks and other lenders to access data on all customer debt transactions and related risks. The administrator of the central register is Banka Slovenije, who was the regulator of the banking system of the one that concealed itself from the financial and economic crisis or promoted a completely wrong policy before the crisis. Following a similar direction by the then first government, Janez Janša pursued a pro-cyclical policy that led to overheating the economy. The central credit register to better assess and review the creditworthiness of borrowers is a relatively limited mechanism. Much more important is the financial policy pursued by the regulator than by the government. Only by means of a meaningful regulator’s policy can such a register be a useful mechanism. These are not the only concerns about the Central Credit Register Act. Among other things, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia drew attention to the protection of personal data and to the lack of regulation in consumer credit providers. When it comes to large central databases, and especially when it contains sensitive data, it is always necessary to ask about the control and protection of such data. There are concerns as to whether the staff will be specially qualified to deal with these data and whether, as a result of voluntary entry into the database, companies or individuals may be able to misuse or forward the information. As we considered the previous point, the Consumer Credit Act, we could see that the Mira Cerar government listened to banking lobbying rather than to consumer organisations. Similarly, the Central Credit Register Act, where consumer credit is neglected, although the amendment coalition wants to slightly improve the situation. Consumers or households are like borrowers in an extremely subordinate position with regard to banks and other loan providers, so it is the task of the State to regulate the area sufficiently. However, in the case of a central credit register, hypothetical data on a natural or legal person may also be seen by staff in leasinghish or by providers of revolving loans. As it is said, in the United Left we will not oppose the law because its basic purpose is regarded as positive; we point out the limitations and, above all, the shortcomings which the coalition has not addressed during the consideration of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State Irena Sodin, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a Central Credit Register Act establishes a central credit register as a centralised database and information on the indebtedness of business entities and natural persons on credit transactions. According to the proposal, the Register would be managed by the Bank of Slovenia. This data would be used to carry out its tasks, including supervision of banking institutions. In order to use the register data effectively, the Bank of Slovenia will establish an electronic system for the exchange of data on the indebtedness of entities. With regard to the indebtedness of business entities, the law provides for a set of data which, in addition to the general data on the business entity, also includes information relating to the indebtedness of credit transactions. These are, for example, the type of business, the date of conclusion, the maturity date and the amounts of outstanding liabilities. In addition, data on exposure to business entities by type of business instrument. The exchange of information, in particular those on the indebtedness of entities, could be a contribution to more efficient credit risk management. The adoption of the bill could also, according to the applicant, constitute the fulfilment of the conditions for a link with the cross-border database of credit risk statistics under the AnaCredit project, which we welcome to Christian Democrats. The debate on the prevention of risks of irregularities within credit institutions is also linked to the effective sanctioning of criminal offences arising from lending processes. In New Slovenia, when dealing with irregularities in the banking sector, we point out that it is essential to specialise courts in order to effectively prosecute criminal offences so that the most qualified judges can deal exclusively with banking crime. We also need a specialized department for the prosecution of banking crime within the specialised state prosecutor's office and its human resources support. However, it should also be avoided that the supervisory board and bank administrations have been designated persons who have so far proved to be above average failures in the lending process. That is why in New Slovenia we have prepared a package of laws to prosecute banking crime, which includes all these solutions. When considering the proposal for a Central Credit Register Act, we are considering the establishment of a register that will allow better information to be provided to all those involved in the lending processes. This can lead to a more prudent and reliable practice in granting loans. However, at the time of considering this area in New Slovenia, we reiterate that the best guarantee is their private ownership for the more responsible conduct of credit institutions. We need new, good private owners. As long as we maintain the state ownership of banks, state banking, also the harmonisation of legislation with European directives and the introduction of positive legal solutions, according to our assessment, will not bring the key and fundamental changes we urgently need in Slovenia in this area. In Novi Slovenija we will support the draft law on the central credit register.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues; all together I wish once more a beautiful day! The recent financial crisis has well shaken the very foundations of Europe, many national states and also the euro. The financial sector was on the verge of breaking down, some systems were also kneeling, countries had to enter, as well as Slovenia with the money of all taxpayers. Let us also recall the Greek tragedy, the Irish and Spanish break of the real estate market, the construction sector and, consequently, the collapse of the banking system. Of course, this has led to savings and the worst, and many have been questioned by the social state, which has a traditional high place in Europe on a scale of values. The present proposal for the Central Credit Register Act, which we are currently considering, as well as the proposal for a Consumer Credit Act, which we have dealt with a few moments ago, represents a kind of response to this financial crisis; although at times it seems to us that the crisis has passed, sometimes it has never been, but still a high proportion of indebted companies in Slovenia is a major problem. In the past, we have also rightly wondered how it is possible for over-indebted companies to obtain new and new loans. Interesting. In its recommendations in the context of the process for preventing and eliminating macroeconomic imbalances, the European Commission stated that the creation of a single credit register would reduce the risk of over-indebted small and medium-sized enterprises whose level of bad loans is still high. The bill, which we will support in the parliamentary group, gives the legal basis for the Bank of Slovenia to establish a central credit register, which will represent a central national database on the indebtedness of natural persons and also business entities. The purpose of this register will be to improve the assessment and management of credit risk by lenders, to establish policies and measures for responsible lending and sustainable debt, and to prevent over-indebted natural persons and business entities and to carry out Banka Slovenije's tasks. This is mainly about risk management, macroprudential control, monetary policy management, financial stability and more. In addition to banks and savings banks, the reporting agents of the central credit register will also be other lenders, such as companies whose dominant activity is the conclusion of credit contracts, the provision of financial leasing services or factoring services, lenders providing financial real estate lease services, payment service providers, DUTB, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the Eco Fund and the Ministry of Finance or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments as the manager of the single treasury account system. We believe that this central credit register, which unfortunately came too late on the agenda, as presented, will make an important contribution to the emergence that the recent financial crisis has exposed and will act effectively as a protection on the one hand of consumers and on the other hand of lenders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament, how many of us are still here! The adoption of the bill provides a basis for the establishment of a central credit register containing information on the indebtedness of natural persons and business entities. This is an upgrade to the existing regime, as Banka Slovenije manages a system under the Banking Act for the exchange of information on the client’s creditworthiness, but only of natural persons. In the central credit register, data on the indebtedness of individuals as well as businesses will be collected. This will contribute to more efficient credit risk management, and this is what is expected for a long time in the Republic of Slovenia. The register will be managed by the Bank of Slovenia, which will use data to carry out monetary policy management tasks, to ensure financial stability, macro-prudential control and risk management, and to exercise control over banks. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we support the communication of data from Banka Slovenije by banks as well as storage facilities. However, it certainly makes sense that the transmission of data by as many legal persons as possible. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia, as has already been said, will also be reported by other lenders, such as companies whose dominant activity is the conclusion of credit contracts, as well as those entities that have been presented and dealt with in the preceding item of today's agenda. The law also makes sense that, under certain conditions, lenders will be able to exchange data from the central credit register. They will be able to assess customer creditworthiness and consequently effectively manage credit risk; however, they will not be able to use this data for direct or targeted marketing. In this context, it is necessary to state and present exactly what sets out the data set that can be collected and processed under the central credit register. Data shall be collected on borrowers who are natural persons, such as personal data on the borrower, credit transactions made by lenders with natural persons as borrowers, and information on the collateral taken over by natural persons for the liability of the borrower. In this part, it is therefore the transfer of the content of the Banking Act 2 (ZBan-2) in the work governing the system of exchange of information on the client's creditworthiness. It is certainly reasonable that it is possible for a natural person and a business entity to provide information on all information processed in the information exchange system, thereby ensuring that the data is correct and thus improving the quality of the data on the borrower. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we understand the need to establish such a register at the level of the euro area. Thus, the European Central Bank will have a single database with detailed information on individual bank loans in the euro area. This base can only be established through the integration of national credit registers and the unification of national credit risk reporting frameworks. In the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we are particularly pleased that the Union of Consumers of Slovenia stresses that this is an important law for consumers, as it regulates the supervision of consumer credit in the context of the central credit register and the exchange of data. For this reason, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a Central Credit Register Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article and the amendment tabled of 16. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this 24th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 24th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 20, 21, 24, 27, 28, 29, 40 and 1st agenda at the end. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Constitutional Act on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to deciding on the first and second chapters and on the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members, 60 or more, are required to adopt a constitutional law. The same applies to the adoption of an individual section. We're moving on to a decision on the first chapter. Mr Roberto Battelli has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I meant in my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Let me ask you first, is there any explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that the procedure for amending the Constitution, to complement the Constitution with a new 70.a., has started with one very simple tendency or with one very simple objective. It is that the right to drinking water is defined in the Constitution itself as a human right and is thus made accessible to all; and under the same conditions. In order to be able to do so fully, the objective pursued by the Constitutional Commission and also by the expert group was to clearly prevent the privatisation of water resources and to define drinking water as a non-profit public service that can only be carried out by municipalities directly and, crucially, without the granting of concessions. The arguments of opposers that we have heard repeatedly that the Constitution already contains this or that it already protects water resources or the right to drinking water, so that the laws of marriage are already sufficiently regulated, of course, do not stand. We may have good legislation in this area; and the fact is that laws can change this national assembly by a simple majority and this can happen at any time. The only protector we have left and must incorporate into the Constitution is to clearly record the status of drinking water in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, there are nearer or slightly less immediate threats to water resources and also drinking water as such, these are some external threats, of course the appetites of the multinationals who already want and will want to privatise these resources and also the content brought about by free trade agreements, as some members of the expert group have also pointed out. An important factor is also what are some of the internal dangers or dangers that humanity has caused itself; and these are climate change. The fact is that in Slovenia too in the coming period can be expected to reduce water wells, reduce the quantity of water available. That is why such a constitution means that in some way we provide water primarily to the inhabitants and the inhabitants and only then to the industry. In the United Left, we estimate that in this process, in this good year, we have prepared this law in an appropriate manner with the achievement of all the objectives. As a result, we will also support the Constitutional Law proposal in the United Left and thus make it clear that water resources and water are not something to trade with.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	Mr Jan Škoberne has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Vice-President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In the global world, resource management is one of the key advantages, one of the key features of those who will assume responsibility for long-term sustainable development and also for creating a global climate in the world. We are not just talking about environmental issues, but we are also talking about the responsibility for peace, which is far from self-evident. Water, especially quality drinking water, is one of the most important sources in this regard. And today, at least that is how we hope for the Social Democrats, we will conclude a process that has, to be fair, started in the time of the previous government. In addition, on our part, we thank the first-signed Lady Mag. Alenka Bratušek and everyone who's been involved in the process. What we have achieved is that we have recognised in the Republic of Slovenia that there are common values and resources that are supra-party and above-capital. It should be possible for future generations to have access to quality drinking water, regardless of the demands and aspirations of the free hand of the market, and that the issue of basic resources and access to basic resources for life will not become a social status issue or a question of who can afford quality living space and who can not. It is therefore particularly important that, in preparing this constitutional change, we have also listened particularly closely to the voice of the municipalities, the local self-government, because the mayors and local communities will, in fact, do what we hope to do today in the most important part. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this is far from enough and that we must continue with environmental policies. And if it may have been a criticism to hear that some of the key sources of fundamental constitutional human rights may have to be written down below, I fear that the situation in the global world dictates this. The situation, which is already elsewhere in Africa today, will require us to respond to global warming also by substantially changing the structure of our society and by a different perception of human rights. And quality life is a human right, a quality environment is a human right. The Social Democrats will support the entry of water into the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. Then there is the explanation of the vote in its own name. Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I cannot support this proposal. In fact, this proposal implies the irresponsible functioning of the democratic institutions of the country, assumes that they are not committed to providing drinking water for all the population, and in some ways forgets that no constitutional norm can protect us from our own stupidity or ignorance. I believe that this proposal is redundancies and wants to solve the problem – if we look at a comprehensive legal regime that is in force – that does not exist at all. The debate on the implementation of this change, which has already been regulated and perceived as self-sustaining, will now begin in an unnecessary way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the right to clean drinking water in the Constitution, we need to look at it in two ways. The first, in my opinion, is an environmental aspect, I believe that this entry of water into the Constitution at a symbolic level, that somehow the policy also begins to realize that sustainable policy must be cultivated to the environment; but that is why there is no need to change the Constitution. That is why we in the National Assembly need to adopt laws that respect the principles of sustainable development and green policies. But I still look at this positively, in view of the symbolic recognition of the National Assembly, of Slovenian politics to admit it. On the other hand, when we talk about the privatisation of natural resources, I am quite conservative, so I support it. Last but not least, I would say that we can write every living thing in this country into the Constitution and accept and agree; that we will put a thousand euros of pensions into the constitution so that we can give different rights. We also need to set up a mirror, because I was challenged again before, I listened in the office, even in Venezuela they have a lot of things written in the constitution, and it's not true. I am primarily in favour of policy change, not documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the first section has been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the second division. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the second section has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Constitutional Law proposal as a whole. We're voting. I didn't see it. I'm sorry. Explanation. Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! Today, for the tenth time in the history of the National Assembly and the Slovenian Constitution, we are changing the Slovenian Constitution. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will allocate 35 votes in favour of this amendment. 35 votes for the history of the Slovenian Constitution and for the future, for the healthy and green environment of our country. And I feel a little shaky on this occasion. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Also because of the personal memories we have at a time when we were able to take a very carefree bath in clean rivers and streams and drink clean water from them. [[…]] Our children, our grandchildren can't do this anymore. And this is the responsibility of the present to ensure that drinking liquid water is maintained. At the same time, concern for the future. Caring for the future, which means that we will guarantee to our coming generations at least the quality of life and nature that we have in abundance and that we must respect and treat with responsibility. Today's votes are the majority, the vast majority of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, civil initiatives, non-ideological, party burdens, mostly in finding solutions and protecting the future and nature, and ensuring that healthy drinking water continues to flow from our tentacles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Of course, our four votes are in favour. I am pleased that we have one last step ahead of us today to put the right to water into the Constitution on the proposal of the Alliance. Thank Desus, the United Left and the Social Democrats to support us from the very beginning, as well as the Modern Centre's Parties, that in the end we have provided enough votes for this important step, even though it may seem irrelevant to anyone. I am sure that it will prove to be very important in the future. Again, thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	I'm sorry, I'm embarrassed because I'm obviously going to spoil this holiday atmosphere a little bit. But if I go in line. "Everyone has the right to drinking water" – we support the New Slovenia Group to enter the Constitution. "Water resources are public good in the governance of the country" – we support the New Slovenia Group. The third paragraph, where it says, "Water resources serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households, and in this part they are not market goods", we support. However, we do not support the fourth paragraph, which says that water supply is provided by the State through self-government local communities. With this, you'll shut down the lice plumbing. I live in rural areas, in places where village waterworks are a fact, everywhere in Slovenia and are not managed by the municipality, not by public utilities, but by natural persons living in this village. This provision will remove the village water supply. But believe me, in particular, that there are very interested municipalities and communes to take over your plumbing where they work well, or where they have problems, they give them to municipalities, where they have no problems, and people continue to be interested in running the village’s water supply themselves. It's a thing that bothers us not to let people continue to supply themselves with water. Another thing that this constitutional provision has forgotten and completely bypassed has been pointed out by some naturalists. We are not talking about protecting water resources, or it is nice to write or write down in the constitution that everyone has the right to drinking water, but what if this drinking water is not properly and properly protected, if the water is not protected, then even clean drinking water cannot be provided. Another thing that also seems important to me is that we communicate it to people at this festive and festive time. People who live on the hills, in remote areas, who are still powered from the chapel and so on, even with this constitutional provision, will not come to normal drinking water from the water supply, because they simply have no money, no capacity, no knowledge that they would file a constitutional complaint that the State is now obliged to provide water under this constitutional provision. I apologize for perhaps ruining this moment of celebration. I sincerely allow you to celebrate it. As I said, in New Slovenia we are in favour of this right being enshrined in the Constitution, but we are against the abolition of village water.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Your Honor! The Slovenian Constitution, which is in force, already protects water. It protects it in the right way and twice; protects it as a natural resource and protects it as part of a safe, healthy living environment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to respect this norm and, of course, the National Assembly in the drafting of legislation, for which it is also recognised by the greatest advocates of this amendment that it is good that it is appropriate. It's called change, as it is, it's actually a more beautiful nature, it's a pierre. For what is essential, ladies and gentlemen, was the image we witnessed this morning. Nothing, even such a good formulation in the constitution, can protect us from a unconscious policy that is vehemently violating the Constitution long and hard. There is no protector here except human wisdom when people go to vote. What was the image today? The entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a constitutional lawyer came here to paint when a constitutional change was announced. Yesterday, however, the same government adopted its coalition in this National Assembly the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years in an apparently unconstitutional manner. Twice. Because, for the first time, the condition enshrined in the constitution itself is not met, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional lawyer is at the head of the Slovenian government, and it is necessary to form a special body that will be alert to the implementation of the fiscal rule. It's not like that. This constitutional standard has not been met and therefore the budget has already been adopted in an unconstitutional manner. Moreover, the budget was adopted as a fictitious budget, like what we call vaporware in computer science, something that everyone is talking about, but it doesn't really exist. Why? Because no previous negotiations with the public sector have been concluded, the principle of social partnership has not been fulfilled, but it has been gravely violated by the adoption of a budget in some form that it will not be able to apply at all. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a violation of several articles of the Constitution. And before that, it doesn't protect such a good record in the constitution. If I remember anything else when it comes to making a sense of security, but once again, water is protected. If anything was wrong, it is the one who has a government that does not implement these standards in the right way. But when it comes to security, look at the example, last year this same government violated not only the Slovenian Constitution and legislation, but also the international rules, which, by the Constitution, apply directly when it launched half a million migrants across Slovenia, including terrorists. And they talk about security and talk about constitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen, before that, it's pretty good. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. We are another country in the European Union that has entered the right to drinking water for all in the Constitution. So another country for Slovakia, which has already done so, and I think it is right that this is very important and today is why it is important for us in Desus too. The right to drinking water must be reinstated in the Constitution, for article 70 speaks of the law laying down the conditions under which natural wealth can be exploited. The law may provide that natural resources, including drinking water of course, may also be used by foreign persons and the conditions for exploitation and so on. In short, this is not enough, in our view and in the opinion of all those who have engaged in this area to enter this right into the Constitution. For the Constitution is more difficult to change because we need a two-thirds majority or need a two-thirds majority for it, while we can change the law by a simple majority. So it is very important that we enter into the Constitution of 70a, which states that "Water resources serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households and in this part are not market goods. The supply of drinking water and household water is provided by the State through the self-governing local communities directly and without profit." It is also important that we have agreed in the coalition to bring the laws that will determine the implementation of this Article 70a into line within eighteen months, that is, even during this coalition. In short, if I conclude, we will contribute eleven votes to the Desus Group for the adoption of this law and the amendment of Article 70a, i.e. the entry of the right to drinking water into the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	We are. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will support this law primarily from this point of view, because today we can all agree that we now have this legally well-ordered, all we are doing right now is raising it to a higher level of protection, and that seems to me to be good, right and smart. However, I must also say that my holiday atmosphere has not been damaged by Mr Tonin, which is why it is necessary for law to be read, and if Mr Tonin reads it, he would see that the right to drinking water is exercised in two ways, either through self-sustainment or via public water supply, which means that we will not abolish any of your plumbing. In addition, it is also ensured that the State commits itself to ensuring the quality of water resources, which is described in point one, that the country with water resources is simply managing and, of course, also takes over the protection of water resources, and then continues to do so. Thus, the practical atmosphere can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the constitutional law has been fully adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Constitutional Act on Supplement III will be adopted by the National Assembly. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia declared to be the eighth day following its adoption. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Credits under the ordinary procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 47. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 50. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 23. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 58. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 29. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 31st Article under number 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 53. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 31(2). We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 42. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 53. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 52. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 55. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 57. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 53. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 67. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 72. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the representative of the proposer proposed, in a supplementary explanation of the draft law, that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A Third Review of the Proposal for a Law will be held by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 22. 11. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Draft Law on the Central Credit Register in the framework of the regular procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 16. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the representative of the proposers proposed that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A Third Review of the Proposal for a Law will be held by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 22. 11. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and an article to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving on to 27. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE, IT IS TO THE DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL’S RATIFICATION OF THE PROTOCOL ON AMENDMENTS OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA ON THE AVOIDATION OF DOUBLE DUTIES AND THE PREVENTION OF DEFINITIVE INSTRUMENTS RELATING TO THE REVENUE TAXES SIGNED IN LOVE 13. JANUARY 2003 The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Last year, the trade between Slovenia and India amounted to €310 million, rising, and this year's data is also encouraging. This is also one of the reasons why international treaties need to be taken care of and upgraded in line with trends in this area, of course they are particularly intensive in the field of tax policy. Since 2006, the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion relating to income taxes has been applicable between Slovenia and India. The Convention allows the elimination of double taxation through various mechanisms, increases the security of taxpayers, prevents tax discrimination, allows the resolution of tax disputes and also the exchange of information for tax purposes. By a protocol signed by Slovenia and India on 17 May 2016, the Convention shall be updated by amending the Article dealing with the exchange of information for tax purposes while adding a new Article on the assistance provided to States in tax collection. Since the Convention was signed in 2003, the existing version does not reflect significant progress in the field of information exchange, an article relating to the exchange of tax information between the competent authorities was amended in the OECD Model Convention — that is to say, it applies to the conclusion of such arrangements — already in 2005. The text of the Article differs from the text of the Article of the 2003 OECD Model Convention in that it allows for a wider exchange of tax information in accordance with the internationally accepted standard adopted at the level of the OECD Member States. As already mentioned, a new article relating to assistance in tax collection is also included in the Convention with the Protocol. The Article will allow signatories to provide assistance in the recovery of taxes and in the insurance of the recovery of tax claims. Dear Members and Members! For the reasons presented, I propose that the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention between Slovenia and India on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Period of the agenda, it's a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Paris Agreement represents a new global framework in the fight against negative climate change, which is the result of human non-sustainability and is probably the last opportunity for future generations to leave the world, which will be more stable and healthier, with fairer societies and more successful economies, was unanimously adopted by nearly 200 countries of the world at the United Nations climate conference last December in Paris and then signed at the Earth Day event on 22 April 2016 by most countries of the world, including Slovenia. The signing was followed by a ratification process leading to the historic rapid entry into force of the agreement. A decisive contribution was made by the European Union, which ratified the agreement early this October and thus helped to fulfil the conditions for the implementation of the agreement within less than one year of agreement. To date, 110 Parties to the Convention on Climate Change have ratified the Agreement. The Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement on behalf of Slovenia is prepared in accordance with Article 175 of the Law on Foreign Affairs. In addition to the European Union, the Agreement must be ratified by each Member State of the European Union. The instrument of ratification of the Agreement shall then be deposited with the Depositary of the Convention with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The agreement covers the long-term objective of global climate policy and means maintaining an increase in average global temperature significantly below two degrees Celsius in terms of pre-industrial level, a level that can protect us from the catastrophic effects of climate change while continuing efforts to maintain global temperature below one and a half degrees. In order to achieve this objective, the Parties have drawn up their national commitments. In accordance with the Agreement, every five years from 2023, the Parties will review the state of play at global level on the basis of the latest scientific findings and the implementation of the Agreement, in which they will monitor progress in the implementation of the Agreement and provide assistance for the implementation of international climate policy to developing countries. The European Union and the Member States will implement the Paris Agreement for the 2020 to 2030 target period through implementing legislation requiring at least 40% domestic greenhouse gas reductions in the European Union by 2030 compared to 1990 emissions. The new climate agreement sets out an ambitious but necessary plan on the road to sustainable development and a carbon neutral economy and society, is a universal, long-term, legally binding document, a balanced and fair document and for the first time includes all States Parties to the Convention and not just developed countries. In Slovenia too, the new agreement will encourage new green investments, new jobs, a healthier and friendly environment, efficient use of renewable energy and other natural resources, with the gradual abandonment of the use of fossil fuels, with the aim of moving to a carbon neutral economy at the turn of the second half of this century. With the ratification of the Paris Agreement alone, Slovenia does not assume new or additional financial obligations, but they will be indirectly included in the implementing legislation for the European Union's climate and energy framework by 2030. The implementation of the agreement and the direction and coordination of long-term climate policy will be carried out in Slovenia by the Ministry of Environment and Space, in cooperation with other ministries, local communities and other stakeholders in the field of climate change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you, President. The Paris Agreement, which is ratified today, sets a long-term objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in line with the requirement that global average temperatures rise significantly below 2 degrees Celsius in relation to pre-industrial levels. Moreover, it provides for continued efforts not to exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius in relation to pre-industrial level. In order to achieve the objective of the Paris Agreement, the Parties will in the future prepare, communicate and maintain their commitments or so-called national specified contributions. Slovenia does not yet have national contributions, all we have is the common objectives of the European Union. Ratification of the agreement will be an important step for Slovenia, that is to say, in the fight against climate change, but this will only be the start of major efforts to achieve the commitments made. In this regard, however, the efforts of this government are weak, if not bad. As we can read from the proposal for a ratification law, the direct financial impact of the implementation of the 2030 agreement is estimated at EUR 1.02 billion. This is 400 million less than the investment in TES 6 and three times less than the projected investment in the second block of nuclear power. It is also clear from the explanation that we intend to replace fossil fuels mainly with biomass and the construction of new hydropower plants. Here it is forgotten that in the construction of large hydroelectric power plants we are approaching a state of exploitation when, without significant environmental damage, the capacity will no longer be able to increase. Solar energy is nowhere mentioned in the explanation of the law, despite the great potential, technological rise and increasing affordability of solar technology. It is clear that more than innovative solutions to reducing CO2 emissions, the ruling set with the Minister of Environment and Space at the forefront is looking for ways to negotiate the smallest possible commitments within the European Union. Many hopes are being invested in the emission coupon trading system, which has not been proven to have had the expected effects to date, and flexible carbon sinking mechanisms. In addition, declining electricity prices in the world are increasingly talking about subsidising fossil fuels. Last year, the International Monetary Fund issued a report identifying countries as earmarking $5.3 trillion of annual fossil-fuel-related subsidies to the industry. Slovenia is no exception in this regard, with the construction and state guarantee for TES 6 being the most in the sky-slipping case. In addition, in Europe and in our country, we are increasingly thinking about purely direct support schemes for fossil fuel generation, which is, last but not least, reflected in the latest state of energy report in 2015 prepared by the Energy Agency. Leaving fossil fuels underground is the best imperative for a truly carbon-free society. In the United Left, we will support the Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Paris Agreement, and we expect the Government not to fight for the greatest possible climate discounts in post-ratification negotiations at European Union level, but to take ambitious action on climate measures, both to reduce emissions and to adapt to inevitable climate change. This is not only about the national interest of Slovenia, but it is about something that is much more real. It's about the welfare and survival of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Dear Mr President, all those who monitor the environmental issue are respected. The time we live on and the situation in the international community is no longer the same as that of the late 20th century. The past period has been strongly favoured by major topics for the future, for joint action, for the taking of responsibility and for the fair sharing of burdens. Instead of the idea of collectiveism and cosmopolitan consciousness, the challenges of the 21st century in the international space have put in place a partisan approach aimed at individual benefits and avoiding the burdens on another. We are faced with the negative consequences of the globalisation processes, which naturally encompass all the corners of our planet and not just the places of origin. Individual approaches to dealing with the negative consequences of globalisation do not depend, in the worst case, even potential. Examples of this are migration, which closely coincides with climate change. For them, the international community still does not have the right answer. A high tax on mistreatment of nature in one part of the planet is being paid to all earthlings. The paper, though, carries many things, but the natural environment in real time shows the consequences of our way of life, which led to instant comfort instead of sustainability. For everyone, the visible consequences of climate change are most due to the fact that the Paris conference on climate change could not have ended differently than the agreement. Some, however, have shown a lack of ambition with regard to the acceptance of commitments. Among them comes the limit of raising the average global temperature below 2 degrees Celsius by the end of the century according to the pre-industrial age. However, if we place it in a modern context, in which the topic of the threat to the security of countries prevails, the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement on 12 December last year is, nevertheless, not a minor achievement, the achievement of the international community of the 21st century. The Agreement entered into force 13 days ago. The necessary threshold for its implementation was reached by ratifications by the two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, the USA and China. The Republic of Slovenia, through today's ratification, which will be supported unequivocally by the Modern Centre Party Group, joins the 110 Parties to the Agreement, which have demonstrated a clear commitment to address climate change in a coordinated manner with others. Early ratification will give the Republic of Slovenia a legitimate right to co-form a global environmental policy for the future during the Marrakesh climate conference. Although the agreement will begin to be implemented in 2020, it will start now in part, with the responsibility for it being borne by all countries, from large to the smallest. In addition to the responsibility to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions, developed countries are under an obligation to help developing countries implement long-term climate policy. The Republic of Slovenia will fulfil the maximum share of its obligations in accordance with the European Union Climate Energy Framework. In the SMC Group, we stress the importance of knowing that we are not taking on these obligations because of the European Union and its institutions, but because of ourselves and our craftsmen. So let today's Slovenian event be a confirmation of our sustainable thinking. It should also be in operation in all areas and at all relevant levels from an individual attitude to nature to the way in which we develop our attitude towards the environment as individuals, as a policy and as a society in one of Europe's greenest countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. It's 76 and no one's. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and Central America on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, the amendment at the meeting of the assembly cannot therefore be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There's 72 votes and no one's. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 40. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We move to the examination of the proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of mags. Aleksandra Karakaš to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mark Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal of the Council of Justice to appoint a senior judge of mags. Aleksandra Karakaš from the Supreme Court of Maribor to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of Justice has carefully considered the application of the judge in question. In doing so, he examined the documentation from which the judges produced excellent results and also took into account the opinion of the Criminal Section of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court, who supported the candidate. After all, the judge also proved outstanding in his interview with the members of the Council of Justice. The complication, however, appeared on the National Assembly's Mandate-Immunity Commission, where one of the parties presented the Committee's 2015 material which clearly reveals a violation of human rights to the judge. As President of the Chamber of the Supreme Court in the Kangler and Jezovit case, he was not to take due account of the complaint that required the disclosure of evidence against Mr Kangler because these were to be obtained by violating the right to impartiality of the judge, since the covert measures against Mr Kangler were ordered by Judge Žirovnik, who was supposed to be in a dispute with him earlier. As a consequence, the mandate-holder commission asked the Council of Justice to define up to these views against the candidate. The answer of the Council of Justice was that it was not competent to open specific cases and to proceed to the decision of a judge. This Council of Justice, when deciding on judicial appointments and promotions, never does. We look at the success of the judge through statistics, working methodology, complaints and success and so on. Regular and exceptional legal remedies are available to assess legal regularity in specific decisions. The only way to look at this particular issue would be to find that the basic standards of expertise have been completely violated. That's not what we've been able to figure out in this case. After all, from the judgment itself, we do not know what the opinion of the said judge was, since it was signed under a judgment, as always, by the President of the Senate, but we do not know how anyone voted. In addition, no court found the said violation of human rights: neither Supreme, nor Constitutional, nor the European Court of Human Rights. A civil society organisation that is developing into a political party and a retired constitutional judge, with their opinion, opposes the views of the judge. In such a case, then, should we overlook what legal rules tell us? Have we fought for such a legal state and struggle every day to run it so easily? Dear Members and Members! The complication of the Mandate-Volution Commission seems to me after a sleepy night, in fact, a misunderstanding. Our message was misunderstood. This was probably also due to the lack of time when this point was concluded before the further important work of Members and Members. If we had more time, I am sure that the vote would turn out differently. There was certainly no measure of muscle between the constitutional authorities, since the powers of the National Assembly regarding the judiciary in the Constitution and legislation were clear. The National Assembly has the last word. But this should be exercised with restraint, wisdom, and discretion. For example, a candidate for a judicial post supported by the Council of Justice would also be able to refuse the National Assembly, but in cases that are particularly justified. This is certainly not the case in this case. Dear Members and Members! You have an extremely important task ahead of you. The constitutional principles on the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law are not only a mere constitutional provision, but they are the key values of our state regulation. Western democracies have taken them very seriously, and they have also been successful for so many years. Of course, the responsibility of the judiciary is also important, which we keep on the watch, believe me. Through the responsibility and independence of the judiciary, the reputation of the judiciary is built. For example, who will trust Turkish judges who have been so overwhelmed by Erdoganism? Even closer to us, in Poland, in fact, a full-year democracy has been struggling with the country's birth problems. We don't belong there. I'm sure our legal culture can be on a higher level. Dear Members and Members! I believe in your sobriety and prudence; I believe that you can act in a state-of-the-art way and support our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	Procedurally, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. As the leader of the Member's Group of Members, I do not have the opportunity to report to the debate, but I am very much respectful of the position of the Council of Justice. I think he's very professional. It is, however, the fact that the opinion prepared by the Council of Justice – it somehow seemed to me that we went back to 1970 when we had to deal with external enemies. Perhaps I would suggest to the Council of Justice that in the future, when it prepares similar views, it still looks at the calendar and sees that we are in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	Besides, I don't know what this has to do with procedure. The second conclusion is that you had time to apply yesterday until 12 like any other Member in this National Assembly. There is no need to use procedural means to express an opinion that is otherwise intended or intended to be expressed. In addition, I ask you not to offend other branches of authority. The constitutional balance means that we have normal communication and that what has been said explains a lot, at least to me personally is relevant information. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate as the working body of the State, which submitted a proposal for a decision to the Assembly and proposed that it should not be accepted by the National Assembly. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Honourable President of the Council of Justice, Members and Members of Parliament! The Commission's term of office is at the 26th session of the 13th session. Ten. 2016 and its first follow-up 10. 11. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which was addressed to the National Council of 15. 9. 2016 submitted by the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice, pursuant to Article 130 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 28 of the Law on the Courts and Article 21(3) of the Judicial Service Act, proposes to the National Assembly for the appointment of mags. Aleksandra Karakaš to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The powers of the Council of Justice, which, inter alia, is competent to propose to the National Assembly candidates for election to judicial office and to decide on the progress of judges, the conditions for the election of a judge and the appointment of a judge, shall be laid down in Articles 7 to 14. The proposed candidate, mag. Aleksander Karakash was elected as a judge in 1997. If the Council of Justice elects a candidate who has already been elected to a judicial post, it shall, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 21 of the Judicial Service Act, appoint him to a judicial post and transfer him to a court in which the place is designated, if the case is a higher court, for promotion to a higher court office under Article 24 of this Act. Notwithstanding the latter provisions, it shall decide on the appointment of the candidate as Judge-in-Chief and his transfer to the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. In the selection of the candidate for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, with the envisaged allocation to the criminal law area, complied with the provisions of Articles 18 and 28 of the Judicial Service Act and complied with the criteria laid down in this Act. On the basis of these, he identified the candidate’s expertise, capacity to perform the judicial service or whether he met the conditions for progress. It follows from the proposal of the Court of Justice that the selection procedure was conducted in three phases following itself in the following sequence: verification of the fulfilment of the tendering conditions, assessment of the eligibility of candidates, oral interviews with the candidates applied for. Mr Marko Novak, President of the Council of Justice, took part in the meeting of the Commission as a representative of the proposer, who further explained the proposal. He pointed out that it was a candidate with an in-depth and wide-ranging expertise in criminal matters. Statistics of past years show that both the scope and the content of the work for a good judge are important, since according to the number of cases resolved and the low percentage of decisions cancelled, it is a positive departure from the average of the other judges. Members and members of the Commission took note of a letter from the Committee 2015, which was forwarded as additional material to this point by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, at the time of its consideration of the proposal by the Council of Justice. By letter to the Committee 2015, the National Assembly recalls the inadequacy of the candidate for appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice, stating that, as President of the Senate of the Court of Appeal, France Kangler has committed serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The members of the Commission considered that any doubt as to the suitability of the candidate should be excluded, so the Mandate-Election Commission decided to terminate the examination of the point and obtain from the Council a definition until the letter of the Committee of 2015 of 12 March 2015. 9. 2016 as regards the indications relating to the proposed candidate. The Council of Justice shall be in response to the Mandate-Electorial Commission of 4. 11. 2016 pointed out that the decision of Members to appoint a judge should not be based on their assessment of the appropriateness of the candidates' decisions in specific matters. In doing so, he referred to international recommendations whereby the content of the judge’s decision could be tested through regular and exceptional remedies. The members of the Commission considered that the Council of Justice did not provide any substantive answers to the evidence on the appropriateness of the proposed candidate, but merely a general position and a reference to the Council of State that it must respect the fundamental principles of law and the division of power when deciding on the election and appointment of judges. They considered that the latter could be understood as a lesson to Members regarding their presence in the elections and the appointment of judges. They pointed out that they expected clarifications from the Council of Justice on the basis of which they could decide in accordance with their constitutional competence, i.e. arguments which would convince them that it was a judge who performed his duties fairly and in accordance with the Constitution and laws. As the Council of Justice did not do so, the members of the Commission considered that they did not have sufficient information on the proposed candidate, and the leader of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre announced that the members of their Group of Members would vote on their own conscience. Following the debate, the Commission voted on the motion for a decision appointing the Supreme Court of Justice to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by which Mag. Alexander Karakash, and she didn't accept him. The vote was one vote in favour and twelve votes against. Taking into account the above, the Mandate-Volution Commission proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Supreme Court Judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the Supreme Court is appointed to the Supreme Court of Justice. Alexander Karkash, and is attached to this report, does not accept. I sincerely apologize, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, but because of the reverberation of the matter, I have spent more time than I originally intended, spent and will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! An important feature of our regime is the division of power into a legislative, enforcement and judicial branch. The latter, therefore, is, as a rule, the most important of all is its independence and independent decision-making and judgment under the Constitution and the law. For the independence of the judiciary, the sustainability of the judicial function and, last but not least, the way in which judges are appointed is important. According to our constitutional order, judges are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice, which, as an independent body, oversees the professional competence of candidates and ensures cooperation between the legislative and judicial branches of power in the appointment of judges. The arrangement whereby the National Assembly elects judges is unusual and unprecedented in both European and other countries. In comparable constitutional arrangements, judges are generally appointed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Council of Justice or by the Council of Justice itself. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware of and recalling the problem of our system that it is finalizing a decision to appoint a judge, a body which is by its very nature political. This way it undermines the principle of power-sharing and introduces elements of political choice in the process that should not be present in the courts. The judicial function is not a political function, but a professional function, but a career and a professional career from the judge's point of view. Therefore, consideration of the appropriateness of the legal arrangements for the appointment or election and promotion of judges and the relationship between the Council of Justice and the National Assembly is clearly required for a comprehensive consideration, but not on the shoulders of the candidate we are deciding today or in the future of any candidate or candidate. There is no doubt that the National Assembly must decide only on the candidate proposed by the Council of Justice and that it is independent in its decision-making. This autonomy should not, however, mean that the National Assembly may refuse a candidate who fulfils all the professional and other criteria. Of course, the National Assembly must not only reject a candidate who does not meet these criteria. In the specific case of Judge Aleksandr Karakash, the Council of Justice found and submitted its expert opinion that the candidate met all the conditions laid down and proposed him for election to the National Assembly. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party accept the proposal, explanation and reasoning of the Council of Justice in a specific case and we note that the candidate meets the conditions laid down for election as Judge-in-Chief. Accordingly, we will support the candidate for election to that function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr President of the Council of Justice! [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	First of all, let me say that your performance today, Mr President of the Council of Justice, has proven once again what a sophisticatedly arrogant way to choose the judicial system to the legislative branch of power when it wants to force the appointment of candidates for certain functions. On the other hand, the Council of Justice has proposed to the new Supreme Judge, Mr Alexander Karakash, who has not received the support of the coalition and opposition members on the Commission of Elections, and today the Council of State must decide on this proposal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we repeatedly point out that the justice system needs fundamental changes, both in terms of content and in terms of human resources. Above all, the judicial system is completely free of self-reflection, which, respectable colleagues and colleagues, is a prerequisite for improving the functioning of the judicial system. Even if we look at the justice system more broadly, we can see that more than 70% of people do not trust in the justice system, but at the same time the international scales show a fall in the functioning of the rule of law and respect for human rights. We have also been reminded of this by the European Court of Human Rights, which says in its report that Slovenia is the country that has most often violated human rights, in particular the right to a trial within a reasonable time. At the same time, again and again, we are also alerting, in particular because of all these human resources problems and problems that we have on the Commission's mandate again and again, that it is necessary to carefully and carefully propose candidates for such responsible functions, and in particular to propose those who have not violated human rights in their work. Mr Karakash, the candidate for Chief Justice, is most famous in the case of Mr Franz Kangler. For he is the judge who confirmed the judgment which was later annulled by the Supreme Court, and to Mr Franc Kangler, human rights were violated. This is what the current judge in the European Court of Human Rights, Mr Marko Bošnjak, has always pointed out, as well as some other constitutional lawyers, for example, as he said earlier, retired Constitutional Judge Dr Cyril Ribičič. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always been a messenger of those who have been violated by human rights. And we have always fought for the rights of these people, and we will always fight for the rights of such people who have been violated by human rights. We therefore believe that judges who have violated human rights do not belong in the highest courts. The reply of the Council of Justice, which was sent to the Commission of Mandate concerning Judge Karakash and violations of human rights, was also unworthy and arrogant. In the last paragraph, you wrote in the Council of Justice: "This is why the Council of Justice fully insists on the proposal and stresses that the procedures for the appointment of Supreme Judges in the National Assembly must not be changed into a communication that judges should be cautious in their decision-making, as progress to the Supreme Court will be prevented if they do not decide as they wish to do in particular political options." But respectable colleagues and colleagues, honourable President of the Council of Justice, we all probably know that judges must decide only on the basis of the Constitution and only on the basis of laws. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal. Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. I'm a little embarrassed. By the way, did Mr. Horvat or his colleagues at SMC report her as a lobbyist? In fact, see, the decision of Thursday's meeting of the Commission was more or less unanimous, only colleague Zorčič supported Mr Karakš; everyone else opposed the proposal. In the meantime, nothing has happened and no lobbying contact has been reported on the Anti-Corruption Commission’s website with the Mir Cerar Party by the Council of Justice. In the meantime, the SMC opinion turned 180 degrees. They did so-called "In Turn." By highway traffic regulations, this is forbidden. You can be engulfed by a police officer. Clearly, though, politics is changing the way someone writes a comment in a diary or perhaps someone calls someone. How does someone then trust the real decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which is so unanimous, if, for no reason, this body or the largest customer in this body completely changes its position? Then why is this topic even on the Mandate-Election Commission if in the meantime you turn the members of the SMC completely? Look, politics is about principle. We on the Commission of Mandate have not asked the Council of Justice nothing but to be self-assessmentd, rather than to make a self-assessment of the exposed perceptions and to make a decision on the basis of this self-assessment of the judiciary. In response to this unanimous decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we have received a rather unpleasant and unkind letter from the Council of Justice. I don't think there's ever been a letter like that in the National Assembly. I believe that such a relationship by the Council of Justice has not yet been received by the members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and on this basis all members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, with one exception, which I mentioned earlier, have decided not to support this proposal. For we have been commanded that we have nothing to decide about what the Constitution allows us to elect judges, but that we simply have to confirm. Then it takes a few days and the moral-ethic standards are switched on, and probably a telephone or electronic line has been switched on before, and today we have a completely different position. See how an average citizen should then trust such a policy, such a coalition, which within a few days completely changes his position? What is not acceptable today is all of a sudden acceptable tomorrow. Unless the opening presentation of the President of the Council of Justice was so convincing to you that you have forgotten all the concerns expressed earlier and that you have just embraced this proposal and will morally and ethically support it. Then I don't know if these speakers at the phone booth on the left, central and right don't communicate any other messages, because the gentleman didn't convince me. Thank you. That is why I cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	Only the discussers have the replica. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much, President. I would like to ask you to warn Mr Logar that he does not assess what and what has not been done by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The modern centre's party to the said Commission's mandate was to raise questions about the relationship of the Council of Justice to the National Assembly and the mandate given to the National Assembly in the constitutional function of the appointment of judges. It has been problematic for the same reason as the SDS, which is due to the undignified, degrading attitude shown by the Council of Justice through the letter we received at the invitation of the Council of Justice to supplement with substantive arguments the reference of the candidate. This letter indicated that we want to politicise, that we want to influence, through our political function and some party preferences, who will not be elected judge. This is what we have condemned and for this reason, the attitude of the Council of Justice towards the National Assembly, said that we will vote on our own conscience and that we will make our final decision today, here, now. I regret that there are no voting devices on the Mandate-Electorial Commission in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič, which could show that, with the exception of the Member, which has already been mentioned, the other members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission of the modern voting centre Party abstained and not as you say we voted against [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] So once again, at the point of final decision-making, we certainly trust, and we also have to trust, the expert opinion of the Council of Justice, because it is their function, but we still have a problem, and unfortunately – and this time I agree with my colleague Irgle – on the relationship that we have heard again from the Council of Justice today to the National Assembly. This is a point that we have been pointing out since the beginning of this mandate, and I also very much welcome the fact that we will all finally sit together at the table once and discuss whether this appointment system, as established in 1992, still holds the need to develop democracy in our country, or whether it needs to be reconsidered and set up a different system. Once again, in no way will the Modern Centre Party allow a reference, qualified, expert candidate to decide on the dilemmas that the National Assembly has on its shoulders [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u152	First, I'll respond to the first procedural procedure before you get a second procedural option. In procedural terms, there was a reference to the content, given that this was expressed, in fact, by, say, three quarters of the abuse of the debate, which I think does not require any further intervention on my part. The fact is, on the other hand, that the debate was not primarily about the subject but about the attitude of someone to the subject. It's not exactly the same thing. I also recognize that as such. You've all said what you wanted to say, and I suppose the following will be procedurally directed to the same. Who's got the procedure? Dr. Ange Logar has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much, President. The first procedurally is intended for you, i.e. I ask you to apply the same criteria for all. I used the debate myself, I didn't have the procedure, and in the debate, you can say what you want. I had no explanation for my vote, but I had a debate in which I was registered on time. So in this debate, unless there are new moral and ethical standards now, I can say everything I can say in this Chamber of Democracy as a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party and what I want to report to our voters. Second, it is procedural to inform your leader of the parliamentary group that there is a seat order in the Tomšič Hall and that there is a table where, according to this seating order, there is a visual justification for the order or list of votes. The green light means you're voting for, and where Mr. Zorčič was sitting, there was a green light, a red light means you're voting against it. And the joint result for and against, as the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has said, showed that the Mandate-Election Commission has rejected this proposal. And however you try to reverse this result, you have only reversed your own position. That's all I've said in my debate, and that's all I'm asking you to do is tell your Members not to deceive, or not to use a worse word, not to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u154	And now I'm going to answer yours. There are restrictions in this national council. The first basic limit is the topic we have. The topic is the proposal to appoint a Supreme Court Judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the first basic thing that is. The second thing is clear, so that we can get to the point where we can deal with this, the Mandate-Volution Commission does its job. However, regardless of what the Mandate-Election Commission does, it is always difficult to decide at the National Assembly at the plenary. What you have tried to tell me in your approach is that I should actually inform the leader of my Group of Members, to draw her attention to two matters. You are still – and this is not a lie, but this is recorded and I listened well – insinuated why it happened. This way of why this has occurred, however, is obviously what has led the leader of the Group of Members to request procedurally. You've all said what you wanted so far. I'd like to ask that we stop the procedure now. You have four more debaters, and then the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Marko Novak, will be able to come forward to respond somehow to what is so procedural and obviously substantive today, because we do not know what is possible in this national assembly. Who's got the procedure now? First Dr. Mitja Horvat, then [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Just for the sake of the procedure, I would like to repeat what I was running out of time and what I also apologized for, because I went through the time that I had originally foreseen for the presentation, and because of my repulsion, I spent more time. I mean, to my respectable colleague Logar and everyone else, considering that in his debate, where he can speak, he can tell us what he wants, he said that we [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u156	Please behave with dignity!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u157	adopted the decision unanimously. [[…]] Therefore, for every case and for everyone else, for the purposes of this procedure, let us say that after the debate, the Mandate-Electorial Commission voted on the motion for a decision appointing a Supreme Court Judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the Supreme Court of Slovenia is appointed to the Supreme Court of Justice. Alexander Karakash, and she didn't accept him. And I said: 12 votes, one vote for. On the other hand, what the leader of the Modern Centre Party Group said was that a few members were abstention on the Commission's terms of reference. I have rightly said to the end of the matter, and I apologize once again, that, taking into account the time allowed, the Mandate-Electorial Commission has proposed to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Supreme Court Judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the Supreme Court of Slovenia is hereby appointed to the Supreme Court. Alexander Karakash, and is attached to this report, does not accept. I think I got the right message so it wasn't unanimous. In accordance with the decision taken by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, the Commission decided, and I, as Chairman, duly delivered this report to the Mandate-Electorial Commission. And we have this report ahead of us. However, the decision of the National Assembly, 90 Members, is, of course, a matter of all Members, under Article 82 of the Constitution and other articles, nothing else is written anywhere else. However, in a certain way, I would have liked to have the power to take a decision on the Commission's terms of reference, so that it should be accepted by the entire National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u158	No, no, no. It was not fully procedural, although it was intended to clarify matters. But there are rules for everyone. There are rules for everyone. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, chairman. The procedure always refers to the Chairman, Comrade Logar, by the way. I often abuse procedurally, I admit, I have learned this from older Members, especially from the doctor of procedural procedures, but this has now passed every healthy measure, no. If the SMC, as one coalition member said, had not announced the time for discussion, this would be awkward after almost two-thirds of the term. However, I ask you, President, that this Parliament is finally acting in accordance with the rules of procedure, that it is procedural, and you, after all, as President, have now begun to interpret something quite substantive. You are in charge of this town, Mr President of the National Assembly; you can also abuse that place procedurally, as you did on Tuesday. So please, if this meeting doesn't go any further, like the National Assembly is supposed to do, I'm gonna leave this meeting because I'm not going to put up with this stunt anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u160	I said I'm responding to every procedure, and I have this right as chairman. [[advertising from the hall]] respond to the procedural proposal it has made. Now what I can only answer is that I have noticed both times or in all the procedural proposals so far and also said that it was an abuse. [[advertising from the hall]] No! No! You didn't get a warning for your first abuse. Remember yesterday's debate. I've been waiting a long time for this. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This rules of procedure, which we already have, are very old and only apply to some. Some are caste in this National Assembly and can speak on specific issues such as procedural issues, either in replicas or in explanations of votes on everything. You are most often in charge of these meetings, including today's, and you allow it always when it comes to your political space and your Members. You know, if the leader of the SMC Group doesn't master the rules, and the one sitting on its right or left, because it's either no or they're abusing the rules of the National Assembly and you're explaining it in your own way, that's the problem. In this way, make a new policy, write down the rules for the coalition you prefer, and this is visible everywhere, and what are the rules for the opposition, what it can't, especially for our parliamentary group. That's the part. The second part is that I would like, Mr President, to receive a magnetogram of the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, where we have considered this point. Now we are discussing what someone said, how they said something, how things are basically changing, as far as the largest coalition party is concerned, which is already the custom in this national assembly, but now I would like a magnetogram to read, we have pre-declared discussions, and we will also tell you what has changed at that time. That's what I'm asking. This is your responsibility to enable us at this point in the agenda. If you do not enable us to do so, the conditions for a point are not met in the examination of this staff proposal. The report is too little at this point – from the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I propose that you suspend the session, give us a magnetogram of the Mandate-Volution Commission to look at this, including your Members, not to say anything, and then proceed with the debate at this point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u162	We will vote on your proposal. We therefore vote on the proposal to stop until we have obtained the Magnography of the Mandate-Volution Commission. Yeah. So, the decision is drafted positively, we vote until we get it. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up! I'll explain again. As my colleague Tanka suggested, we should vote on the decision to discontinue the consideration of this point until we obtain the magnetogram to which he referred. Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u163	Dear President, if we agree to such a [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u164	In principle, we should vote first because we put this on the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u165	Okay, well, then we'll have six procedural sessions at each session to keep interrupting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u166	First of all, we put it to the vote, first of all, to stop until we get the magnetogram. We haven't voted yet. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 28 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] So we've rejected this proposal to wait until we get a magnetogram. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Chairman. Although, despite the many apologies of the President of the Electoral Commission, I cannot help but say that he was able to speak strongly for the speaker within five minutes, saying, "because this is an important matter". I can agree with him that this is a very important thing, but I hope that in the future any Member will be able to say that this is an important thing and will take advantage of the additional minutes. Just like that, there won't be double standards in the National Assembly. As regards the opinion or proposal of the Council of Justice and the explanation by Mr Novak. I have to admit, I was surprised because you've been kind of vehemently charged with civil society. Your performance was vehement in that part, it seemed like it was a complete slab of dating, for someone who didn't know anything, but sometimes it's good to look at some composition. The fact is, more than you're doing, what such an initiative writes, you're dealing with why they're being produced in society. They come because something in our justice system is very wrong and one important part is certainly the work of judges. The violation of human rights was too great in Slovenia. Earlier, a colleague, or head of the parliamentary group, Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer, said that "I feel shaking today because we accept constitutional changes". Are you now feeling shaky when you adopt conclusions that give basis to those who violate the Constitution? Read things a little bit more. So I put my hand on my heart, and now I'm seriously starting to worry a little personally about what's going on in this country. We have shaking hands, we change the constitution, we deceive the people, we promise them, but we do not guarantee the basic principles of democracy. One thing is that human rights violations do not take place, and at least in the judiciary. And it is not true that there were none, for the individual decisions of the judge that would come to the top of the judicial system, the regular judicial system, were those that indicated it. That's what they're pointing at. Someone who has such preferences as you have said, so much knowledge that he did not find out in the proceedings, shows only that he acted on purpose. If it were someone who's young, new, first of all, maybe someone could close their eyes and say, look, it's new in the system, there's other things that he's missing. But you say and explain quite a good part about all the references of this judge – then he makes such decisions. That's on purpose. If someone and someone in such a system acts on purpose and comes to the top of this system for a reward, then something is very wrong. President-in-Office of the Council of Justice, which I cannot believe is that, according to your many references, you can still preside over such a Senate or composition. Indeed, I would really like to ask what else has led this country within the judicial branch of power. Is it a fair trial, or a trial based on laws and constitution or political accounting? From his work, the judge, it's clearly the last one; and that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u168	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Novak's proposal, that's what I'll tell you. To this day I was sure, judging from reading your professional articles and everything, and I believed in that right [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u170	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u171	It's one very correct person and I was glad you came to the head of the Council of Justice. [[…]] On the Mandate-Election Commission, I was sure that you had read something that the Council of Justice had adopted, then I understood everything, it couldn't be different, and that your opinion was different. According to your reactions and performances here, especially Mrs Kustec, I am no longer sure of that. Then I won't be convinced of everything you've been writing. Let's move on. We're all getting into SMC now, but what about the ones on the other side. What's going to be there? No one said a word! Are those on the opposite side of the SD, Desus, the United Left – I don't even know whether they have a member in the Mandate- voluntary commission or not – or is there a change of position? [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no, the result of the vote will show whether [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u172	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u173	whether or not there is a change of opinion. [[…]] And on the Commission's terms of reference, Mrs Kustec, I'll tell you this: I don't know how you'll look in the mirror. On the 25th, we'll probably both go to the capital to mass like we did last year. I advise you to go to confession first. Yeah, seriously. For a basic reason, because what you said wasn't true, this wasn't on the Mandate-Election Commission. We saw one light that was green, we know whose light it was, the rest were red. Let's move on. Content. I do not go into the decisions of a particular judge, although I must take into account that the decision of a particular judge in the Kangler case has been totally fragmented by someone who was a constitutional judge. And this is not a constitutional judge of the right political direction, but a constitutional judge of the far left political direction. This is Dr. Fisherman. You can't say that's what one pensioner wrote. You can't say that. This was written by Dr. Fisherman, who was a constitutional judge. Pika. Done. There's nothing here. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members, I am telling you now. Look, the Council of Justice is a constitutional category. The judicial system as such is independent. We're also Members of Parliament. And you said, Mrs. Kustec, you said it was a letter, nothing to tell me that the letter sent by the Council of Justice was humiliating. I agree with you. The world of justice has humiliated us. In fact, he said, it doesn't matter – so don't deal with the judge, that's what we've been dealing with, that's your job, a short-term duty to vote and confirm it. You've all been vehement before, and I don't know what you're excited about changing the constitution. Yes, see, Article 82 of the Constitution is clear: the Member is independent of the vote. With what right does the Council of Justice therefore humiliate us — that is what you said, your expression. And now you will not enforce Article 82 and your will, but the will of Klemenčič and someone [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u174	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u175	Someone who brainwashed you. [[…]] In fact, on the Mandate-Election Commission you had brains, we know which ones, so you voted against the candidate, you spoke against the candidate, too – we move on – and today you support him. This means that from Monday to today, or from the Mandate-Electorial Commission to today, someone has brainwashed you and Article 82 of the Constitution no longer applies. Then change the Constitution and say - there is the second paragraph of Article 82 -: unless someone washes your brain. So the messenger is independent, unless someone washes his brain. At least today someone washed these brains. But how will it be there will show the vote. I'm sorry, I don't mean to judge anyone. I don't know what it's gonna show. In short, I urge you not to let the independent branch of power offend us because we, too, are an independent branch of power. And what you do to let one part of an independent authority offend us in the same situation is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u176	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. The National Assembly has now found itself in a situation that is not honorable, not the National Assembly, but the largest party to this coalition. If anyone recalls the debate held by Jani Möderndorfer, when he almost had a nervous breakdown, when the President of the Council of Justice presented a re-or subsequent opinion of the Council of Justice. He almost had a nervous breakdown. He reacted so arrogantly and beats the table there that no one would ever order him to vote and how he was doing. According to him or perhaps in the meantime, the head of the SMC Group summed up the opinion and said so, even though she did say that they would vote in conscience. But the Mandate-Election Commission has 19 members, 13 members voted. The SDS has only 5 members on the Mandate-Election Commission, but I think that New Slovenia, even if I am not mistaken, was not a member of the Mandate-Volution Commission – for example, it was not from the United Left – so some voices were respected by Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer, who were against, actively against, Karakash's candidacy, your candidacy for the Council of Justice. No doubt! Because all the voices were there — how many? Well, only 13 of them, and most of them were made by coalition parties. You can see another thing here. I told some of my colleagues that this decision could be changed until the plenary meeting. Remember that Mr Miro Cerar was sometimes the President of the Council of Justice. He was President of the Council of Justice before Maslesha, then Maslesha was President of the Council of Justice. All these games, which are going on with regard to justice, are also related to all these functions that some appear to have been used and abused for certain appointments in the judicial system. With regard to the position of the President of the Judicial Council, who has come to present him today, and also what has been said at both meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I must say that he is scandalous. Mr President of the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice think that we are not a branch of power. He's here to order us to decide. Order. The opinion allowed them to write down that the Council of Justice should decide and propose proposals as individual options would like. We do not want the Council of Justice to propose what we want. We just want the Council of Justice to propose candidates who are – not cautious in their work, as you wrote in this opinion, but who are just. It is said that people who perform judicial functions in any instance and want to earn the following rank in their work are just to respect the Constitution and the laws. That's what I said on the Mandate Election Commission. Nothing else, Mr President, we do not expect candidates from the Council of Justice for Progress. However, for the candidate you have proposed, it has been established, both by the current President of the European Court of Human Rights, Mr Mark Bosnjak, who was an advocate of Mr Kangler's case, as well as by one of the Constitutional Judges, Mr Cyril Ribičic, who wrote this in his written legal opinion that fundamental rights, human rights, were not met in this trial before Mr Kangler. Kangler's rights have been violated in court, and such a judge, Mr President of the Council of Justice, does not judge fairly, does not judge by the constitution and not by law. Since this procedure was carried out far enough, Kangler lost the mandate of the State Councillor. Now you're saying you don't have to judge anything in your work, and we're even less, because we're in the National Assembly. All these things that we are talking about have been made public, are publicly known, and if the Council of Justice is unable to respond to public announcements, then there is something very wrong and the duty of us Members, who are the last filter in this process, is to point out this and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u178	The text is given by the proposer, the President of the Council of Justice, Dr. Marko Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u179	All together, of course, if this communication of ours was humiliating, insulting, I apologize, it was by no means intended. Our purpose was – even in this letter to the committee and questions and discussions that took place on the Mandate-Election Commission – for the first time – to feel here also a threat to certain fundamental principles of the Constitution, the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and so on, because to ask judges to make the appropriate decision – to wait, and this is a lesson from the very beginnings of humanity, if I may say so. Of course, if this communication of ours has been a bit humiliating, but here we apologize and perhaps we will later improve it; but of course, here we also have to look at a little of what foreign practices are saying here. Let us compare ourselves with developed Western Europe, not with Poland, as I said, where the President simply does not swear on judges for no reason. Then comes warnings from the European Commission, a mechanism for infringement of the rule of law is introduced. I want to stress something else, and I didn't want to point out that we wouldn't think again how insulting we are and so on. Greece, we all know the Greek institution, the only point of Greece's comments that has not yet been taken into account by Slovenia was the need to correct the procedure for the election of Supreme Judges because there is a risk of politicisation. Read it. We didn't make it up. So I hope that this also was my suggestion that we leave some humiliation now, I don't know what, let's act in an insensitive way, let's act rationally, let's act soberly, because it's our judiciary. After all, and I agree that any measurement of power — if so meant — was not at all, I have also stressed that this does not break on the backs of some capable candidates. [[…]] I think that if we have such an arrangement, we have a constitution, we have a law, there are also opportunities to improve some communication. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u180	First of all, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll read it to the end. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Aleksandra Karakaš to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. And it will be clear how we decide: he will be appointed, if you vote for, he will not be appointed, if you vote against. This must be explained because this is not clearly expressed from the point of view itself. Seriously. That's what I said just in case. Now I'm giving you a procedural one, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We work in the National Assembly in accordance with the rules in force, including the appointment of judges under the rules in force. The appointment of Constitutional Judges shall also take place in accordance with the rules in force and so on. The issue of which system we have and which we do not have is irrelevant, but this parliamentary system is the only one that allows anything within all these mistakes that are taking place in justice to be warned. We don't have another option, and there's no other option. For a transition country such as Slovenia, this model is best if I say this honestly, because it is otherwise regenerated only what is read there and before the Supreme Court when human rights violations are read in judicial proceedings. This is not what we want, and when such things happen, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to warn. This is the second case in this mandate, once the conflict has been raised and, in this case, the infringement, in particular, has been dealt with by one of the citizens before the courts. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman does not respond to such cases at all, which is scandalous. But not to delay, President, I propose a 45-minute recess before making a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u182	Before we go for 45 minutes, which is available to you as the leader of the Group of Members, first an explanation for the vote. What explanation on the part of individual parliamentary groups? On behalf of the parliamentary group first, then individual, because I saw the individual behind. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr President, you need to look a little to the right not to the left. I know, I believe he's taking you to the left, but I'm on the right, you need to see me. Of course, we cannot support the proposal that this gentleman would become a supreme judge. Why? Because we respect what is called the balance between the branches of power. All Members have the right to vote under Article 82 of the Constitution, as we think it is right. And we think it is right not to support this candidate because that is how our current candidate is, so the judge in the European Court of Human Rights said that the candidate violates human rights. Last but not least, said Constitutional Judge Ribičič, who does not belong in this political circle, but in the political circle of the United Left or SD, so on the left. Now the situation is simply that the Council of Justice is in position: you must not think – now I will simplify what you wrote, but in your letter, which is an insult, as Mrs. Kustec Lipicer said, writes: We judge everything, we do the best, your job is to press the button plus without using the 82nd article and your brain. That's what the Council of Justice said. This is the humiliation of all Members. Even if the candidate were far from the best candidate, you can't afford Members, we can't afford to be insulted by anyone. Anyone! At least there's a branch of power that's the same as us. After the stop, they're the same to us! So independent. And by pressure, so by confirming this candidate you will do – what? By allowing these insults and humiliations to continue into the future. However, the humiliation of this national assembly is already so - since we are humiliating ourselves in one way or another, it is as clear as a white day - but it is already in such a stage that, in my opinion, it threatens some stability and balance of power in the country. And we simply, as I said, cannot support the conclusion that this candidate would become a supreme judge. I expect, especially from those opposite me, that they will do the same, but that's your business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u184	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u185	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think our legal framework on this issue is quite clear. We have repeatedly raised the question of the explanation of the proposals for the appointment or election of judges on the Commission's terms of reference, and yet somehow we do not agree with the Council of Justice. But we need to know that the starting point for this cooperation is the law, the rules of procedure and the like and that it is not in any way so clear as to direct the Council of Justice to propose or explain its proposal to us more than it was explained in a particular case. That is why, personally, I have already decided to support this candidate on the Mandate-Election Commission itself, because we do not have any valid reason to hear that he is professional and similar to that we are opposed to him. However, I might point out that, given that our parliamentary group has been marked, including that the Mandate-Electorial Commission is a working body, there is only a certain number of members from each side and there has been a clear statement that we will vote in our conscience, so that there is some kind of redirection of 280 degrees and similarly they are totally unfounded. There's something else I'd like to draw your attention to. In each of these explanations, when opposed to certain judges, it is always heard of certain specific cases, specific cases, not of any gentleman, I don't know, Loizet Novak, or anyone, but of certain well-known politicians who have been in criminal proceedings. I am glad that the one who is not guilty of being forgiven and so on, but that this national assembly has crossed its borders and that it would go to some kind of discrediting of the judges who participated in this proceedings, seems to me to be unintentional and constitutionally contentious. For this reason, I think that the Constitution today — in addition to changing the Constitution due to the right to drinking water — and the question of constitutionality for the second time on the agenda, I propose that, in this 45-minute period, the other parliamentary groups may ask a few questions as to what will be the message if this candidate is not elected or named today. However, as has already been said, we will only support the candidate in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u186	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then in your own name. Please sign up because there are more of you. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. My conviction is slightly different from some others, but it is only right that I also justify why I cannot support such a proposal. I can't because the judge in question – I say again – is coming to the top of the regular justice system, he was involved in violating the individual's fundamental human rights. He also suffered a violation of the rights enshrined in the Constitution. To that end, we were also, in a way, told by a judge who is today a member of the European Court of Human Rights. In short, it's not such a small thing. It doesn't matter to me whether it was a policy or anyone else in the country in this case, but it was a person who was deprived of the possibility, no matter what. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u188	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u189	the performance of the function to which he has been elected. So, this was about consequences that are much wider and larger. It was no longer just an individual but also all those who gave their support to this individual. It is said that the dimension of this problem is much larger and has broader dimensions. Someone who is supposed to have such authority in terms of content and knowledge should not afford such authority. And to put such people at the top of the judicial branch of power, at least as far as the regular system is concerned, something is very wrong with us. I think it's right to hold our heads, because there will certainly be a lot more coming from the European Court of Human Rights that will point to this. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u190	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u191	Your Honor, thank you very much. I will vote in favour of appointing Judge Magi. Alexander Karakash as supreme judge. While we may not agree with the attitude of the Council of Justice in this particular case towards the National Assembly, there is no reason for us to reject the appointment of a particular judge, even a magi judge. Karakasha. Why? Because he judged politics. This would be a direct policy intervention in the judiciary. We can change legislation, we can think about when we decide on the Law on the Council of Justice, how much the Council of Justice is still obliged to explain its decision, but now we have an arrangement as we have it, and the Council of Justice has explained as much as it has explained. But we cannot for political reasons, because an organisation tells us that someone has violated the candidate's rights to say that that's why we're rejecting him. We can't because someone said that the candidate was violating the rights to say that that's why we're rejecting him. Who found out about the breach? The only person responsible for finding this violation is the Council of Justice. Where in which procedure has this breach been established? And even if it were found, it is the Council of Justice who assesses whether this candidate cannot be elected as a judge. Well, I'm voting for this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u192	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u193	Yes, this matter has been pending since the beginning of the term of office, and it is not true what the gentleman said was the first case of the Council's attitude towards the National Assembly. Your predecessor, Mr. Vladi, at the beginning of my term, when I gave a clear message and I said that I was not the English queen who brought something to me, so that I would vote only because they brought it to me; if perhaps the Queen of England was doing it, I did not. This shall apply to all Members referred to in Article 82. However, I am not deciding whether the judge is professionally qualified and entitled to occupy this place. I have never discussed this, but I have only discussed that changes should be considered, that these appointments should be transferred to the presidency of the country, because, last but not least, some constitutional lawyers have recently pointed out this problem, and this is the problem of the National Assembly, which we have now experienced in practice. I am not a schizophrenic person and I know how I voted; I voted against your relationship because I announced at the beginning of my mandate, if you do this again, I will not vote for your candidates again, because I do not believe in you, in your relationship, in honesty; what you should actually do. You know, what you give, that's what you get. Here you must first change with yourself. But it has nothing to do with the candidate, who is now the victim of the whole story; but the victim is because of you, not because of us. Everything else that flies from that side, I don't care. That is why I will not vote against this path. However, I propose that the Minister come as soon as possible with the amendment of the Law on the Council of Justice, and I hope that we will be mature enough to change the Constitution once and for all, and that this decision is not to be passed anywhere else, because it does not belong to this room. This has proved to be true on several occasions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u194	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. Then I'm doing a 45-minute break. We continue the meeting at 7 p.m. and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u195	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. I ask the Head of the SDS Group whether he wishes to present the position of the Group under Article 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. In the parliamentary group, we have examined, examined, and examined all these arguments that have been said. It is clear that the current judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Dr Marko Bosnjak, who defended Mr Kangler in court proceedings, has made it clear to the court that he is violating human rights in Mr Kangler's case, and that he has found in his laboratory the same thing as former Constitutional Judge Dr. Cyril Ribičič. However, when you look at this opinion submitted by the Council of Justice at the time of the nomination, and this is the first opinion that came on 15 September, it says that the candidate proposed by the Council of Justice for election has already been established as a first-degree judge, and in particular as an appellate criminal judge. The very obvious, the main one directed against this candidate of the Council of Justice, is the wrong decision at the appeal stage, which was subsequently annulled by the Supreme Court and dismissed by Mr Kangler. He also says that this candidate can also transfer this theoretical knowledge into practice, participates in educational processes. We are also now asking the representatives of the Council of Justice how it looks for such candidates to participate in educational procedures. The other thing that needs to be pointed out, especially, is that it is more than obvious that in this criminal proceedings against Kangler Kangler, he has lost his job and, as a result, – probably – he has been disabled from his job, and whatever he wants to do, he will have to do through judicial proceedings. As far as the function is concerned, the matter is irreparable. One of those involved in the criminal proceedings, although at the appeal level, the judge is making progress with the positive opinion of the Council of Justice. I ask now what country we live in, I wonder what country we live in. Those who have been injured in the proceedings have no satisfaction, no excuse, and those who have participated in these proceedings as arbitrators, as judges, get a promotion card. I must say that the opinion with which he was accompanied in this selection procedure by the Council of Justice is one of the most beautiful opinions we can read. From this point of view, the parliamentary group will not change its decision and we will vote against the appointment of a candidate as supreme judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u197	I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Aleksandra Karakaš to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and members of the National Election Commission and their deputies. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat, for the additional presentation of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much, President. Messengers and Members! The Law on Elections to the National Assembly in Article 32 provides that the State Election Commission shall be appointed by the National Assembly. It shall be composed of the President and five members and their alternates. The President and his deputy shall be appointed as Judge of the Supreme Court, two members and two alternate members shall be appointed from among the legal experts and three members and alternate members shall be appointed on the proposals of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties. Because the State Election Commission 14. 12. 2016 expires four years, fashion of the National Assembly to appoint new members. In view of the above, the Mandate-Voluntary Commission shall be held at its 24th session. 9. 2016 set out the nomination procedure for the appointment of the President, five members of the State Election Commission and their deputies. In accordance with its powers, having regard to Article 32 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Mandate-Electorial Commission has thus issued a public invitation to apply for the President and Vice-President of the State Election Commission from among the Judges of the Supreme Court. It issued a public call for applications for two members and two members of the National Election Commission from legal experts and invited members of the group to propose candidates for three members and three members of the National Election Commission, taking into account the relative representation of political parties. The deadline for the transmission of applications or the proposal for candidates has expired 17. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the All applications or suggestions were timely and complete. The mandate-holder committee is at the 27th session of the 10th session. 11. On the basis of applications or proposals received, 2016 appointed a candidate for President and Vice-President of the State Election Commission, a candidate for two members and two alternate members from legal experts, and candidates for three members and three alternate members on the proposal of the parliamentary groups. On the basis of Article 32 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, she proposed to the National Assembly – the Mandate-Voluntary Commission – to take a decision on the appointment of the President and members of the State Election Commission and their deputies in the following composition: for the President – Anton Gasper Frantar, for the Vice-President – Peter Golob, for a member of legal experts – Dr. Franz Castle and Mag. Milena Pečovnik, deputy member of legal experts – Mitja Šuligoj and Dr. Saša Zagorc, for members on the proposal of parliamentary groups – mag. Nina Brumen, Ksenija Vencelj and Drago Zadargal, as alternate members on the proposal of the parliamentary groups – Iztok Majhenič, Dr. Janez Pogorelec and Miroslav Pretnar. I hope I've improved. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u199	There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a President and members of the National Election Commission and their deputies. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition, appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternates of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the reasons and responsibility for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 15. 11. 2016 is published on e-club. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožef Horvat's parliamentary question on the responsibility of the Government to establish a legal basis for the successful functioning of law enforcement and prosecution authorities in the search for responsibility for banking crime. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 20 votes and 48 votes. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenke Bratušek in relation to denationalisation procedures. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 10 votes in favour and 62 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Branka Grims in connection with parliamentary oversight of intelligence and security services. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u200	Respectable, the fundamental question of all democratic countries is who controls the supervisors. In this case, we find ourselves in an absurd situation that, as the only parliamentary body exercising control in the public interest, we cannot get one, because it is denied to us by the police, looking at two documents that regulate one part of the legal area that we also control. That's why, of course, our work is disabled there. Even this morning we had a meeting, we didn't come anywhere, the only thing that crystallized everyone's belief that we were meeting, that these acts should be very well reviewed, that they probably contain at least one, which should even be made public, and that this raises a number of questions about the relationship between institutions in this country. Even though there was no voice in the session against it, we met with complete aversion. It has been said that they think it is not our jurisdiction and that we cannot look at it. Despite the fact that they themselves admitted that the Ornik case was not all right, it was obviously a violation of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. They themselves confirmed that the whole matter had become disciplined and that the matter had not been epilogued at all, as it should have been in a normal country. The question raised by one of the members, this is Dr. Duck, is what is hiding and who is hiding here, because the matter is simply no longer rationally explained, why these things do not appear under conditions that naturally regulate classified documents in our country. The consistent respect of those on our committee cannot be the subject of any doubt, for no document at the time that I am leading it has come out in any way to the public. That's what you're saying. This is about something else, but I'm pretty sure it's a big mistake what you're doing. It is a mistake for everyone; for Parliament itself as well as for the police as well as for the Prime Minister of the Government, who read uncritically yesterday what they apparently wrote in the police themselves. The constitutional case law is very strict here, and I firmly believe it is also, because those of us who were present when at least in the wider circle, when the Slovenian Constitution was written, we know that it was written precisely with the aim of never being able to establish a legal order that will systematically lead to a violation, as it is represented by the unauthorised intrusion into several hundred personal accounts on Facebook or e-mail by Mr Ornik. This can't become a system. For this reason, I propose that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u201	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiša, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in relation to the Ecology Environmental Consent Procedure, the company for the collection and processing of secondary raw materials, d.o.o. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my home, Škofja Loki is expanding the hazardous waste treatment plant, which is supposed to come from a large part of Europe. The processing of hazardous waste is in every context, in any case a risky activity. Unforeseeable natural disasters can always occur, there can be an earthquake, which, of course, leads to spillage, environmental poisoning and so on. Even if we consider this part, already this hazardous waste treatment in Škofja Loka is under very suspicious safety standards: from sewerage to physical protection of access to toxic products and so on. This company even worked in the past without proper permission; nothing to me, nothing to you went environmental risk activity without formal blessing. I therefore asked the Minister what the activities of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia were in this case. In fact, in order for the designated company to expand its production, to increase its capacity, it needs additional Arsa licences. The Minister did not respond to me in substance, more or less, in all the authorisation procedures. However, it has highlighted a very interesting starting point, its ideological origin, from which it comes; that we have little to decide whether to protect the environment or whether jobs will be available to us. The Socialists, of course, reject such a position because, in particular, in the 21st century, when there are no more technological excuses, it is necessary to create jobs that will protect the environment, not endanger it. This is some kind of topic that definitely belongs to this National Assembly. After all, we have also discussed and voted today on the Paris Agreement, so that some industrial practices that threaten the environment, which are controversial from more than one point of view and happen to us at home – very specifically in Škofja Loka with this treatment of hazardous waste – also deserve the debate and intervention of the National Assembly as the supreme decision-making body in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u203	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[The vote was 207.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Viceroy Erman to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 50. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irene Majcen to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the draft third development axis. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I asked the Minister of Infrastructure and Space what activities are in the section of the third development axis in the middle part, at the section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac. We know that this section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac was placed in the premises by regulation in 2013 and that environmental consensus was also obtained in June last year. In short, all the conditions are met so that the activities in this project can continue. The Honourable Minister replied that an economic eligibility study was still under way. I would say that when we do not want the project to progress with the dynamics we would like to begin, I would say, to add a variety of studies, because there should already be an active design in this section and there should be an active redemption of land. For after the construction, we know that this whole project, because it is a toll part of the road, is in the management and management of Darsa and after the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje Dars section, so to speak, does not have a single major project prepared when this section of Drazenci-Gruškovje is finished. This is how the project is prepared, the pre-acquisition of a building permit, which we know is not so fast and requires time. In fact, that precious time is lost here because these procedures are not being implemented, and Dars will not have any prepared project in his hands in a good year. This is a problem for the development of transport infrastructure in Slovenia and I propose a public debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u205	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Anton Persak, to Ljudmila Novak's question on the recent visit of the Minister of Culture to Vienna. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 49. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of the rapporteur, Violeta Tomić, concerning the symbols of the collaborators at the crossing of victims from the Barbara trench. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, President. First of all, I want to make it clear that there are no problems in the United Left with a pieteau and a cross-section of the victims, but we have a very big problem when the country's top representatives appear at an event where domestic flags are blowing up, where the crowns are with the inscriptions of the Hero, despite the fact that it is the Social Democrats who have promised the Union of Fighters that they will not change history with this event. The fact that the thinkers are greeted by SDS Member Franz Breznik calls them brothers and takes a picture of a hug with a well-known Ustakian journalist, Bojanac, who loves uniforms with a hooky cross, is one thing, and that the highest representatives of this government appear on such marks is totally unacceptable in my opinion. At least what citizens expect is true descendants of anti-fascists in the heart of Europe, built on anti-fascism and descendants of too many victims of fascism; at least, in terms of piete to all victims, I repeat all the victims, including those who were killed by the Ustrian units and otherquislin armies, who never surrendered until today, and let me remind you that Matjaž's army carried out extrajudicial slaughters in Slovenia by 1950 – all those who managed to survive and war were still killed. In short, at least what we expect is that the highest representatives of the government and the authorities require such marks to be removed before they come to the fifth burial. This is in terms of piette to all victims, for in terms of reconciliation we really must not open the door to fascism. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you once again that evil is never caused by bad people, but by good people who look away from evil. Therefore, on behalf of all the victims of fascism, I ask you, and on behalf of all the dead, to support the debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u207	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. There were 12 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc's Minister of Health on Luke Mesca's question on the issue of the call for and approval of doctor's specialisations. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. As a general discussion, I proposed the issue of specialist doctors in Zasavje or even more precisely at the General Hospital of Trbovlje. The problem there is the following; in the Medical Service Act – Zasavje as a region belongs to the Ljubljana region, which means that there is no autonomy in the dosage of specializations and that is why doctors from Ljubljana travel to Zasavje where there are two problems. The first problem is that those doctors or medical students who are the Zasavčany do not come in and take doctors from other places around Slovenia instead of them, which means that these doctors who come in wait for the end of the specialization, and then, in many cases, move as soon as possible either to Ljubljana or elsewhere, closer to their place of residence. That's how this hospital specializes in doctors, but then it loses its staff. That is why I have called on the Minister of Health to solve this problem, and specifically to ensure that this roofing law is called the Medical Service Act, in Article 18, where these regions, how specialisations should be determined, are amended to allow Zasavje to choose its specialists autonomously so that this will no longer happen. It is said that there will no longer be a need for doctors to specialize, and then they will go elsewhere. In this respect, I ask you to support the general debate because there has been a problem with this for many years and has so far been dealt with at the level of the Ministry, the Medical Chambers and others unsuccessfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u209	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark on the question of Mr Andrej Čuš on cooperation in the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravek's response to Miha Kordiška's question on the deregulation of oil derivatives prices. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The government has decided to increase our prices of petrol, diesel, fuel oil. It will do so, or it has already come this way, to remove the upper limit of the margins for oil traders. We will all pay the bill; consumers will pay it at higher fuel prices, other sectors of the economy will pay it, and, finally, the budget will suffer as a result of the fall in revenue. This measure is totally irrational from practically any social point of view. The only purpose it pursues is to raise the profits of oligopolous oil traders. At the time of his term of office, Mr Restoršek swore to work for the welfare of the people in this country, but with his neoliberal policies he works exclusively for the well-being of oil traders. In the United Left, we think it is totally outrageous that such a policy leads to energy poverty, especially for the most vulnerable groups of our fellow citizens, fellow citizens. To this end, we have asked several questions already sent, we have called two meetings of the Committee on the Economy, we have even addressed a written initiative to the Government, and it was all just a bean against the wall. The arguments, of course, are not here by a government party that advocates deregulation. If you have listened to Mr Restoring's reply to my question, he has operated extensively on free market flossules. He talked about thinking that there would be no price rise, but that he believed that competition would do its job and so on, while the only serious study – a government study, by the way – showed quite the opposite. Deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives means raising profits for oil traders, up to a hundred per cent increase in margins, and in short, it means that a large majority of our fellow citizens, citizens, will draw short, including the state budget, including the other sectors of the economy. Thus, we have not only spoken against this measure in the United Left, even the Chamber of Commerce, the Union of Consumers has said its own, virtually all the deregulations of the oil derivatives are opposed, but Minister Restoration is going through the wall with his head and the bill will be paid by the people in this country. That's why I'd like to discuss it in the National Assembly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u211	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 51. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 51.]] I'm guessing the National Assembly didn't take the decision. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnik, to Violet Tomić's question on the anomaly in the public sector wage system. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić, and Minister of Environment and Space, Irene Majcen, to the question of Mr Mesca's delegation on the options for a third development axis across the Zasavje and Prebold. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, one last time. There was a lot of talk about the northern leg of the third development axis, it is said about what is above the highway between Ljubljana and Maribor, and there was a great debate about whether to go over Braslovče or there over Arjo village, and much less talk about the middle leg of the third development path, which is the one that is under the highway. There are basically three possibilities. One would be that this leg from Celje goes down to Lashka, the other is somewhere near the Wall Bridge, and the other is over Zasavje. In this respect, I asked Minister Peter Gasperšič about the progress of the middle leg. In fact, according to the current choice, this middle arm is expected to transport Zasavje, with the problem that Zasavje, which is already already affected by deindustrialisation, the collapse of mining, the collapse of the thermal power plant and so on, is one of the most endangered regions, both economically and socially, unemployment is over 17% and we would urgently need some incentive for development. If the third development axis will transport Zasavje as planned now, it is said that it will only join the Wall Bridge there, it will mean that Zasavje will not benefit much from this, because no one will drive to Ljubljana through the Wall Bridge because it would make a big traffic, and thus we have a problem that this region can remain somehow blind in the Slovenian transport scheme. Minister Gasperšič replied that the debate on this matter has not yet been concluded, so that the debate on where this arm is to be held is still open, and given that a serious public debate on where this road should be going has not been held, I suggest that we discuss this in the National Assembly. I ask you to support the general debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-17-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u213	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Andrej Čuš's proposal, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, to Mr Andrej Čuš's question on employment and the elimination of poverty. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 50. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
