ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić from 17.30 p.m., Mrs Iva Dimic from 15.30 p.m. to 18.30 p.m., Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 12.-19 p.m., Mr. Bojan Podkrodšek, Luka Mesec from 18.30 p.m. to 20 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček by 6 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Jožef Horvat from 12 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 28. PERFORMANCE OF THE MINISTRY FOR WORK, THE FAMILY, SOCIAL CASES AND THE EQUALITY OF DR. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this item of the agenda of the Member and the Member, given that a specific case of the treatment of two minors is exposed to interpretation, I would point out that in your deliberations you respect so internationally, constitutionally and legally guaranteed privacy rights – Article 35 of the Constitution, Article 16 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights – and Article 38 of the Constitution for the protection of personal data – and in particular Article 56 of the Constitution for the protection of minors. Once again, I ask for special care; not only because of minors but also because the procedures are still open. We are also, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, also liable as a state body for damages which may result from our unlawful conduct – Article 26 of the Constitution. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler Susana Lepi Šimenka for an additional explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished government team, welcome! On 24 October 2016, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we re-interpelled the work and responsibility of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, also for the second time due to numerous irregularities in the case of the removal of Korean boys to old parents. The reasons and arguments that we have already highlighted at the first interpretation in the Slovenian Democratic Party have only been further confirmed in the meantime. On 19 October 2016, a decision of the Supreme Court was publicly published which concluded that the removal of two boys was illegal to the old parents and that the rights of the elderly were violated. It was found and confirmed that Velenje’s Centre for Social Work had taken the child too quickly; it should have waited for the Ministry’s decision to grant parental care. The judiciary has legally and definitively concluded that the removal of the Korean boys has led to a violation of the human rights of the family for reasons that we have been alerting at the time of the first interpretation and have been known to the public all the time. In a normal country, it would be clear what would have followed such a decision by the Supreme Court – the Minister would have resigned herself or would have been called by the President of the Government; not least, before the first interpretation, he himself said that certain aspects of her objective responsibility could be found. In developed democracies, ministers resign because of significantly smaller matters, especially if they are involved and involved in the political appointment of responsible persons to professional posts. But this time, the Prime Minister did not act. A minister who allows violations of constitutionally protected rights is trusted. It is not just what the Minister has done, but what she has left behind and would be obliged to do and what she has advocated as a supporter of the political function. The carelessness and arrogance of both the Ministers of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as the Prime Minister of the Government point to the complete concealment from the elections of the repeatedly expressed and stressed principles of the rule of law and the high moral and ethical standards that Dr. Miro Cerar has so much liked and often exposed. Not even now that we should follow the Supreme Court's judgment, that's not the case. The Supreme Court’s judgment points to the fundamental shortcomings which have been overlooked in the decision-making procedures of the bodies under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour. The relationship between children and their old parents is protected by the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. To talk about the fact that this judgment is the first to speak of the right of old parents to family life, as stated by the Minister in her first reaction to the judgment, suggests ignorance of the matter in her field of work. The longstanding practice of the European Court of Human Rights explains the right of old parents to family life. Ignorance or ignorance of matter and inappropriate selection of staff to the highest authorities in the Ministry is reflected in illegalities, such as the case of the Korean boys. The facts, arguments, findings of the administrative inspection and, last but not least, the Supreme Court's judgment also confirm that in the seizure of two Korean boys, the old parents were involved in illegality under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. On 6 April 2016, the Minister appeared at a press conference with an exposed case of Korean boys. The irregularities found in the procedure itself indicate that at the time she wanted to cover up the irregularities that had occurred politically. With her political authority, she wanted to influence public opinion and convince the general public that everything was in order. As the opposition, we are, of course, obliged to point out the abuse of political functions to cover professional errors. In this case, it is not an abuse of a particular case, but rather an act of responsibility and the use of all possible political means as the Minister of Political Affairs has always advocated the decision of institutions that have violated human rights or have done nothing to remedy human rights violations, even though it could have done so after the supervisory function. We have filed an intervention against the Minister for her responsibilities in disproportionate interference with human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: the protection of children and the family and the creation of the necessary conditions under Article 53(3) of the Constitution, special protection and care for children under Article 56 of the Constitution, the right to the personal dignity of children and their old parents under Article 34 of the Constitution, the right to private life of children and old parents under Article 35 of the Constitution, and the suspension of the obligation to act within the framework of political and official powers, and the provision of these human rights in the illegal abduction of children by the parents of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, and in the violation of the constitutional rights of old parents and grandchildren. Secondly, for reasons of responsibility and abandonment as competent ministers, it is incumbent on the State authorities and public authorities to ensure that in all child-related proceedings the child's benefit and integrity of the family community are taken into account. And thirdly, due to the responsibility and involvement in the politicization of the work of social work centres in the case of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec and the responsibility for the consequences of the cover-up of the mistakes of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which was responsible for deciding on the role of the nursing parents in which the grandson lived. Let's look at the irregularities and responsibility of the minister through the procedures of the illegal seizure of the Korean boys. The response to interpolation does not contain specific answers to individual particulars. In several places, it is even manipulative and willfully silence the essence of the problem. The parents took care of their grandson after their daughter’s partner murdered their daughter, the mother of two children. The children were in their care for three months, until the Velenje Social Work Center took the grandson away and assigned them to the foster care of an unknown family. Kidnapping was extremely inappropriate in the way that children were taken from kindergarten without the knowledge of their parents. Such a way could only be used if the health or life of children were at risk. It was an excessive, disproportionate and illegal intervention in the implementation of the decision of the Velenje Centre for Social Work, which reached out to the family community of old parents and grandchildren, as recognised by Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Although the parents took care of the children for 3 months, the Centre for Social Work of Velenje did not provide them with custody, which is extremely unusual, since article 182 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations provides for the appointment of a guardian to be his relative, if that is not contrary to the interests of the guardian. Since the children were in their three - month - old parents, this certainly was not in conflict with the child’s interests. Grandmother submitted an application to the competent social work centre Slovenj Gradec for the granting of foster care. Since this is an administrative procedure, the Ministry should decide on the application by a decision – either it rejects the application or rejects the application. In a specific case, the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec did not submit an application to the Ministry and the Ministry did not decide on it within a legal period of 60 days. The nursing process for old parents has not yet been legally completed when Velenje’s Social Work Centre has already decided and allocated the child to unknown foster parents, which means that the procedure for the appointment of other foster parents has also been carried out too quickly, voluntarily and illegally, and not considering whether the old mother will be entitled to foster care or not. This was finally confirmed by the Supreme Court. The minister knew about the situation, as she was exposed to the media, and she was particularly warned by her grandmother. Such an irregularity should also be noted by a social inspection which took an exceptional look at the Minister's initiative, but has not found an irregularity. The decision by the Ministry was issued only on 11 April 2016 – beyond the legal deadline and after the children were already in an unknown foster family. Of all the irregularities in the recovery proceedings of the Korean boys, the worst is the one which has now been definitively and legally established by the Supreme Court, which stated that the relationship between children and their old parents is protected by the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Supreme Court has pointed out the need to protect children’s rights to old parents, as well as the right of old parents to children — not only from State intervention, but also through the active conduct and care of state authorities. In doing so, the relationship between parents and their grandchildren may arise and exist without prior legal acts issued by the competent authorities. The position of the Minister, which has been politically defended all the time, stems from the wrong conclusion that he does not recognise the status of the family community as recognised by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The practice of the European Court of Justice and, finally, the decision of the Supreme Court is also based on this: an intervention into the family community by the State could only be carried out due to the threat of children. This condition has not been met in this case, as much as is true of the fact that children have lived with their parents for three months and the broad support of the community in which their parents live. It is entirely manipulative to argue with the Minister that, with such a clear decision and an explanation of the Supreme Court's judgment, the benefit of children must be pursued. Of course, it is necessary to pursue the benefit of children, and no one opposes it. However, who can claim that it is the child’s benefit to break up the family community in which they live, and there are no reasons why they would be at risk? If based on this practice, the social work centres could break up thousands of family communities in Slovenia by their discretion and the Minister would advocate this as professional decisions in which Members and Members as representatives of the people should not be involved. If the defence of the Minister held in this section, then the Supreme Court would not have ruled that in the case of the Korean boys it was an unconstitutional intervention in the family community, since it would have taken into account the interests of the children in principle and taken the view that this intervention was necessary. The fact that the Supreme Court did not rule on the return of boys to old parents does not in any way reduce the burden of interference with the family community. The return could not be decided because these proceedings are pending before other courts and will have no effect on the legally established intervention in the family community. The Minister of Social Inspectorate was most likely required by pressure from the public to oversee the decision of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje. However, the findings of the monitoring were presented at the already mentioned press conference on 6 April. Monitoring found that decisions were legal and that there were no irregularities in the functioning of the Velenje Centre for Social Work. The press conference also cited the reason for the abduction of children to old parents, namely that the elderly parents no longer cooperated with the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, and it was not specifically explained what this non-cooperation would mean. It is more than obvious that older parents did not cooperate with Velenje’s Social Work Centre because they did not agree to the withdrawal of grandchildren. It is frightening that the Ministry is acting on the principle that if you do not agree with it, disagreement can be defined as non-cooperation and therefore the authority forcibly regulates the family relationship and advocates it as an autonomous, professional decision, which, of course, we have to trust citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, since it has been finally spoken by the profession and should not be challenged by this profession. At the press conference on 6 April, the Director of Social Inspection, then Director of the Centre for Social Work Velenje and Professor Dr. Gabi Čačinovic Vogrinčič were present. On 31 August, the Information Officer found that Professor Čačinović Vogrinčič, as an expert external associate, was illegally familiar with personal data, since she did not have the appropriate legal basis for the information, from 4 April to 11 April 2016. The information officer understood the short period of time as a mitigating circumstance, at the same time stating that during this period he had not been familiar with the documentary documentation, but that the data had only been transmitted orally, which could also mean that Professor Gabi Čačinič had taken her expert opinion only on the basis of oral information, which further explains the fact that the press conference on 6 April 2016 was not intended to objectively present the position, but only to cover the decisions of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje and the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. The decision to withdraw grandchildren was, in the opinion of the participants in the press conference, professional and for the greatest benefit of the children. The withdrawal of children should be decided by the profession, which should mean that the professional decision cannot be false or doubtful. Of course, we cannot agree with such an explanation, especially when it turns out that policy is the one that excuses so-called professional decisions and not actual arguments. The Social Inspectorate did not question the old parents to check whether the situation mentioned at Velenje’s Social Work Centre was true, which means that they had not at all identified the actual situation. As a result, neither the expertise and legality of the work of the Centre for Social Work of Velenje could be ascertained as to the reality of the documentation submitted by the Centre. The Minister supported and defended the opinion of the Social Inspectorate. Even though the social inspection did not detect illegality, the minister did not react. Not even according to the Supreme Court judgment, which further confirms the fact that she wanted only to formally cover the unprofessional and illegal work of the Centre for Social Work Velenje and the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. On 8 April, the Ombudsman also presented her findings at the Centre for Social Work in Velenje. Nor did she find any irregularity and this control was carried out solely on the basis of the report of the Velenje Centre for Social Work. There was also no conversation with old parents by the guardian. In late May, the Administrative Court found that the abduction of children was illegal for old parents. The application for foster care was lodged on 13 January by the old mother, the administrative procedure was introduced on 27 January when the application was complete. Since this is an administrative procedure in which the competent decision-making authority of the Ministry is involved, the Centre for Slovenia Gradec should withdraw the role of grandma in the resolution to the Ministry. The application should be decided within 60 days at the latest. The Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec only sent an application to the Ministry on 11 April, probably at the invitation of the Ministry. On the same day, the ministry issued a rejection decision to the grandmother, but it was too late. The deadline for this was 27 March 2016. Illegal decision-making on parental rights is an irregularity that has affected the withdrawal of children from the care of old parents, as the procedure has not been legally completed. The right to foster care is an essential prerequisite for deciding whether or not a grandchild is taken to another foster family and given no parental care. Nor did the social inspection find this, although it was a very obvious violation, and the minister, as it is said, did not react. The Director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, resigned following objective responsibility according to the findings of the administrative inspection. He wants it too late. However, it confirmed that there had been errors that the minister had been defending. However, the Minister did not feel responsible, even though she personally engaged in the appointment of the Director and then the representatives of the Ministry of Social Work in the Council of the Centre for Social Work overturned the opinion of employees who insisted that Jurij Šumečnik did not meet the conditions for a leading social worker because he had no required work experience in the field of social protection. Despite the facts, after the recommitment and with sufficient political majority in the world of the institution, he received support and became director. Of course, it is not negligible that the politically appointed director was a prominent member of the SD. In this case, politics has overtaken the profession and such political decisions have resulted in the unlawful conduct of the Director. That is why the Minister should also be responsible for irregularities at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. The Supreme Court also confirmed irregularities in the process of deciding on the application for foster care on the part of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. Human rights were violated, the procedure was illegal. In July 2016, the Director of the Centre for Social Work Velenje also resigned, according to media statements. Even too late, irreparable damage was done. After the withdrawal of the children from the family community for a long time, they were prevented from contacting their grandchildren with their parents; they were not allowed to contact them until after the decision of the Administrative Court in June 2016. Today, however, older parents are entitled to contact their grandchildren, but only once or twice a month and in the presence of social workers. The public declaration of the Supreme Court judgment of 19 October 2016 definitively confirmed the illegality of the confiscation of grandchildren to old parents and the interference with the constitutional rights of the family community. It is a decision that the Minister has advocated, leaving her supervisory function to prevent and remedy known violations at that time. The argument that the court did not judge the benefit of the children is manipulative; however, the court rejected the application for a provisional order requiring the representative to return the grandchildren to the old parents, but only for the reason that the other court decides on the right of care. The Minister's responsibility is clearly defined in the Law on State Administration and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 114 of the Constitution, each minister shall be responsible for the work of his ministry and, pursuant to Article 16 of the Law on State Administration, the Minister shall lead and represent the Ministry and issue regulations and other acts in accordance with the law and take other decisions under the responsibility of the Ministry. In relation to the bodies of the Ministry, such as the Social Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister shall, under Article 23 of the Law on State Administration, give guidance and instructions and instructions to the authorities to carry out certain measures within the limits of his competence and report thereon. In this regard, the Minister may request reports, data and other documents relating to the work of the body in the composition. There have been many irregularities in the seizure of grandchildren. The way to take children away from their parents was controversial, since the life or health of their children was not threatened. The murderer of the mother of children, their father was not deprived of parental rights, instead even cooperated as a party to the proceedings. The Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, unlawfully considered the application for the care of old parents because it did not give up the decision to the competent ministry; this prevented the procedure for the appointment of old parents to foster care since their role was not legally decided. Velenje’s Centre for Social Work did not have valid reasons for not assigning a child to old parents in foster care; not cooperating with old parents could not be a valid reason; only the child’s benefit should be decisive. The child has not been given a guardian who should normally be a relative of the child, unless this would be contrary to the interests of the child. Social inspection was carried out only on the basis of the report of Velenje’s Social Work Centre, without talking to the other side, in this case with the old parents. And, most obviously, the human right to the family life of old parents and grandchildren has been encroached on. In accordance with Article 53 of the Constitution, the State must, in all its actions, ensure that it protects the family and children and provides the necessary conditions for such protection. In accordance with Article 8 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, a wider family is also protected as a family, especially in the case of established family relations between children and other relatives. In this reply to the interpolation, as in the first and during the entire debate, the Minister avoided explaining why she had allowed her conduct to maintain the state of unconstitutional breakdown of the family community, although she had clear formal levers available under the Law on State Administration and under the Law on Administrative Procedure. Minister Anja Kopač Mrak in relation to these irregularities and human rights interventions is not only objective but also subjectively responsible. The social inspection shall be a body in the composition of the Ministry, which is independent in its work, but shall, in accordance with the Law on State Administration, take into account the instructions of the Minister, who shall also have the right to have an eye on the full documentation of the inspection. The results of the controls, which were not found to be irregular, supported it, although it was clear from the outset that the social inspection did not establish the actual situation, since it did not hear from the old parents. She was informed of irregularities both by her grandmother and by her lawyer before the April 6th press conference. Instead of requiring a further examination of the case under Article 23 of the Law on State Administration, it has not yet been identified on these irregularities from the social inspection. In accordance with Article 274 of the Administrative Procedure Act, the Minister, as an appellant, has the right to abolish or repeal decisions under supervisory law if the decision has clearly violated the substantive provision, as it did in a specific case where the decision of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec has not yet been decided in accordance with the law. Instead of examining the possibilities it has under supervisory law, the Minister followed the findings of the social inspection uncritically and took the view that there was no irregularity. The Minister actively participated in the placement of political staff in the leadership function and, despite many warnings, neglected her profession. Such a decision resulted in the illegal conduct of the Centre for Social Work, which was determined by an administrative inspection. The Minister should thus be responsible for the politicisation of work at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec and for the mistakes that have occurred due to political and non-professional recruitment. The President of the Government stated before considering the first interpretation that due to irregularities in the procedure certain aspects of its objective responsibility could be found, since the Minister is responsible for the legitimate and effective functioning of the department. The decision of the Administrative Court was followed, which was also confirmed by the Supreme Court, but the President of the Government did nothing. If the political powers of the Minister are to be used to cover up or maintain certain irregularities in human rights, interpretation as a political means should be used to determine responsibility. And we did that, too, in this case in changed circumstances for the second time. Interpellations were not made solely because we would like to discuss and persuade you, valued colleagues from the coalition and also part of the opposition, that in the case of two boys, there was illegal, immoral, unethical conduct. That's what we were talking about. Remember the vote of the first interpolation. 43 Members were interpolated and 38 against. This has often been addressed to the professional public, as has the Administrative and Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have warned of a number of irregularities that have occurred through the exposed case from the beginning. The Supreme Court’s judgment gave rise to new circumstances. Given that the Minister is not sufficiently self-critical of the judicial irregularities and that the President of the Government does not act even after the Supreme Court has decided, the only possibility is to reiterate her responsibility here in the National Assembly. I believe that under the changed circumstances and additional arguments you will think very carefully about how you will vote at the end. This is how we propose to the National Assembly that, after the debate, Mrak, Dr. Anjo Kopač, from the place of Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	You have received the reply of Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anya Kopač Dark to interpretation 23. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I give the floor to Minister Anji Kopač Mrak to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Much of what we have and will hear today has already been heard six months ago — the same proponents with the same or very similar evidence of the same particular case. My answers will be similar. As at that time, I also estimate today that the interpretation tabled according to its contents constitutes an abuse of the interpolation institute. The signatories to the interpolation shall use content that should not at all be the subject of interpretation as the institution for the determination of the responsibility of the minister, namely the conduct of the institutions of the social state and the relevant administrative or judicial proceedings. You have confused the tasks and competences of the individual authorities with the purpose of my personal discreditation, either because of misunderstandings or because of the lack of understanding. The content of the interpolation is based on a specific case of the treatment of two minors where the procedures are not yet completed. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the judicial protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and organisations is ensured against decisions and actions of administrative authorities and public function holders. And even in this particular case, which you are already referring to in another interpretation against me, it is so – legal protection is provided and proceedings before the competent courts are ongoing. Today’s interpolation is therefore still primarily an abuse of a particular case; the abuse of family tragedy, the abuse of minors, the abuse of old parents for narrow political purposes. This is a typical example of political manipulation of applicants who, in a particular case, do not question the interests of two poor children, but try to gain political points. I repeat: the case for which I am being intertwined in the rule of law is the matter of the competent institutions and the judicial proceedings and the latter are not yet concluded. The lawyer of old parents had a number of public appearances — some also controversial from the point of view of protecting personal data — and at least one of them said in mid-October that he had filed 26 complaints and 45 legal remedies as a result of the case. It is not only an attorney of old parents, but also the signatories of the interpretation, both in this interpretation and in public appearances, that you make public statements all the time, and that you define the specific procedures in which two minors are involved. I repeat, we are talking about a specific case, we are talking about the benefits of children and the protection of privacy. This should be respected by all, including politics and the media. For the benefit of children, at least I hope, in our country we will not judge by the example of American TV series. May I remind you that, at the beginning of October, when the 21st annual report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities and on equal opportunities, the parliamentary group of signatories to the interpretation also tabled a proposal recommending, inter alia, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommend to the State authorities, in particular the Ministry, that they refrain from making public statements or defining the procedures in which children are involved until the final decision is taken before these national authorities. At this point, I wonder why the Signatories of Interpellation now feel that this recommendation does not apply to them, as they themselves express and define in the interpretation and public performances the specific procedures in which two minors are involved. In doing so, I must point out that the right to privacy, which is all the more important and clearly defined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the case of minors, must be dealt with in the first place. Interpellation is also an attempt to influence interpolation signatories in the course and content of a particular procedure, which is unacceptable in terms of the division of power. Given the content of the explanation, it is also obvious that the purpose of the interpretation is to undermine the confidence of citizens and citizens in the institutions of the social state and to discredit me as ministers. Respectable motions for interpretation! You seem to want my head at all costs. At all costs, you want to make public the story of this family, and you are not prepared to take into account and hear some fundamental facts. The procedure for the placement of children in a foster family led by the competent centre for social work was completed before I myself learned about the case. I also immediately and in good time fulfilled my supervisory role and the role of reporting to the public given me by the rules by means of the Social Inspection and the press conference. I have always followed my conscience and in accordance with the oath I made at the time of the appointment of the Minister before this high assembly. So I acted and acted in accordance with my responsibilities. Any minister or minister outside the explicit competences may not interfere with the work of the authorities of the State administration or bodies with public authority in the management and decision-making of specific administrative procedures, to which the procedure relating to interpretation is without doubt. In the case of autonomy in the management and decision-making of administrative procedures at social work centres as a minister, not only do I not have the opportunity to do so, but I must also not have it, as this is not legally permissible, but it is not appropriate and permissible for the applicants to invite me to interfere with the procedure beyond the powers given me by laws and other legal acts. It seems that you would like to live in a country where the Minister decides who will be deprived of the child, who will be entrusted with the education and care of the competent institutions. On the other hand, it is quite unusual that the interpretation of this particular case for which the lawyer of old parents demanded my dismissal from all official procedures. In order to remove any doubts about impartiality, I have already proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in spring to exclude me from all proceedings. That's what the government did. This means that I am not and must not be aware of the content of the matter and that, in accordance with my powers of authority, I cannot and must not decide on it. Unfortunately, politics, the media and the streets also refer to the case in addition to the social and legal profession. Unfortunately, the family in the media is more divulged than it should be and unfortunately only hears the demands and rights of old parents, which of course they have, so that they will not be misunderstood, but the proponent, the lawyer of old parents, sometimes even the street forgets the benefits of children who are in the interest of old parents. The Supreme Court’s judgment, which according to the parties to the second interpretation, clearly distinguishes the benefits of children and grandmothers. And if you've read it, then you know that this is not a judgment on the benefit of children, but on the rights of grandmothers. The Supreme Court has ruled that the removal of grandchildren has encroached on Grandma’s constitutional right to family life. I respect the Supreme Court's decision, but the Supreme Court also points out in its judgment that in deciding on minors in the first place their benefit is protected by the Constitution and international treaties, as well as by other laws and regulations in force in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in relation to the protection of children in the first place of their duties, adults have their own entitlements, among other things, written down in the judgment. This must apply to the full functioning of public authorities, public service providers, as well as holders of political functions and the media. In this case, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled on the constitutional and conventional rights of old parents to respect the right to family life. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia states that the old mother was violated by her constitutional right, but did not find any violation of children's rights or their benefits. This is not the manipulation you are reading, but it is a fact which is repeatedly highlighted in the decision, namely that decision-making for the benefit of children has not been the subject of this dispute. And you know very well, but yet you continue to despise my work, our work, and the profanation of my name. The competence of a specific decision to intervene in the right to family life is a constitutional value which cannot be absolute when, in the light of the circumstances of an individual case, it is necessary to give priority to the principle of the greatest benefit of the child in respect of his or her personal dignity and other human rights, as has already been decided by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The judgment may also be that the Supreme Court, in its decision to order the children to return to their midwife's home by the end of the proceedings, decided to reject such a proposal. In explaining this decision, it stated that the relationship between children and their old parents is important from a range of different aspects of child's stay and development and that due to this, it enjoys adequate legal protection in certain parts of the world, which is primarily aimed at protecting the rights and benefits of children. In this decision too, the Supreme Court has put the interests of children first, which I will always take. The family community of old parents is protected, but it is not over the interests of children and the interests of children have not yet been decided by the court. You also point to the removal or failure of your father’s parental rights as evident in the interpretation. The law provides that the parent’s right to abuse a parent’s right to leave the child or to act clearly shows that he will not care for the child or otherwise seriously neglect his or her duties. As Minister, I have no jurisdiction over the deprivation of parental rights. I can't propose that and I can't decide that. The removal of parental rights is within the jurisdiction of the court and the centre for social work is one of the possible candidates, which, according to the explained role of social work centres in this opinion, is independent. If you think I can instruct the centre to take away and propose to the court the removal of parental rights, we live in different countries. In a specific case, I learned about the seizure or non-refoulement from the media. Even the evidence that the well - being of children in a foster family has not been proved is misleading. The situation and mood of children are checked by the staff of the competent centre for social work and other institutions, as well as by the doctor and psychologist at the health centre. It is a fundamental trust in the work of the institutions and in the functioning of the country in which we live, a country in which one and the same constantly sees conspiracies going beyond the border of good taste. It is also unrealistic to claim that old parents were denied contact. According to information on the case published in various media, Velenje’s Centre for Social Work tried to agree on the extent and manner of contact between children both before and after placing children in the foster family. The proposed volume of contacts, which was greater than the current volume of contacts established by the court, was rejected by the parents or their lawyers at all times. Through lawyers, the old parents also proposed the transfer of local competences to arrange contacts to another social work centre. The Ministry has immediately accepted this proposal, which is within our competence. The current scope of contacts, which is smaller than the proposal made by the Centre for Social Work, has therefore been determined by the Court, as I have already mentioned, after reviewing and examining the documentation and on the basis of orders where the old parents have been able to comment. The Ministry does not participate in this proceedings before a court, nor do I have any influence on the work and decisions of the court as a minister. Therefore, it is not clear what you are reading to me in this respect. Regrettably, despite the confidentiality of the proceedings concerning the conduct of contact with the child, they were exposed to public exposure as a matter of urgency. With regard to the statement concerning the change in the surname of the children, I wish to clarify that, with the facts concerning the indications that in a particular case, the surname of the children has been changed to another last name, I have not been aware of it and have not affected it. The Act on Personal Name in Article 20 only provides that a change in the personal name of a minor may also be required by the guardian of the child, and that the competent social work centre, which must take account of the child’s greatest benefit, must agree with that. So much for the specific case that I'm standing here for; the obvious for actions that I'm not responsible for. However, I am responsible for the system, and I am pleased that you do not question the Ministry in interpreting this time compared to the first interpolation. I will be happy to describe what we have done in this area of family and children's rights in recent months. Members and Members of this National Assembly, two months ago without a vote, adopted a new Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which builds on the experience of practice on measures and procedures to further protect victims of violence. It also introduces a clear position that corporal punishment of children is not permitted. All of this means the realization of the commitment to zero tolerance to violence in society. Perhaps in this place and when we are talking about a particular case, it would not be necessary to repeat that, in order to further protect children from exposure to the public, a restriction has been added that any exposure is permissible only if this does not expose children or their personal data. I am aware that no system is perfect and that is why the reorganisation of social work centres is ongoing. The purpose of the reorganisation is to put the profession of social work back where it should always be – on the ground to people where there are real problems that need to be solved. The plan therefore includes the regional integration of the existing 62 social work centres into fifteen social work centres, where more knowledge, people will be concentrated and better organisation of work will be ensured. Let me stress that the remaining exposures of the centres will remain and that there will be no change in accessibility for people, but I believe that services will improve. Such a reorganisation will provide people with better quality services and allow employees more field work. Among other things, mobile units will be introduced. At the same time, with the reorganisation of social work centres, we are preparing a new social rights decision-making system; we want to introduce an information decision on annual rights, which will make it significantly easier for both people and workers in social work centres. Today, the government will also consider a new, modern family code. The law is based on the text of the Family Code, which was rejected at the referendum in 2012 with the assistance of the proposaler of today's interpretation. If that hadn't happened, we probably wouldn't even be discussing this case today. In the family code, the definition of a family is new, the understanding of the family is wider – the family is a living community of a child with either one or both parents or with another adult, if it cares for the child and has responsibilities and rights for the child. So it is not necessary for a family to have a child with both parents. One parent or caregiver is sufficient, and it is the one who makes the family. Now we will no longer talk about parental rights, but about parental care, which in addition to rights also includes duties and in particular the responsibility of parents for the harmonious development of the child. The family code also brings an important novelty: the possibility of implementing parental care also for old parents and other relatives when the child is no longer a living parent and follows the many comments made during the public debate. One of the biggest changes in the family code is the transfer of decision-making from the social work centres to the district courts, which would have been now and in this case if we had not had a referendum four years ago. Social work centres will, of course, maintain their advisory role and help families and pass the decision on to the judiciary. Or more about when the government will adopt the family code. Your Honor! Interpellation is based on content that should not be subject to it, but is a matter of administrative and judicial proceedings. Interpellation is based on a specific case. Most of the events related to the case took place before the Ministry received any information on the case. In a particular case, I could not, nor could I give any guidance to the Centre for Social Work, as this clearly stems from the role of powers and tasks of individual bodies. Interpellation shall attempt to affect the flow and content of a particular procedure which is not completed before the competent authorities. The protection of the rights of an individual against decisions and acts of administrative authorities and holders of public powers shall be guaranteed in judicial proceedings in accordance with the Constitution. The Minister shall be without prejudice to their work on the management and decision-making of specific procedures, which is undoubtedly the procedure to which the interpolation relates. Today's interpretation is an abuse of the institute, which is a means to enforce the minister's political responsibility, which is responsible for the ministry's policy and its implementation. It is the political control of the National Assembly over the work of the Ministry, but it is not the supervision of the work of the administration, which is the interpretation. This undermines the fundamental principle of the division of power, since Article 120 of the Constitution guarantees the independence and independence of administration in the performance of its functions in relation to other branches of government. The responsibility of the Minister or Minister for the Ministry's work must be understood within the framework of the law, i.e. the act of political direction, the supervision of work, the issuance of regulations and other acts within the competence of the Ministry and other tasks laid down by the rules. The interpolation institute is therefore politically responsible for the work of a minister or minister, his or her source or his or her subordinates, who are affected, but not in the sense of commanding a specific service, measure or decision. I repeat, the treatment and determination of specific decisions in relation to the case in question is totally unacceptable, as there are still more proceedings in court in the case. The Court will decide on the child's benefit and, unfortunately, I hope that no Member, Members, the media, the street or anyone else. Therefore, the political treatment of specific matters of an individual procedure and the requirement to have an impact on the authorities and persons empowered to decide is inadmissible and illegal. The Constitution protects the right to privacy, which also includes the obligation to protect and treat personal data and their collection and management only if the law so provides. In particular, the right to privacy of children must be protected. The constitutional right to privacy of children also includes the protection of children from exposure to the media and the prohibition of the abuse of individual cases relating to child protection for some other purpose. The prohibition on the exposure of children to the public is also laid down in Article 9 of the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family, which stipulates that parents or children's caregivers, foster parents, adoptive parents are obliged to protect them from exposure to the public. That we will not have, or probably already have, a story similar to that of a Cora girl in the past. And most importantly, interpellation, which does not follow the fundamental principles of protecting the benefit of children, is the abuse of political and media space. Respectable, Your Honor. I fully reject the allegations mentioned in the interpretation and propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposed decision on my dismissal be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before continuing with the views of the members of the groups, I propose that you explain to the Slovenian public whether this item of the agenda is included in a meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with Article 118 of the Constitution, in accordance with Articles 250 to 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 19(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to avoid any further discussion as to whether or not this is an abuse or any other matter in relation to the consideration of this item of the agenda. In fact, in her reply to the interpolation in the introductory sentence, the minister said it was an abuse. And I am asking you to answer whether the constitutional and business conditions for dealing with this item are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	This point would not be on the agenda if not all the conditions were met. The content you are actually trying to refer to is a matter of political assessment. What this means and what it does not mean and also an act of defense is a matter of policy and not of anything else. I know this from my own experience when it was proven that things were not constitutionally consistent and still required a resolution. Since I know this from my own experience, I insist that all the conditions are met. But in all cases, it's both the setting up of interpolation and the answer to its political act and about it, the content of it, I'm not going to go into it. But it is as always that I end – this has now become a tradition – and also misused procedurally, in order to draw attention to each interpretation at the beginning. Usually, at least the presentation of all views is heard, then the proposer gets another option; there is no need to try procedurally to influence and discuss such or otherwise. Now, of course, I'm going to get another procedural one, because I said something back, because we're just going to spend a little more time. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, if we understand this explanation as you have said it, then all constitutional reasons and all business reasons are fulfilled to deal with this item on the agenda. And I think that in the event that anyone in this National Assembly declares that this is an abuse of the Interpellation Institute, we should react, even if it is a minister who is being intertwined. In this way, the treatment of interpolation cannot and must not be initiated. Contentual answers should be given during interpolation, not hints and slanders. I think that, Mr President, you, when the Minister has completed the presentation of her defence, should point out that the act has been tabled in accordance with the Constitution and with all the business provisions and stands substantively, because there was no requirement for any correction, and it also stands for business, legally. Your job is to warn the Minister and anyone of such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	This point would not have been the case if there were not all procedural conditions for this, so it is legally appropriate. What I'm going to say again is what I said before: Interpellation, which is a political act, is allowed to respond politically. And the policy also contains values. He has the right to them, both the Minister and those who have put in the interpolation, that is why he is never, and I will never warn. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	Your Honor! First of all, first of all, I'd like to say one single sentence, which I think is very important. If anyone is deceiving the Slovenian public, it is you, Madam Minister. In her address on behalf of the proposer, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko made very clear the arguments why we have tabled an intervention against the Minister. But both the Minister and the Government of Mir Cerar have not heard the key arguments from the first interpellation to this day, why the Ministry actually acted contrary to the legislation and everything that has been said today. Obviously, we will need the proponents to reiterate these arguments even if it takes ten times for the Minister and Government of Mir Cerar to hear the right arguments why we have put the interpellation in. Now we are going to the position of the Group of Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will undoubtedly support the intervention we have put against the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Andrejo Kopač Mrak, because in this reply, too, we have not been able to respond in concrete and convincing terms, to clarify some of the key findings regarding the apparent human rights violations in the case of the Koroška boy. Even more. It still insists that, from the point of view of the Ministry, everything was legal and nothing could or could still be done to at least eliminate the harmful consequences of legally established unconstitutional interference with the family community of old parents and grandchildren. It is simply not possible to understand that it does not appear to the Minister that the moment has come when it is necessary to say bob beans and take the least objective responsibility for the state of the ministry that runs it. That's practically the third time I've had an intervention against the Minister of Labour. The first in June, then the interpretation against the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, also belongs to the Ministry of Labour, the family and, of course, now again, since the final judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of the Koroška boy was adopted at that time. The Supreme Court ruled by law that the removal of grandchildren was an infringement of the constitutional protection of the right of old parents to family life. In this administrative dispute, the Supreme Court could not decide on an action application for juvenile children to be placed in foster care at the home of the complainant or of the old parents, as this is established in other proceedings, but the decision nevertheless constitutes, for reasons of substance, an appropriate basis for regulating future relations between the defendant and the grandson. The Supreme Court could not decide whether to reintroduce minors to the home of the defendant, since the application for content exceeds the possibility of remedying the consequences of an infringement of the defendant's constitutional right. However, it has certainly found that the abduction of grandchildren was an unconstitutional act in the family relationship, which it would not have determined if the benefit of the child in this case were such that the family community with the old parents did not break up. As stated in the explanation of the reasons for the judgment, the relationship between children and their old parents is protected by the Constitution and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The right of children to old parents, as well as the right of old parents to children, must be protected not only from State intervention but also through the active conduct and care of state authorities. The relationship between parents and their grandchildren or young children and their relatives may arise and exist without prior recognition by the competent authorities of the existence of such a relationship. Although the relationship between parents and children is different and enjoys a lower level of legal protection, there may be a special expression in the event that minors are left without the care of their parents, which has been given precisely in a specific case. So it is more than obvious that the Minister of Labour is subjective or at least objectively responsible in accordance with Article 114 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia – each minister is responsible for the work of his own ministry. However, the Minister has not only always advocated such an intervention in the family community from the position of political office, but has also left the supervisory function under the current legislation in order to remedy such violations of human rights. The subjective responsibility relates to the powers and tasks performed by the Minister, depending on her specific decision to do something or to waive her duty. The Minister shall, on the basis of Article 16 of the Law on State Administration, represent the Ministry and implement the regulations and other acts in accordance with the law and amend other decisions within the competence of the Ministry. In relation to the authorities in the composition of the Ministry, such as the Social Inspectorate, the Minister may give, on the basis of Articles 23 and 24 of the Law on State Administration guidance for work and mandatory instructions and tasks to carry out and report on certain measures within the limits of her competence. In this regard, the Minister may request reports, data and other documents relating to the work of the body in the composition. In this part, the Minister left the duty to require further definitions from the social inspectorate concerning violations of human rights and other illegalities in proceedings which have been known to the public for a long time and which have also been confirmed by the Supreme Court and the Administrative Inspectorate. The Minister also left the supervisory function of the decisions of the social work centres involved, since, under supervisory law, she could abolish all the unconstitutional and illegal decisions of the competent social work centres, as explained in the interpretation, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Article 53 of the Constitution stipulates that the State must take care in all its actions to protect the family and children and to ensure the necessary conditions for such protection. This also applies to all the conduct and abandonment of Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. Instead, we now have a situation where the most serious violations of human rights in family law are legally established. This is a break-up of the family community, and the minister does nothing about it. The Minister stated earlier about her responsibility that she “does not want to live in a country where the Minister would raise his phone and order social work centres to act”. In this regard, we can only add that no one in Slovenia wants to live in a country where the Supreme Court finds human rights violations by social work centres and the competent minister does nothing to remedy the consequences of such violations. In addition to subjective responsibility, the Minister in the Slovenian constitutional system is also responsible objectively, as stated by the President of the Government of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, when he was not yet President of the Government: "It is undeniable that objective responsibility in the political sphere is indeed indispensable, because in the complex organisational framework of political institutions and in the context of the great political dynamics of modern society, it is often impossible to sufficiently identify all causal links and levels of possible criminal behaviour of various entities within the framework of state bodies and to impose political responsibility in a differentiated manner." Now we can also see that the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, is saying something and he is doing something else, because otherwise he would have helped himself, so he proposed the discharge of Minister Anja Kopač Mrak. Now, once again, a few concrete arguments why we tabled the interpolation. At least the following irregularities have occurred in the withdrawal of grandchildren from the care of their parents and in the event of a development in connection with this, and it is only right that this should be repeated if five times in the National Assembly is necessary for the Minister to understand what this is all about. First time. The grandson was taken away suddenly and in secret, without the knowledge of the old parents, of whom they could not even say good-bye. Any action must follow the principle of proportionality in relation to the benefit of children, which would in the present case mean that this could only be done if the life or health of children were at risk. Actually, it was a kidnapping. Another time. The murderer of the mother of children, their father was not deprived of parental rights nor was the procedure initiated by the Velenje Social Work Centre. Instead, the father participated as a party to the procedure and is, unlike the old parents, the only one who can complain about the placement of the children in the breeding process. It is also now only the father who gives consent to adopt children because his parental rights have not been revoked. Third time. The Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec unlawfully dealt with the role for the care of old parents because it did not send it to the competent ministry. Instead, he gave an unreasonable opinion as to why older parents are not the most suitable. This made the process of assigning grandchildren to their parents into foster care impossible, since their right to care has not yet been legally decided. Fourth time. The Centre for Social Work of Velenje did not have valid reasons for not assigning a child to an old parent. Instead, he chose another foster family and even needed the consent of the parents in whom the children lived — that is, the old parents — under the 158th Article of the Marriage and Family Relations Act. The child has not been given a guardian who should normally be a relative of the child, unless this would be contrary to the benefit of both children, which was not the case in question. The Centre for Social Work of Velenje led the process voluntarily and forced the old parents to make a decision and did not inform them of the legal consequences of decisions and statements. And for the seventh time, most importantly, there was an unconstitutional interference with the family community in the process of taking the grandchildren away from their parents. Neither the social work centres nor the Minister, and to this day the living communities of old parents and grandchildren do recognize the status of the family community, although this is already the established standard under the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. At the time of her appointment, the Minister swore to respect the constitutional order, to follow her conscience and to work with all her power for the welfare of Slovenia. Interpellation as a political means is more than justifiable, as the Minister, in the framework of a political function, initially advocated an unconstitutional intervention into the family community and has not done anything to address the consequences of such violations of human rights until now. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of interpolation in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Anja Kopač Dark, distinguished ministerial assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you! A new meeting of the National Assembly and a new but also old interpretation against the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. It seems to me that we are repeating ourselves, but once again I must say that this serial investment in interpretation is not just unproductive and pathetic, in fact it is a little funny. We will lose 11 hours again, which the competent ministers could also devote to something else. Perhaps to prepare a health reform, a long-term care law, Minister Koprivnikar could negotiate with the unions and so on. And I am, of course, somewhat critical of this government as well as of this coalition. There has already been a lot of speculation as to how DeSUS will vote today, given that we did not support the Minister for the first time, but let me start by saying that this time we will not support the intervention against Dr Anjo Kopač Dark. Not because the Minister for 360 degrees would change her job and her policies, but because we cannot allow the candidates to pick political points on the tragedy of a family in Koroška. The topic of today's interpolation is not worth commenting on; this story should be dealt with by the competent institutions, not by politics. The fact that we are discussing these two unfortunate boys again in this house today seems to me to be unacceptable and totally unacceptable, and we do not want to be involved in this story, so we will not be discussing it. However, we may be discussing other social issues, such as: why we have not yet seen the draft law on long-term care, how we will deal with demographic trends, how we will ensure that our people no longer live in lack of how we will protect the pensioners and enable them to grow up decent and active, how we will integrate young people into the labour market, how we will reorganise the labour market, so that they will still be friendly enough, while the country will still remain competitive. We could also ask ourselves why in the Personal Assistance Act we are being rushed to the right, what is going on with the reorganisation of social work centres, when we will adopt the family code and so on and so forth. As has already been said, in preparing the interpolation, we gave up our support to the minister for a completely different story. At that time, it was our dissatisfaction with certain social policies led by the Minister. It wasn't a Korean boy, which we said very clearly and loudly. Of course, with the work of the Minister, we are not entirely satisfied, but the situation is improving. We have established a dialogue and this is most important. There are still many common challenges ahead. The trends are positive, and therefore the Minister's departure would not benefit anyone. True, the sad fates of the boys have in some ways been accompanied by certain decisions, but this will have to be judged by the Minister herself. According to the Supreme Court’s judgment, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark will have to assess her responsibility for the great boys, but here it is important to point out that the above-mentioned judgment concerns the rights of old parents and not the rights of children. She says the boys have been taken away in a very inappropriate way, but this is not the direct fault of the minister you have on the grill today. It is also significant that children are still in the foster family to hear that they are doing well. Therefore, we wonder who we are to question the judgment of social, educational and other professional services. As has already been said, we did not agree with the Minister's specific social policies in June. Above all, we have talked about policies in the field of public institutions and social work centres. Errors have occurred, but they are now being phased out. Dr. Anja Kopač Dark promised us this time that she would take note of the comments and we are currently assessing that she has taken great account of our demands and criticisms, but we are not yet entirely satisfied. The work of the Minister will certainly be monitored closely below. Since we have no greater reason not to believe that the Minister will continue to work and because Dr Anja Kopač Dark is certainly not the weakest member of this government, we will not support today's interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we're going to chew again on the already chewed-up topic. We will do this despite the fact that from April, when you submitted the first, almost completely identical interpolation to today, there are no new facts that would lead to different decisions. As we are still convinced that Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we have never been intimidated by the Social Democrats. It grieves us only that instead of seeking solutions and acting for the benefit of citizens and communities, we have to keep coming back and throwing in place and dealing with things from which no one gains anything. There is a repeat of the parliamentary show on the programme today. But it's not just another series of conflicts between the opposition and the coalition. No, we are once again witnessing the lowest abuse of two children, whose cruel fate the biggest opposition party has repeatedly and repeatedly used as a tool to deal with the coalition. If we thought that we were already at the lowest point and that we could not fall even lower, of course we were wrong. For interpeel promoters, it is obvious that family is not such a sacred cell of society. Why, though, would the hardship of family and children constantly return to the stage under the spotlight and put it before the public to judge? Today, therefore, it is not a matter of concern for the individual’s fate. Today is about abuse again. Today, we resupply political salt on open wounds. Interpellation, however, is a legitimate tool of the opposition, which unfortunately in this case has proved to be a normal political exploitation of severe family tragedy and serious abuse and interference in the privacy of minors. Like the first one, this interpolation shouldn't be. It shouldn't be if we can get through at least a little empathy for the kids. The specific case is still not complete. Relativizing content that is essential to children does not help these same children, but does irreparable harm to them. It is no longer just one of the contributions to the degradation of moral-ethical standards that some of us have achieved morally. Like we said before, let's say it again. The curiosity of the case raises the question why the specific Centre for Social Work has concluded that after losing a child for its development, they need more than old parents, who have been caring for them for some time. We don't know the answer. And since it's about protecting the child's benefits, so is it. Members are also not entitled to know or request the answer to this question. The fact remains that no institution in the country has yet found that, in a particular case, the social work centre has not followed the benefit of children who are still something that we must all put first. Whether the wishes and entitlements of the adults involved have been sufficiently taken into account is a completely different matter. However, by no means should the benefit of children and the benefit of the adults involved be equalized. Adults can protect their own benefits and rights, and the rights and benefits of children must be protected by the State. Of course, it is important for anyone who considers that the institutions of the State have misjudged and acted wrongly to provide legal protection in judicial and administrative proceedings. All of this has to do with this case, so this is where we end up. Let the competent institutions, the courts be the last to say; we Members cannot and must not do so. Respected and respected! In view of the fact that in a tragic case the competent institutions are judging, which is by no means the National Assembly, whether the Minister enjoys our support, we will decide on the basis of the results of the work. And there were plenty of these. They have been publicly presented several times and there will be some opportunities today. Its policy is good and still follows social democratic values: solidarity, equality, justice, partnership, tolerance and security. Of course, we will not support the social democrats of interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm going to start with an anecdotes, which is real and is connected to Minister Anja Kopač Dark. Her client colleague, Borut Pahor, has repeatedly stated that his government's biggest mistake was to underestimate the scope of the banking crisis. Now I will not go into whether this was really just a mistake or how many other harmful measures the Pahor government has taken. It's something else. If a politician makes such a serious mistake, his political career should end immediately. But Pahor’s political career did not end immediately, in fact he even advanced to the position of president of the Republic, where he continued to make mistakes. Why I point out this is because exactly this is the similarity between the President of the State and the Minister of Labour. As long as she was a secretary in the Pahor government, she made the biggest mistake of her career. A move that deprived 50,000 of our population for every form of social assistance. Nevertheless, her political career did not end. More than that, like Pahor, Anja Kopač Dark progressed on the political scale. The Ministry continues to make mistakes, which, of course, are paid by others, in particular by the most socially vulnerable people of Slovenia. Even when pressured by the public to correct some of their mistakes, it does not eliminate them to the end. Before I make the characterization of these mistakes, let me just say that it wasn't really a mistake. It was a deliberate anti-social policy. Anja Kopač Dark and her comrades return our social policy to the 19th century. Censuses are not used as an indicator of who needs help, but as a means of rejecting as many applicants as possible. However, those who receive help must renounce fundamental rights, such as the right to transfer their property to their offspring. In short, while the idea of basic income spreads around the world, the Anje Copač Dark team narrows the social state to a bare physical minimum. If you ask us if such a person is suitable for a minister, our answer is quite clear – no. Advocate for repressive social policy must not be Minister for Social Affairs. A politician who doesn't want to make up for the mistakes he himself admits shouldn't even be a minister. The list of antisocial measures is long and the mode of operation is simple. Her client's prestige and her ministerial chair take precedence over people's needs. I'll only point out the most obvious cases. Anja Kopač Mrak is co-author of the amended legislation on social benefits, on the basis of which the people of de juura were deprived of a state pension and, in fact, a security allowance. As Minister in the governments of Alenka Bratušek and Mira Cerar, she has twice proposed inappropriate corrections, which have indeed improved her rating, but have not solved the problem as promised. The opposition parties – left, right, or irrelevant – we have proposed at least three appropriate solutions, but instead of the Government joining the legislative process, the coalition has overtaken these proposals. Last month, six years after the adoption of Svetlik's law, Anja Kopač Dark's team made a new half-track proposal. Pear of one person and one party regained priority over the needs of socially disadvantaged people. Come in. In 2014, the Anja Kopač Dark team proposed a new Labour Inspection Act, which placed the holiday workers in a worse position than they had under the old legislation. When we proposed a correction in the United Left in March, its ministry did not want to be involved in the legislative process. Six months later, she drafted her own law, leaving behind the most critical group of workers; these are those workers who are employed in illegal labour agencies. Come in. The discharge of debts to socially disadvantaged persons, proposed and operationally carried out by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, was even unsuccessful under government criteria – of course, by deducting the pir terms that the Ministry wanted to take into account. Of the 290 000 poor people in Slovenia, less than 4 000 people were eventually credited with debt. The Minister's modus operandi was again exactly the same as with the return of social assistance and as with the amendment of the Labour Inspection Act. The coalition rejects the proposal of the United Left, which has been much more favourable for socially disadvantaged persons, then in the second step, the Ministry prepares its proposal, which is extremely restrictive. Of course, the government and the coalition are responsible for this, let us be honest, but only the minister is responsible for the poor performance. So, in all these cases that I have listed, the ambitions of one person, the career ambitions of Anje Kopač Dark and one party, the Social Democrats have the advantage over the needs of the people of this country, and those of the most vulnerable, the poorest, the most exposed. Before I explain these cases, I must also point out the problem of combating poverty. We recently celebrated Cerara's second anniversary. The government then went to the draft propaganda brochure with the title, and I will quote it: “Key positive developments on the second anniversary of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar«. Not once does the word poverty appear in this brochure. And that, of course, is correct. Despite the third consecutive year of economic growth, the government of Mir Cerar has done nothing to eradicate poverty. Yes, existing legislation has been implemented, that's true. However, no step has been taken to eliminate absolute poverty in Slovenia and actually help those living in situations of relative poverty. On the contrary, most of the intervention measures that have been taken, look at the fraction already taken by the Government of Pahor, continue to be in force. The Coalition has just adopted the Budget Implementation Act and has thus frozen the coordination of social benefits by increasing the minimum costs for two years. Parental allowance, child allowance, disability allowance, unemployment allowance, all of this remains frozen. In short, while the government has already cut the income twice by 10% of the best paid, while the salaries of politicians have also increased by more than 5%, the savings for the socially disadvantaged continue. Do you ever wonder how it is that Germany, which had only 5% of unemployment in 2014, has spent 1.8% of its GDP on the unemployed? Slovenia, however, had only 0.8%, although we had almost twice as much unemployment as 9.7%. Of course, it's clear if we look at unemployment benefits. The minimum remuneration is €350 gross, which translates into €270 net, amounts to even €22 less than social aid, all of which is a third below the poverty risk threshold. Now there will be an answer that it is not only the minister's fault, but the whole government and the coalition and this objection will endure. But did the minister call a press conference with such dismal social numbers? Did she protest? Has she ever heard from her? No, it's not, of course not. Has she threatened to resign if the law is passed? Again, the answer is negative. If she did, of course, someone else could take her word for it. And it is clear that such actions to save poverty in Slovenia have not been taken because obviously its ministerial position means everything to it, and the content of its department is struggling little. I can give you another example or two more cases right away. Cerar's government abolished the subsidy for socially disadvantaged people forced to rent an apartment on the market with the municipality of Zujf. Attention, the coalition has broken the Constitution to attack those poor people who, unlike 87% of our fellow citizens, do not have their own apartment. She's targeting people who don't even get a non-profit apartment because of catastrophic housing policy. And how did the Minister for Social Affairs react? Did she offer to resign? Did she step out of her party that backed the law? No, she didn't do anything. It's just been a year since the embarrassing referendum on equalizing the rights of same-sex couples. There are several reasons why the law of the United Left fell at the referendum. One of the most important reasons is that the Roman Catholic Church has practically unlimited resources for its homophobic propaganda, but the reasons are not exhausted here. The government and Anja Kopač Dark are also responsible for the defeat. The government has decided not to participate in this campaign. And how did the Minister for Equal Opportunities react again? She didn't do anything. Before I fully explain those cases in which the Minister has not only tolerated unacceptable decisions by the Government and the coalition, but has carried them out here alone, let me draw attention to the essential problem of her social policy – these are too low social benefits. In 2009, the Ministry of Labour prepared a calculation that showed that social assistance must be at least EUR 385 as a bare physical minimum in that country. Since the minimum wage at the time was €460 net, this amount was then rounded to €308 and finally landed on €288. But even this figure was not realized because the then Pahor's coalition passed an intervention law and reduced the minimum income to €260. Since then, the minimum wage has increased by a good 100 euros due to the pressures of the union, and workers in the minority workers have finally been entitled to allowances last year. For the last time, Secretary of State of Pogačar boasted that the number of workers on the floor had dropped from 40,000 to 20,000. However, social assistance is still only €292 today. The budget adopted by the coalition provides that 60,000 people will live on incomes that are twice below the poverty risk threshold. And before I hear again that this is the reality that there is no money in this country, let me say that it would take €385 to raise the minimum income in order to take between €60 million and €90 million to raise it. Now, point out, the coalition, with two changes in the income scale, reduced its revenues by €80 million to 10% of the most privileged people in Slovenia in 2017. Otherwise, it is really cosmetic to correct corporate income tax, but if you do just what the Social Democrats promised in their programme, you should get more than 90 million euros out of this tax. And according to the Minister's assurances, a new calculation of the minimum costs would finally be carried out this year after 7 years in response to my question at the June meeting. I don't know if they're actually going to do this, but I know it doesn't mean anything in itself. In 2009, the same calculation showed EUR 385 for temporary social assistance, but we are today, 7 years later still almost EUR 100 below that amount. Once again, the coalition has adopted a budget that assumes that social transfers will freeze and I strongly doubt that this coalition will propose a rebalancing due to socially disadvantaged people. So now I return to the problems in the introduction, which clearly show the modus operandi of Minister Anja Kopač Dark. The Pahor's Coalition has therefore adopted a new Law on Social Benefits, which, according to the Government's findings, makes the number of benefits, I will quote the term “receivers radically reduced”. To illustrate, in 2011, we had an average of 47,000 recipients of the protective allowance and 14 thousand 600 recipients of farm pensions. In particular, these women, who were from such poor farms that they could not afford farm insurance, were the ones most affected by such arrangements. As the number of recipients of the protective allowance, which replaced both old benefits, decreased to only 13,000 in 2012. Right now, there's only 11,000 left. So in this process, 50,000 people were affected. And if I quote the Government here again, "this trend is not related to smaller needs, but to individual decisions". What the Government claims here is that the decline in this number is due to the introduction of returnability. As it is said, the Dark One team proposed a reform of the law in 2013, but this correction was cosmetic. There's been a frightening effect of sealing on real estate. And again, I quote the Government, "as in absolute terms and in relative terms, it reduces the number and proportion of older recipients". So those to whom the protective supplement is intended primarily. Honest politicians would probably propose a final regulation at the beginning of the new mandate, but not Anja Kopač Dark. The SDS has twice proposed the elimination of the refundability of the protective supplement, the United Left has proposed a complete elimination of the refundability for social services as well, and the Government and the Minister have blocked all of this. But look at him, this November this year the same character appeared as a great savior who will correct her own mistake. But, as I have already stated in other cases, she has once again brought to the table a half-solution that is even less favourable for a number of socially disadvantaged people than the current regime. And what will the coalition accomplish? Approximately as much as it would have achieved through the non-constitutional termination of the rent subsidy. Look, the expenditure for the thousands of new recipients of the protection allowance for the whole year is €1.8 million. This government will spend € 4.6 million per year on NATO operations in Latvia alone. The savings effect is therefore negligible, the funds are, for example, spent on NATO's piarian escapades in Latvia. So why is the minister still insisting on fillings, and why does he literally have socially disadvantaged people at his peak? The following is a work inspection. This may seem like a technical problem to some, but it's really a long way from that. Our workers are getting more and more edgy, and if someone who still has a regular job thinks that this problem is none of his business, it's a fucking mistake. We have a whole industry where the luxury of the norm is, and normal employment is becoming exceptional. And capitalists are consciously violating the law because they know that nothing can happen to them. In such a situation, the team Anje Kopač Dark proposed a new Labour Inspection Act in 2014. But instead of increasing the powers of the labour inspectorate, it actually reduced them, and placed the nicknames in a worse position than workers employed in the black. In fact, according to the old Labour Inspection Act, the employer in whom the worker worked in black had to hand over the contract of employment to the worker within three days. The same authority is exercised by Inspector Furs under the Law on the Prevention of Work in Black, which was adopted in the same year. Well, however, Anja Kopač Dark's team managed to propose a law that makes it impossible for a self-employed person to have that right. In 2015 she was reminded of this by the Labour Inspectorate, and in the United Left we tabled a bill. The government – that is, the Ministry of Labour on its behalf – refused to participate again in the legislative process and submitted its proposal for the United Left 8 months later, which was once again flawed. The law protects the forced self-employed, not protects the workers of illegal agencies. The Ministry has submitted such a law, although the media informs us of a new case every week when a company hires workers from a company that does not meet the conditions for intervention. Capital holders do this on purpose, but if they get an inspection of their work, they pay a minimum penalty in the current circumstances. The worker remains left to a criminal who hopes to call himself an entrepreneur or an employer who sits at the head of an illegal agency. Perhaps the Minister will use Pahor's excuse, but see if, after he has been warned, he consciously proposes a harmful proposal, then there is no more talk of a mistake; it is a deliberate cause of harm. It doesn’t even make sense to lose words excessively because the story is very similar again — the government didn’t join the legislative process when we introduced the law in the United Left. When she proposed her law for a long time, the ministry was warned that the definition of beneficiaries was too narrow and that she was missing most of the relevant claims. Our amendments were rejected without arguments, and in the end only 3 000 914 beneficiaries were written off. In short, the whole project ended up as one big debacle. Given the fact that we had 290,000 statistically poor people at that time, that we had 170,000 recipients of different types of social benefits, this effect of the measure was indeed very, very negligible. And, as I mentioned earlier, the only recovery of this measure was the pianist, propaganda, self-promotional terms of the Minister. Minister Anja Kopač Dark swore two years ago to work for the well-being of Slovenia. Nevertheless, as a member of the Government, she has calmly supported all the measures by which this government is poorer than any other country. Among these measures, I have to put particular emphasis on the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, the reduction of taxes on privileged groups and so on. On the other hand, it has not even proposed that it implements the necessary measures for the decent survival of our citizens. And these are the real reasons why Anya the Dark Dipper should be flying, and that's a long time ago. Unfortunately, today's interpellations advocates prefer to deal with child abuse for their own political prestige, so I will not even lose words about it. Maybe I'll stay just long enough to tell you that for that very reason, we're not going to support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Six months ago, Christian Democrats in their position to address the interpretation assessed that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities was not doing well, that the interpretation was justified and that the Minister should even step down. Christian Democrats are constantly reminding us of the wrong policy of the Minister, which has been guided since she was Secretary of State to the then Minister Svetlik. The interviewers, however, based only on a specific topic that we all know from the media — the Korean boys — which may not be the happiest. On the basis of the information available to the public, however, we can reasonably assume that major irregularities and illegality have been committed in the proceedings, which is unacceptable. The Minister is personally responsible for the failure of the procedures and interventions in the family, where the child’s benefits are at risk, to be fully regulated and properly regulated. If we are more precise, these procedures are not carried out with the necessary sensitivity expected in the event of serious family interventions. It is, for example, about the taking of the child or his lodging at the institution. Where the child’s benefits are at risk, the State is justified and liable to encroach on the rights of parents, but only for predetermined reasons and according to a predetermined procedure. These procedures should not be disorderly and leave to social workers to decide, as they are also in distress because they do not have systemic solutions available. Therefore, the removal of children in a particular case was seen as a specialty action, without agreement and information to the affected. Such a way cannot be in any way for the benefit of children. Let us also stop at the third point of the interpretation, which shows the Minister's responsibility and involvement in the politicisation of social work centres, for example CSD Slovenj Gradec. The media reported extensively on the long process of appointing CSD Director Slovenj Gradec at the beginning of 2014. While rejecting the apparent politicisation of social work centres, the Minister claims that the procedure for appointing Yuri Šumečnik, her client colleague, has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Institutions and the Law on Social Protection. He states that Mr Šumečnik was elected Director of the Institute on 23 June 2014. On 12 August 2014, a positive opinion was issued on his appointment from the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec. The Minister's consent to the appointment was issued on 23 September 2014 and appointed by the Council of the Institute as Director on 1 October 2014. However, the Minister is likely to silence for a reason all developments surrounding the appointment procedure of Mr Šumečnik since January 2014, when the call was repeated – also because of the lack of clarity and whether the latter fulfils all the conditions. Christian Democrats support the discharge of Minister Anja Kopač Dark because of the many wrong policies and projects for which she is directly and indirectly responsible as Minister. Here we also have in mind projects and changes that have not been made, and we should urgently have them at the legislative level, such as: the Ministry has not yet drawn up a law on long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance. While we hope that this process will be accelerated after the introduction of the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act last week submitted by Members of New Slovenia, it is of paramount importance that this area be fully regulated. At organisational level, the reorganisation of social work centres, which has been announced since the beginning of the mandate, has not yet been carried out. In this regard, Christian Democrats would like to see project documentation, proposals for concrete solutions and legal basis for them. In this regard, the Minister and the President of the Government stated six months ago that everything was ready in this regard. The rules that have been prepared and adopted are weak and ineffective. For example, the Debt Liabilities Act, which has experienced a devastatingly poor response from stakeholders. Another such legislative breakdown is the Law on the Prevention of Undeclared Work, with established values. More costs than benefits. We need to mention the latest novel ZPIZ-2, which has literally forced many independent entrepreneurs to stop their activities. This ministry does not encourage those who want to work, and this is incomprehensible and unacceptable. The Ministry is late in the preparation of a number of regulations under the 2016 normative work programme. The Minister shall be objectively responsible for unacceptable backlogs in the resolution of complaints at the second stage concerning the exercise of rights under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Although the public has repeatedly stressed how many people are in the process of eliminating employees' arrears and how the number of unresolved complaints is rapidly falling, we are still facing a number of citizens who are in great distress because of the unreasonable wait for a just decision by the Ministry. We would like to know, Madam Secretary, how long do you think a citizen, a family in distress at the decision of your officials, can wait? Many already publicly point to the poor staffing structure of employees at the Directorate for Social Affairs and other political staff at the Ministry. From this we conclude that, nicely put, the strange and harmful measures of social work centres throughout Slovenia are also due to reckless and political recruitment at the Ministry. In fact, in recent years, the minister who was supposed to protect the family was actually the most harmful to the family. Christian Democrats ask where is the resolution on family policy? We could count and count. Youth employment projects – there are no special results; there are increasing numbers of 30-year-olds without regular employment, without families and living at home. Non-response to public criticism of the elderly, which has also been misled and encouraged by the professional staff of the Employment Service, who have been misled and encouraged to pay voluntary contributions to pension and disability insurance, and now are not included in the pension period. The Ministry does nothing to support families living below the poverty line. The ministry has virtually not begun to draw funds from European funds yet, and we are in the midst of a financial perspective. Dear Minister! When will calls for these funds finally be published? Christian Democrats still believe it is time for the Minister to withdraw. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for the discharge of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Klanjsek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'd like to say hello first! Today, we will discuss again another interpolation, which – as some of the last ones – has been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. And this time we will also decide on the work and responsibility of the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Today, the minister will for the second time – and if we consider the interpretation of the whole government, for the third time – advocate the very same matter. Of course, we can all ask ourselves together about the purpose of such a work, because, obviously, one and one seventeen interpretations have already survived, and it appears that today too. However, today's interpolation differs from what we discussed in June this year at the 20th regular meeting. Today's interpolation concerns only and only the specific case of two children and their old parents, as well as 11 questions sent by the Minister in recent months. I've been thinking a lot about what I should say about this. I wonder whether the position of the Group of Members is, in such a case, relevant and necessary. And that's because we're going to be able to talk about the tragedy of two young children again 11 hours in a reckless manner. In fact, when we speak with such ease in public about the case of two boys, who were already marked by their lives in their early years, we must be aware that we are also marked by such public debates. For example, does anyone remember today the case of the headmaster of a school in Maribor who committed suicide because of high media publicity? Or is there anyone else today who remembers the case of the Coroner girl? Even then, the public demanded their tax, and this tax, respected, is certainly not negligible. Every time we discuss the lives of these two boys for a long and wide time, they relive their experience. Do we forget that both children attend kindergarten and spend time with friends and acquaintances in the environment where they live? At the same time, the whole of Slovenia is monitoring and wondering how the story of the Korean boys will end, and in Parliament we are also spiced by the question of whether the Minister will be Minister tomorrow. In manner: the objective justifies the means. Sadly, in this case, two children are innocent and traumatized without our help. The new situation that led the applicants to react by reinterpreting is therefore the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which in October 2016 ruled that the procedure for the abduction of children was a violation of the right to family life by the Constitution of old parents or midwife. Let us recall that the Centre for Social Work of Velenje carried out the abduction of children on a rapid basis, without waiting for the decision of the Ministry of Labour to issue an appropriate permit for the care of old parents. Here in particular, I would like to point out that, in the Group of Members and also in the Alliance, we strongly oppose such arbitrary behaviour by the State authorities — especially when children are involved in the process. However, it must be said, however, that the Supreme Court has not assessed a specific case on the substantive side, and therefore we must leave the best interests of the children to the specialised state authorities, who must carry out their work with all due care and responsibility. Some procedures are also pending or are not yet completed before the competent authorities and it is therefore unacceptable for the public to engage in the privacy of both minors from this point of view. It is right to warn about irregularities, but none of us have any insight into the course and contents of concrete procedures, let alone into the lives of children or in the lives of their grandparents, so we have no right to judge. On this occasion, let me touch on some of the current challenges which I hope are addressed as a matter of priority at the Ministry of Labour, which I have pointed out both at the first interview of the Minister and several times at the Labour Committee. I'll put the family code first. A comprehensive redefinition of the area of family law is essential, especially in order to reduce in future cases such as this one before us. The Minister of Labour has already presented the proposal of the so-called Family Code in May, which we welcome in the Parliamentary Group and the Alliance, but we believe it is high time that the Code, which will better regulate family relations, is put into the procedure of the National Assembly as soon as possible. We are also looking forward to the 2016 and 2017 announced measures of reorganisation of social work centres in the parliamentary group, which would help to improve the efficiency of employees and, as a result, to more user-friendly services. In the light of economic growth and the improvement of the situation, which the coalition has often pointed out, I cannot, once again, over the fact that you have supported the government's proposal to extend the provisions of the Public Finances Act, which regulates social policy. Is economic growth, therefore, only highlighted by the proposals of laws that bring additional political points – one such case we dealt with yesterday at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly – and where the removal of harsh measures would bring at least a small relief to the citizens, and when we come across a coalition, we run into a deaf ear? In spite of what we have said, we are both Members of the Alliance who believe that Minister Anja Kopač Dark is doing well within her abilities and powers. We are convinced that in its daily work, the Minister is aware of the values that are key to effective action for the country of one of the most important ministries, namely socialism, solidarity and equality. In spite of all that has been said, opinions have been shared in the Group of Non-Aligned Members on the proposed interpretation against Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak, and we will therefore vote in our conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Dr. Jasna Murgel will rule out the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	Dear Presidents, Dear Fellows and Fellows, Dear Citizens! Yes, today we all note that today we are discussing again the work and responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Mrak. Let us just explain to the citizens: if the interpretation is made, we have no choice but to discuss it. We may not want to discuss this, but when interpellation is introduced, of course we need to discuss it. We need to discuss interpolation and it is largely the same – we have also said, many of us, that it is the same – one that has already been invested in June this year and again puts young children and their family tragedy at the forefront of their dignity and the right to privacy. And even though the Ombudsman has asked us here in Parliament, in fact she has already asked us not to address this issue, this particular case here again and again, in order to actually ensure that the interests of these children are protected. Interpellation is an institute with which the National Assembly exercises control over the functioning of the individual Ministry and Government. It is therefore right to use it whenever there are reasonable reasons to show that the work of certain ministers no longer complies with the values and principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, on behalf of the interpolation that we are considering today, we cannot attach ourselves to this. The use of interpretation to undermine confidence in the work of state institutions by exploiting the plight of two minors is, in our view, inappropriate and unfounded. Interpellators report to the Minister a number of things: responsibility for alleged disproportionate interference in human rights, suspension of duty, responsibility and involvement in the politicisation of the work of social work centres and so on. As in June this year, we reiterate that in interpolation these findings indicate a misunderstanding of the tasks and competences of individual bodies – social work centres, social inspections and competent ministries, and not least of all courts. It is a matter of independent state bodies and not of bodies in the composition directly subordinated to ministers. The minister’s powers – yes, the social inspection, you say, was subordinate in certain cases to the minister – could also be used and carried out in a particular case. In our view, the cases that are taking place in public cannot be a reason for an attempt to exert pressure on independent authorities operating within an individual branch of government and in accordance with laws and other regulations to make decisions that must be respected. It is a deliberate undermining of confidence in the work of state institutions and the creation of an erroneous belief that the most vulnerable are not protected in our legal order. Let us again recall that Slovenia has ratified the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child and the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. Special protection is enjoyed by children both in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which we have just amended this year with the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which will also soon be replaced by the Family Code. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is largely headed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities. However, the policies and actions of the Ministry directly touch the most vulnerable groups in our society. The new Law on Social Security Benefits, which proposes the removal of the Institute of the Labelling of the Prohibition of the Derogation and Loading of Real Estate, owned by the recipients of the cash assistance and the security allowance, will be adopted at the December meeting of the National Assembly. We will also adopt the long-awaited family code soon, because it is likely that today it will also be adopted at the government's meeting, so that the process will finally run with regard to the adoption of this important, very important act, which has a very important impact on family relations in our country and which we have waited for so much, not only on the fault of the ministry. The fact is that the ministry run by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak is still working hard to fulfil the commitments he has. We know that everything is not ideal and the remaining commitments under the coalition agreement will have to be fulfilled. In this respect, the Ministry's activities to regulate those aspects of labour law, which have proved to be flawed, enable infringements of workers' rights and limit flexibility in the labour market, are important. Just days ago, a public debate was concluded on three important laws in this area, namely the Labour Relations Act, the Labour Inspection Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act. We expect the Minister to submit a package of these three laws in the first months of the following year on the parliamentary bench. We also discussed the law on cross-border service delivery, which is also before Parliament's submission. The legal arrangements for personal assistance are, in our opinion, very important. We will have the opportunity to discuss this law on the basis of a law also tabled by the NSI Group. We'd like it to be handled as best we can. Also important is the area of long-term care in which we still have to work, together with the Ministry of Health; it is a very complex area that we have been trying to regulate for at least 10 years and we have not yet succeeded. We believe that this is an important priority of this country and that this area needs to be fully regulated. Let us not forget that Minister Anja Kopač Dark has also committed herself to the implementation of legal changes for the reorganisation of social work centres. This also calls for amendments to legislation and changes to this legislation are being prepared. This is one of the key changes in the ministry's field of action. And this is what the ministry can actually organise and can have a significant impact on the content and effectiveness of the work of social work centres, which will make it essential to make the work of these centres effective so that they can actually help citizens better for the purposes for which these centres are set up and needed. And finally let me add this; it was mentioned here what is normal and what is not normal. We believe that it is not normal for us to talk here in the National Assembly so many times about a specific case that is still being decided before the competent authorities. In a normal country — I think if we talk like this — we think that should not be the case. Let us let the authorities that are competent – in particular the court now – decide on a specific case. For the court is competent and competent in this matter for its decision. I know, maybe the proponents would look at the case law of the Administrative and Supreme Court and maybe discuss any other case before these courts. Will any case that seems to us to be the subject of debate here in Parliament now be considered here? Therefore, we believe that the answer to this question, which is merely rhetorical, “no, the National Assembly for Specific Cases is not competent”. Not for such sensitive cases where children’s benefits are addressed. And in this case, the court will decide, decide, proceed, let it decide, and let us no longer scrutinize the child's benefits, where at least two human destinys are dealt with and dealt with by the competent authorities. In view of the fact that the basis of the interpretation is therefore this particular case and for all the other reasons that we have stated, we will vote against the interpretation of the modern Centre's Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The representative of the proposer, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you so much for the word. I must say that after listening to all the positions presented, in some way — even in view of the statements we witnessed to them this morning and yesterday by the media — I expected such presentations. Of course, I'm disappointed in them. I still believe – we have almost 9 hours of debate ahead of us, where we will be able to face the actual arguments and the reasons why this interpolation has occurred – that when you vote, you will really ask yourself which key you will press. Since, after all, things are here, I think it's pretty clear. I'll go in line on what we heard here today. First of all, the Minister’s reply or introduction. It has been obvious to us that we are using a concrete case to gain political points, not to talk about the benefit of the child, to overthrow the institution of the social state and so on. Dear Minister, this interpolation would not have occurred if there had not been an irregularity in the proceedings. In procedures for bodies belonging to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We are not talking here today about the case, we are not talking about the content of the case, we are talking about the irregularities that have taken place within the Ministry or on the bodies belonging to the Ministry. And that's the problem. If these irregularities had not occurred, these cases probably would not have been in the courts, as there would be no need to do so. And really, let's focus on the content of the interpolation; then I'll take it back a little bit later. The minister said we were demolishing the Social State Institute. It is precisely because of such irregularities that the institution of the social state is collapsing and that is why citizens of the Republic of Slovenia no longer trust in the social state! We do not break it with this; the problem is that irregularities have been proven, illegality has been committed and should not occur. And what are the procedures, after all, at social work centres, and you, Madam Minister, are responsible for how things must be done. You're giving them instructions on how to act. You're the one making the legislation. As for the statement that the procedure was closed before you found out about this case. When considering the previous interpolation, you yourself said that you had been briefed by your grandmother on the case on March 25th. This was before the children were taken away from their parents, but the procedure of course was already under way. But it was still within a period that could, if you knew that things were not going legally because, after all, there was probably a legal basis for the fact that, in the case of an application for foster care, on the one hand, you had a 60-day marriage period to respect and, on the other hand, the Ministry had to decide. [[…]] Dear Minister, has it been a constant practice that only the Centre for Social Work has given an opinion? Was it not a constant practice that in such cases the Ministry must decide whether to favour or reject the application, but must decide on the Ministry? In this case, the director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, did not do the wrong thing, the role was not sent in time to the Ministry, only in April, when you also responded quickly. I don't know, Your Honor, I don't think that's funny. And because this was not respected, these were illegalities in the proceedings to which the Supreme Court had determined that what had been said by the Administrative Court, which had already ruled on it, and that they had forgotten to give the press when the individual application was given — not twice — or not twice — because it is absurd. But apparently someone didn't know because he wasn't an expert in this area, or because he deliberately caused some kind of irregularity. But that's illegal. The court decided that. And this happened at the social work centre, which, I agree, is independent. However, you have a body within the Ministry, you have an Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work carrying out inspection tasks under which the social inspection belongs. And under the Staff Regulations, this body is composed of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. And through this body, you correctly ordered control, but you also knew how this control was carried out – they only went through the report of the Centre for Social Work, but they did not ask the other parties that they could actually exercise their control with credibility. And you believed it, trusted it, went to a press conference, and so on, what we've heard. Furthermore, Minister, you've said several times that it's up to the street to decide. Who's that street? Have you thought about the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia here? They're street to you? You're covering a very sensitive area, and I think it's rather inappropriate. You have said many times, “the use of children”. Why would a child spend three months with his or her parents if it were not for their benefit? If it were not, the center would have had this opportunity and would have taken the child earlier, immediately after these tragic events, and apparently it was not contrary to the child’s benefit that they were in the family community with their parents. And last but not least around custody. Exceptionally, Article 182 of the Marriage and Family Relations Act shall be decided differently. As a rule, in such cases, a member of the family shall be appointed as the custodian. Exceptionally, it is explicitly written “if this is not contrary to the interests of the guardian” – someone else is appointed as guardian, as was the case in this case. But then why were you with your parents for three months? You also mentioned the removal of parental rights. Yeah. You know, Dad was in custody the whole time. He couldn't even exercise parental rights. And I don't know on what basis then the social work centre won't make a motion to the court to decide on this. So there's a lot of confusion. However, you have also devoted a great deal of your introductory address to what should be, what should be, what is being done, including the reorganisation of social work centres. Dear Minister! On 15 May 2013, this is about three and a half years ago, you said in your public statement that the pilot project of the reorganisation would be launched in the second half of 2013 and that the reorganisation would be carried out in early 2015. On my last oral question on the reorganisation – I think in November – you spoke about how wide this project is. I agree with that. But this reorganisation has been under your wing for years. And a respected coalition, I don't know, at the time of the first interpretation, I understood that this is also one of the conditions that must be met for you to support the Minister of Labour and trust her, but to this day it hasn't. But we know when she said she would be, but at the time it wasn't. We realize it's a project you can't do overnight, but it's not done overnight. It's been working for at least three and a half years and we don't have it here today. I really don't know the Family Code, but the government is supposed to be looking at it today. [[…]] I am pleased if all of our interpretations encourage at least that the Government is actually starting to prepare something and to work in this direction so that it is possible to do so, I will say, additional pressure and then some things need to be prepared. And I really hope that this family code is first and foremost in line with coalition partners and that it is not going to, I don't know, force it on the government, because it is time to get it through today. I really hope that this family code at first stage of course you have it in common, so that there will be no unpleasantness when we consider it here in the National Assembly. There's been a lot of talk about the relationship between the ministry and the body within the structure, about what the Institute of Interpellation is basically using, and I'm going to read what I did before, but obviously some things here are very much forgotten, and I'm going to do it again. On 13 December 2001, the Institute for Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana issued a legal opinion entitled “Relationship between the Ministry and the body in the composition”. It's about eminent lawyers, and I believe you'll trust them more than you trust me, for example, who I'm not a lawyer, so I'm going to read this legal opinion. It was made by Prof. Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Prof. Dr. Igor Kaučič and Prof. Dr. Franc City. We'll just go over the interpolation. “In the parliamentary system, Parliament shall exercise political oversight over the work of the Government. Parliament's political oversight is therefore focused on the functioning of the Government and ministers, which is one of the fundamental features of the parliamentary system. The direct responsibility of the Government or the Minister can therefore only be exercised through various forms, intensive forms of political oversight that enable the Government or the Minister to exercise political responsibility and to replace them, such as the non-truster in particular, and may also be interpolated. The position of the Government as a whole and of the Minister is therefore characterised by the political responsibility of Parliament, which is also adapted to the powers and manner in which they operate. The political responsibility of the government and the ministers of Parliament is due to the fact that Parliament cannot communicate with state officials, but only with the summit of the state administration, i.e. with ministers. This is even more pronounced in our system because the Heads of State do not appoint ministers as President of the Republic, but rather as the National Assembly itself.” I really don't see one reason why we've abused the Interpelationary Institute, Madam Secretary-General, I'm sorry. We can communicate with you about the area of work you are covering, of course, and interpellation is one of the institutions we have as an opposition. And given the irregularities, proven irregularities, of course, it's also right that we took advantage of them. Given that the obvious awareness of the importance of human rights in this National Assembly is so low, but of course we had to confirm this further, I will say the reasoned circumstances following the Supreme Court's judgment. Now it's about the minister's responsibility. I read from the same legal opinion: “Ministers are both government members and heads of administrative bodies, as shown in their rights and duties. Each Minister shall, in accordance with the policy adopted, lead and represent the Ministry, provide political guidance for the work of the Ministry and its bodies, supervise their work, issue regulations and other acts within the competence of the Ministry and the authorities in its composition, and carry out other tasks laid down by law or other regulation.” On the individual responsibility of the minister: "The individual responsibility of the minister is shown in that each minister is also fully responsible for the ministry's work, and of course also for his own work. In this context, the Minister is responsible for both the Ministry's policy and its implementation in individual cases. This means that he is responsible not only for his work but also for the work of his subordinates, of course within the Ministry's remit. The individual responsibility of the Minister in Parliament shall be exercised primarily by interpolation.” So please, I think that any further discussion on whether or not the interpretation is on the spot in a given case is, of course, completely superfluous here. The Minister shall provide political guidance for the work of the bodies in the composition and supervise their work. Now there is just something about the supervisory function of this legal opinion: “The supervisory function in the administrative process represents a feedback of information on the whole event in a particular part of the ministry. The Minister must therefore have access to all relevant information relating to the work of the body in the composition, otherwise he cannot perform this function by law.” We know what organs are in the system – the labour inspectorate and within it the social inspectorate, so I hope that we will not be turning too much around on this. Now, if we're going to do the same thing. With regard to custody, I have already reiterated that it is really a little strange that the center acted as it did. But further on, the role for foster care was complete, submitted to the competent Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec. Of course, from the Centre for Social Work, the Centre prepares an opinion and then submits it to the Ministry. This has not happened in this case and this is a key irregularity that has occurred. And that meant that these two boys were taken from their old parents. In addition, the Centre for Social Work of Velenje, before receiving a decision from the Ministry, placed the boy in foster care without taking into account what this decision will be, whether positive or negative. And that's the problem that happened, and that's the consequence of everything, even what happened next, and of course it's extremely inappropriate. Minister, I repeat: the social inspection falls directly, I will say, this is some of your supervisory institute that you have and through which you can also request extraordinary examinations, as you did correctly. But you can be familiar with all the documents he has because you need to be familiar with them, otherwise you cannot perform your supervisory function. And it was more than obvious that there was an irregularity here. Even to the negligence of the social inspection itself, which did not detect the irregularities identified below by the Administrative Court and then by the Supreme Court. And to this day, you haven't identified yourself until the part of the social inspection. The Director is still in the same place, the Director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, resigned from the Director of the Centre for Social Work Velenje following the ruling of the Administrative Court, while the Director of Social Inspection is still in his post, although the illegalities he should have identified in the review were proven. Now, I am going to get a little more involved in the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. Desus; at least given what we've heard from the media, we weren't here today, I'll say, surprised you won't support the interpretation this time. It is an interesting statement, however, that we want to build up political points by talking about two boys and so on. You ignored all the irregularities that have taken place here. And as you yourself said, you did not support the first interpretations for irregularities and human rights violations. You supported them solely because you were politically calculating, which is, of course, extremely inappropriate. I hope people miss it, too. We want to talk here today only about procedures – about the irregularities that have taken place in these procedures. Of course, in your views, you spoke about everything else. During the month of June, Desus spoke of a great dissatisfaction with social policies, and I will simply have to make some of these statements, because there are six months of differences in the laws in this area we have not had much in this National Assembly. [[…]] And it's interesting, this big twist, or as my colleague Jurš said, that it's not 360 – I don't know. Well, then we can say how much? I don't know, 359 or as much as you want. Then, among other things, Comrade Jurš said that the devil was in detail. That the case of the Korean boys would probably not have been if the minister had not been very late with a proposal for a new family code, which, among other things, defines fostering. Well, it's obviously going to be accepted by the government today. You have probably coordinated around its contents for a long time now, so that we will soon begin to consider it in the National Assembly. He further said to his colleague Jurš: “We have been waiting for a decade for the law on long-term care.” I don't know, I don't want to wait another decade, but we're still waiting for this marriage. That the minister didn't have a proper hearing about the Senior Elderly Volunteering Project. I don't know, maybe this is where you found one common language. That it is all the more surprising that its social policies are unfortunately not effective enough. We are spending a billion and a half euros on social transfers at annual level, but in fact it is only a matter of putting out the fire and there is no real effect. At the same time, we are waiting for the Ministry to finalise a labour market reform, which is in fact the only real answer to many social questions. Unfortunately for now, I do not see any change in this area in order to reduce. We are still giving probably the same billion and a half or as much as said Comrade Jurša about social transfers. If things are being prepared in the field of labour market regulation, great. This will be discussed a second time when we will also have these laws in the National Assembly. However, I will have little to do with the statement made by the President of the SD, which links effective social policy to how much money we spend on social policy. I would say that we must bind ourselves to employment and to the jobs we have, not to the money we give for these purposes. Mr Jurš also said: “We do not support the Minister’s policy in the field of the Centre for Social Work; social workers are too burdensome with administration.” I don't know if anything's changed here. We cannot go beyond the fact that the Ministry of Labour has been in control for almost a decade, as is evident in the human resources structure of the Ministry itself. That's not good for the country. You could also say something about human resources in the world of institutions, social work centres, home for the elderly, where the SD party sometimes behaves a little too domestically. Now I don't know if you've cleared all the SD footage from social work centers, then home for the elderly, what else was mentioned here, or how? Is he no longer in charge of politics? Have you done anything to allow Desus to do now and now Desus will be in charge of these institutions or what? Because if I remember correctly, maybe this is where the problem was. So not about who's picking up political points. You abused the content of this interpretation, which is not negligible; it is a violation of human rights. Just to achieve something — what? That now Desus will be in charge of these institutions. I hope that you will not have political resources, that you will be in charge of professional training and that in a year or two we will not discuss cases of illegality that will occur due to such political recruitment. Because if there was an expert in place – but in the final stage it is completely irrelevant what the political option is, even if it is politically discolored, I have no problem with it – as long as the expert and his work is doing professionally and legally, then there is no problem. However, when a person who is not an expert is placed in a place, and when we look at the Internet a little bit, we see that there have been announcements, that a person does not have adequate work experience, that he is taking up a job, and then, by repeated calls and voting, that the person comes to a specific place of work, and then that person does not act legally and makes mistakes, as has happened in this process, forgive me, and then we can no longer be silent here, no. So, my colleagues from Desus, I really ask you, if you and the SD party have been "studying" around the workforce now, be professionally qualified, if you are planning to recruit, but this is extremely, extremely inappropriate, really. Maybe just a statement from a colleague of Prikla on October 20th, that was after the Supreme Court's decision. At that time, he said what the media states: "Messenger Uroš Prikl of the Supreme Court's decision today is considered to be very unpleasant gold because the spears of high politics break in the fate of children. It is a concrete example of his alarm and a signal that there is something wrong in the area of social policy. He also said that the Minister of Social and Family Policy at the Ministry was responsible for the smooth functioning of the system. The case of the Korean boys is certainly one of the deviations in this system, which needs to be re-examined and done at the systemic level, so that such stories will no longer occur." I hope you fellow Desus are aware of this very well. SD, in some way I completely understand your position – you're defending, you're standing for the Minister, which I think is perfectly normal. [[…]] But to say that there is no world for us, I find it extremely inappropriate. And I will reiterate: what really matters to us is that the procedures are legal. In this case, it has been shown that they were irregular and illegal – first with the Administrative Court, because, of course, the social inspectorate, which is within the Ministry, did not find this, then this Administrative Court – and then also with the Supreme Court. And that's what the problem is, and someone in this case certainly has to answer. I also stress the position of the Non-aligned Members once again, we are not talking about the case here, we are not pointing out any facts, we are not judging whether the old parents are suitable foster parents or not. [[…]] We're not talking about this, we're talking about procedures that have happened. And there are irregularities in the proceedings, and we can't deny it. Human rights have been violated. It's simple, the procedure was illegal and the point was, we have nothing to discuss. I really want an answer from the Minister, whether it was a constant practice that social work centres did not submit an application to the Ministry. How many such cases have there been if there have been more? Because these were all illegals in the process. And after all, who's responsible? What do you see as the responsibility of a social inspection that has not identified these irregularities? As far as the position of the largest coalition party is concerned. Interpellation of the opposition; you're obviously in a lot of pain to have us interpellation. Look, we're using everything we've been given, we're asking parliamentary questions, we're proposing laws, we're amending laws, we're proposing amendments. But in this case, the Minister didn't react, he didn't react to the Prime Minister. The only thing we can do, according to the Supreme Court, is to discuss it with the National Assembly. Finally, in our system, ministers are appointed by the National Assembly and it is therefore right for Members to reiterate their responsibility. However, this is not a matter of pressure on authorities in order to undermine confidence in public authorities, no. But the Minister is responsible for the fact that the state authorities, which belong to the Ministry of Labour, act legally. And she's responsible for that, and she's doing everything she can to make it work. For the end, perhaps now in this first part, I will read just what has been written even after the Supreme Court decision in Evening, by Dr Barbara Rajgelj's lawyer. Among other things, she wrote: “The work of social work centres is certainly very difficult, responsible and sometimes without the right solution, but it is not an excuse for illegal activity. Even more, legal action can facilitate their work. Clear and predictable procedures and decision-making in a legally valid form and with a qualitative explanation facilitate the work of decision makers and enhance the legal security of users. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible that the executive authority, with the help of lawyers and public relations agencies, without the need to deny respect for human rights." I couldn't agree more with the writing. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	The representative of the proposaler took part in the debate between Members and Members, which we continue with Mr Saša Tabakovic. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Minister's re-interpellation, or re-interpellation, is based on the case of the so-called Korean boys, who has very upset the public as well as the media. I admit that I myself have used the institution of the question of the Member States to clarify the whole picture of this case by drawing attention to the systemic regulation of legislation and to reconsider the concept of understanding progressive family policy. So what is actually going on in the field of legislation is that these cases do not happen, as of course, as a representative of the legislative branch of power. So I think that this is primarily the task of Members and not just some dispute over certain specific cases. As far as the concept of progressive family policy is concerned, this was also one of the conditions of the Modern Centre Party Group to the Minister at the time of the last interpretation, to prepare a modern family code as soon as possible. In fact, if this family code were to be available today, this unfortunate case of the Korean boys would probably not be any more. I am talking about the solutions that envision the establishment of so-called family courts, which would clearly delimit jurisdiction in the event of the abduction of children, which, as a result, also means the reorganisation and importance of social work centres. We are all aware that children are a constitutional category and, of course, we agree that their well-being needs to be best cared for, especially at times where a parent family is not capable of doing so. This is, of course, the responsibility of all of us and, of course, the responsibility of the community. And I must admit that, of course, the Minister has fulfilled her promise in this part. Indeed, we also had a family code in coalition coordination, and today it will also be addressed by the government. And this family code also foresees the solutions I was talking about, namely the establishment of so-called family courts. They will therefore, in fair and unfair proceedings, decide on disputes relating to the protection, upbringing and survival of children, as well as on the extension or termination of parental rights, which will be defined as a new parental care. It will also be appropriate, as it were said, to put a child in foster care or into an adoptive family. In particular, with a view to all stakeholders who will be involved in these proceedings, the family court will aim, as it would call it, at somehow equal treatment or equal treatment points. As regards the issue of social work centres, it should be borne in mind that the current organisation of social work centres is somehow in some strange conflict of responsibility and decision in the performance of the tasks they have, and this organisation relies on legislation which also imposes these tasks on them. The fact is that the social profession within social work centres is simply to a certain extent certainly overloaded when the procedures concern both complex cases and child abduction. And the result of this burden is certainly also the children’s removal procedure, which we are talking about, in which the Supreme Court decided that the proceedings themselves were not properly carried out, but otherwise the Supreme Court did not determine the substance of the case. But there are consonants. We know that two Directors of the Centre for Social Work have resigned and it is true that, of course, there is also an open question about the role of the Director of Inspection. However, the question remains whether a violation of a legal procedure at one of the centres for social work is a reason, an objective reason for the Minister to resign. This, of course, is a legitimate question, but it is important to ask how we will set an objective responsibility criterion. Will there be an objective criterion on the basis of decisions of courts in which officials will not be directly involved? The question of responsibility is certainly on the ground, but if we are talking about liability on the basis of court decisions, then we must also ask ourselves about the decisions of the courts when the various parties of the SDS were ministering. Let us just remember the case of the deleted, which in fact damaged an enormous number of citizens, and therefore the ministers did not give up. So when we talk about the hygiene of the officials, it's totally in place, and I completely agree with that, but it seems to me that when we talk about hygiene itself, of course, it is necessary to take a case and somehow release this map and the context of a particular case. I am also saying this in the light of the fact that the Minister has already already pointed out the obsolete legislation, which, as it is said, is, of course, a good point for mistakes that have also taken place at the Centre for Social Work. After all, this error, as it is said, would have abolished the family code, but we know that it has been in preparation since 2012. We also need to have this history in mind, when it was ready, and for some reason, the family code basically fell down. So when we talk about objective responsibility, we must somehow have a slightly broader picture ahead of us, and I personally believe that the Minister did not act in such a contentious way as to require her resignation. It is also true that interpellation is a political issue and that this issue must also be addressed in the way the ministry's vision through the minister is – in this case, what is the real social vision or social policy of the State. Overall, for social transfers to individuals and households in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, a billion €220 million is planned for 2016, which is actually more than €40 million for 2015, and the largest share of this expenditure, of course, falls to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs – a billion hundred million. And the structure of these funds or transfers consists of the largest share for family benefits, parental benefits, social security transfers, transfers to the unemployed, scholarships and the like, which means, of course, that the Government devotes as much as 13% of the total state budget to the work of social policy. I don't think it's small and I think it's also a reflection of how deeply the President of the Government is, of course, also the entire coalition is socially sensitive. It is true, however, that the question on the ground is what is actually happening if I can say with this part of the budget, how these funds are spent and how, of course, we understand social policy in this part. Of course, there remain open questions about what is actually going on with social transfers, how effective these are, to what extent they appropriately address issues for the resolution of the most vulnerable groups. Because we need to be aware; when I listened to my colleague Kordiš's position, where he said that only a few EUR 300 of social assistance belonged to an individual, while ignoring information on how much money went from child support. But in fact, today's children's allowances have become a social adjustment and in this sense we have a conservative social policy, where in a way a lot of spending is given to families, which is right, but on the other hand, it also forgets some individuals who do not create families, and it is also known later on in other social policies concerning housing subsidies and so on. It is also an open question of what is going on with labour legislation. So, what are the real protected workers like when they're exploited? Let's just think of a case from the woodworking industry. What exactly is going on with the prairie? Because this has become a phenomenon that, unfortunately, is becoming more and more massive. These are some questions that I believe will be subject to some changes in this mandate. And I can also say that in this sense I also expect greater agility from the Minister and the Ministry. I am saying this in particular out of the knowledge that it is simply this area, which is extremely sensitive to our citizens and citizens, even in some general perception of politics, including this call by the National Assembly, because social policy has a profound impact on the everyday life of our citizens and citizens. And since the Minister's interpellation is also an opportunity to present his work and his vision, of course, I would also like to see that my open questions are likely to be answered by the wider community, with which the Minister will convince us of the value of the mandate he has given to her in fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor, Mrs Lepi Šimenko, you have the floor as representative of the proposer, and Mr Jan Škoberne is behind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'll be very short, but still. I believe that the interpretation is intended to answer the questions raised in the content of the interpretation itself. I don't know what's going to happen in any way. I don't know what's going to happen in the first place. [[…]] Today I think it's right to focus on the content of the interpretation itself. And again, I would ask the Minister to answer the key questions, what is the role of social inspection here. Why did this social inspection fail to identify the irregularities identified by the Administrative Court and then by the Supreme Court? Finally, colleague Tabaković wondered about this. But maybe I'd like to explain a few more things to him. Yes, we are truly competent here to adopt legislation, but on the other hand we have an executive branch of authority, which then enforces it. But what do you do when she, I don't know, ignores it? There are several cases that have occurred under this government when the executive branch of individual articles of individual laws does not respect. And he's going through it. And we, as the opposition, take it as our duty to point out such irregularities. It is our duty to do so. You, a respected coalition, sometimes let us listen a little bit to you to see that we are actually saying legitimate things. With regard to what should be the criterion of objective responsibility, perhaps only to Comrade Tabakovic: I do not know whether the violation of human rights, which is now legally established by the Supreme Court judgment, is a sufficiently strong criterion?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert and the Magi ready. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, esteemed State Secretary's Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, it is far too much to discuss or why the interpolation tool is in the hands of the opposition. It is right to use it and it is right that we also deal with interpolation when it is put into the National Assembly in accordance with all the rules we have for this. There is no doubt about it, and there can be no doubt about it. More fun or interesting is, of course, the question of what is the purpose of this interpretation, especially when we place it in the context of the fact that we have considered the last interpretation even against the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia 21 days ago. It hasn't been a month since we've been doing all of what we're going to be doing in a very focused part of one of the departments for 11 hours now. Before that, we have already completely overlooked this same subject. During the two periods of these topics, we have considered other departments and other interpolations; it is perfectly legitimate, perfectly correct, this is a tool of the opposition. But we can ask ourselves what we're doing with the interpolation institute. At each interpretation, there are fewer Members and Members present in the Chamber, including by the proposer, also by the partners on the right, which they usually hide, today apparently at least during my debate there is no one. And interpellation as an institution that the opposition in the National Assembly has in this way loses its value. But again, it will be judged by those whose interpretation as a tool is primarily intended. Back to purpose. When does the opposition usually decide to start mass investment of interpretations — in each order, occasionally at all, and then start the same circle again? When he's having problems with his own consolidation. When she has to find an external enemy, she can fortify her own species to be found again, to count, as they say. And logically, we can understand: many exits from the biggest opposition party, including exit from the parliamentary group, the establishment of new parties, even in view of friction within the coalition in recent months, the feeling that elections will be here soon, all of this has the logical consequence of finding an external enemy, uniting internal species and what is more convenient than interpolation. With your finger pointing at someone else, you're not on camera alone. But this is a matter, as has already been said, of the proposer and of the one who decides to do so, such as the motioner's decision not to propose to appoint a Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly to them under the Rules of Procedure. Since it is easier to resist than to work, it is easier to criticize than to contribute constructively. But since I do not believe that this is the purpose of the proposalr, I am pleased that in re-submission of the same interpretation with even a slighter content than I finally recognized that the Slovenian Democratic Party also understood how important the concepts of the circular economy are, how important it is that we use something more than we can use, that we do not burden the environment and that we are looking for added value with something that is possible and can be used more than once. Simple as that. The President of the National Assembly does not merely judge the content of the interpretation, but notes that the procedural reasons for its submission have been met and that the interpretation is in turn. So if we need an external enemy, if we need a media space and if we need internal consolidation, we can invest this same interpolation over and over and over again, we can extract some added value from it until we can bring it down to a single micro problem that can no longer be addressed because all of this is solved. And I am very pleased that this concept of the circular economy, at least in this part, understands the Slovenian Democratic Party, because finally, colleague Breznik, who spoke about it, did not fully understand it. But if I return for a moment to interpolation and to what, in subtleness, is trying to achieve, like yesterday's pharmacy amendment of New Slovenia. This interpellation has an integrated attack in its core or at least a very serious criticism and a requirement to revise the currently existing republican system that we have. This is a system where no institution of authority is able to decide on its own initiative because of its own character in general, as it seems, only because it is the holder of the authority. That is why we have a system that prevents the authorities from voluntarily — but now I will borrow your dictatorship — from stealing children or from deciding when a family is more suitable for intervention by the state, and sometimes less. That such a system is not suitable for modern times, that it is not the system of the Republic that we have, is clearly long ago. The Magna Carta Libertatum would not have been accepted and established if everything had been good for the Feds to always decide the fate of the people, as if it were their livestock, as if it were their property. That is not the case, and that is how the authorities in the country – ministers, the President of the Government, all officials – cannot and cannot act. That's why we have the system. And the thesis that the minister is responsible for this because she did not go through the system because she did not abuse it and because she did not intervene and exceeded her powers is precisely this – a threat to the republican model of the country that we have and which has been under construction for many years and we must not give up. Of course, I could also discuss the case in question, but it seems to me that this is already in the first interpretation — in the reply of the Minister, in many public debates that have unfortunately taken place — it has been said so many times that the particular need for us to warm up the story is not. Today, the Minister will also be sure to respond to the proposer's initiative. It would be unusual, given the extent of the problem and the time it has, to answer each of the Members and Members that have been notified separately. It would even be logical for me, as usual on the committees, to summarize and present my answers in works after at least some of the Members and Members of Parliament have held their debate. Since it is not to be forgotten, this is not a debate between the proposer and the government. This is a debate on the interpretation that we are conducting by Members and Members, because we will decide and because both the proposal and the answer to the table are available, so we can make the relevant decision. And while this time in interpretation, which I am pleased, this is not the subject of a question and a proposal for a decision, allow me to focus briefly also on the policies implemented by the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities. There has been a lot of criticism, I must say here, mainly by my colleagues on my right, on the radical left, who do not really understand the difference between our vision, the social democratic view of social policy and perhaps radically leftist. And there's been a crucial misunderstanding. For someone only transfers are important, only the amount of social assistance, and for someone else it is important to build the possibility of honest employment, fair work and understanding of social policy, including family policies primarily through employment. And the key achievement of the ministry and the ministry leading it is that from the time of the biggest crisis, when there were 130 000 unemployed, there are fewer than 30,000 unemployed people in this country today after three years, with the number of workers rising and the number of unemployed falling. The number of people on the minimum wage has been halved, so they receive higher incomes. More than €300 million is earmarked for youth employment only over the next four-year period 2016 to 2020. In addition to the active employment policy of older people. And this is an essential and fundamental social policy: creating jobs, enabling the development of new jobs and enabling people to live decently with their work and not only to survive but also to live. And it's not just a matter of minimum income that someone gets. It is a question of how to prevent such transfers from being necessary at all – by facilitating employment, environmental competitiveness and, finally, by making the country more employers-friendly. Only by reducing bureaucratic barriers through measures and changes in the laws of this Minister during her ministry has the burden on the country and the economy decreased by 84 million euros. That doesn't matter. That's of great importance. For the first time since 2016 we have scholarships for deficit jobs, a thousand scholarships. Why? Because at the right time it has been recognized that we need some professions, some knowledge, some skills that have been long neglected and neglected, so that we can enable the economic potential to develop trade, little entrepreneurship and what is in Slovenia, that is a fact that is missing. But of course, no one is talking about these measures because it is not opportunistic to say that the Minister has done well in her actions, that she implements good social policies, good family policies and that her work is worth not interpreting, but much praise. And one last thing that seems extremely important to me. Today, he is a proposaler who is extremely concerned about the family — and so is — who has not contributed to the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. I don't know if it's true that everything in the wind can change, whether it's true that we can forget everything and that nothing matters. Just like my friend Kordish's. Borut Pahor's government was, in his opinion, the worst. Yes, you can. The fact is, it was the only government that raised the minimum wage for a third. That it was a government that, in the most difficult economic situation, subsidized working time and kept jobs, so that people could work further, that the country had passed the crisis, and that we did not find ourselves at a point where people could only be saved by social transfers, which we did not have money for, but that we allowed people to work to live from their jobs. And this is a key misunderstanding of social policies led by Dr. Anja Kopač Dark. However, I am pleased that several representatives of the proposer have gathered on the SDS side during my debate. And, dear colleagues, I look forward to the continuation of today's debate, and I am very grateful to you that you have enabled me now more than once a month to discuss this as well. Thank you very much and all well, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Procedurally, Mr. Jernej Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, but SD remains truly trapped in the past. This has been seen through this debate. By no means can Jan forget yesterday's session when we had the pharmacy law and our amendment, but I think that more than our amendment, which is given video statements after the National Assembly, cannot possibly forget that our amendment actually means nothing more than a conscientious objection. Because the Minister of Health said yesterday that the objection to conscience was already in existing legislation. That may have caused this trauma from the past. And first of all, I'm going to say: the pioneer proposal of the SD and the Jans to deal with what is today and what will happen tomorrow, not what happened yesterday with this past, if not already in 1945, as usual. The procedural proposal is that we stick to the agenda item, President, at this meeting, not to talk about other things, but to interpretation, not to what the actions of the Pahor Government have been. Thank you for all the bananas, but also for all the debts involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you. Look, my dear colleague and respectable Vice-President, I would like to take this into account and focus on today's topic. The topic is to interpellate the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the topic is the deprivation of rights, the violation of rights, the violation of entire articles of the Convention. And ask your colleague Škobernet not to explain some circular economy and such matters. Then I'll check in. I can give him a class, like, an hour and a half. When I was his age, I used to work, work, create, and learn. After 40 years, I came into politics to try and enforce these practices through legislation. I would therefore like to ask that we go to the point and that Mr Škoberne and other colleagues from SD are trying to prove with arguments why it was right to kidnap the boy in the middle of the day and take them away and what kind of doctrine this is and whether they have any objections to it. This is what today's debate must be, an argument against an argument. So I ask you to take this into account and give some instructions to your colleagues in the SD to get back to the point. About the circular economy, colleague Škoberne, next time I'll tell you all about how it works, how it doesn't actually work and causes even greater poverty. So much for me. Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to follow my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	We've got another procedural one. Mr. Matjaž Han, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Vice President, thank you very much. Otherwise, you might have reacted, but [[…]] I agree, Franci, with an argument against an argument. I believe that you may not have listened to the debate that already took place in this national assembly, in this middle, where exactly what Jan did, he went with the arguments he had, sir or pardon, Comrade Kordish. And that's all we talked about, and that's all we're talking about. But if we were to talk about the interpretation that's on the table today, then as far as I'm concerned, we should obstruct this meeting. Not because it's not a topic, but because I personally don't know any new facts about why this interpolation occurred. But Mr. Jan Škoberne spoke only of what some had said in this hall an hour and a half ago. Thank you very much. I know it's hard to listen because it's hard for me to listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	I'll be very brief. I would only ask you, Matjaž, to take into account – I hope you have read why it goes – that there are new facts, the new judgment was legal between this time and the other interpretation. And tell your colleague Skobernet that your former party president himself said that his government was catastrophic and that he had misidentified problems and had the wrong solutions to these problems. As an example, he also cited the rehabilitation of the banking system, which he detected too late, which is why I would ask you, because you are older, you have more experience telling your colleague Skobernet that the SD president himself said that he had a catastrophic government to take that into account. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. Although I did not understand what the procedural proposal was, I understand that we have all come to realize that we must be framed in the content that is at the forefront today. So I suggest we proceed with what we're here for. Madam Speaker, you have the floor. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I might respond to the Minister's failure to respond at this point, which is that it is right to somehow round things up. If I look at past experiences, at least from this mandate; in most cases, ministers spoke after the presentation of all the views of the groups, they made that first conclusion and, of course, the need to respond further. So I would expect the distinguished minister to respond to our questions raised so far and to give important answers. In particular, I will reiterate, with regard to the responsibility and role of social inspection and the procedures themselves. How it could actually have been allowed to do this at social work centres, which has already been exposed. However, I have to respond briefly to the implementation of my colleague Škobernet, and I will start at the back, there in the praise of this social policy. You know, this December time, the pre-festive time of many experiences is very tragic. Not as happy as anyone here or, I don't know, there at the SD party. I don't know, whenever I go to the store, they're out of the wheelchair, and there's food for people who can't buy it. So I'm really worried about how you afford such praises for the success of this social policy. [[…]] Go a little among the people, among the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and they will tell you about these successes and how they can survive, how those who work can survive, not least. Now it doesn't matter. The first question asked was what was the purpose of this interpretation. Honourable Member, on 19 October, the Supreme Court’s legal judgment found that the abduction of children was illegal for the aged parents to have been violated by the Constitution of protected human rights. And you say there are no new circumstances here. Of course they are. It's a court-martial. You asked yourself what the purpose of this interpretation is, and I answer that. Let's look at the magnetogram, and we'll see. You also mentioned that the interpolation was a few days ago an interpretation of the government. Yeah, that's when we discussed what you did or what you didn't do on this government team. Before that, we have discussed very similar content, but as we say, we have new circumstances here. In October, a judgment of the Supreme Court was publicly announced, which is clear — the abduction of children was illegal and was a violation of constitutionally protected human rights. And here I don't think there's anything to fool around with. However, we would also like to ask the President-in-Office that we should really continue this meeting on the subject, and this is the interpretation and content of this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I actually enjoy it when I have a gentleman or colleague Jan Škoberne in front of me, because every time he does, he blows up so much that he smiles a little bit, and then he wonders where we really live. His debate on interpolation has been reduced for a while, which we have all been through. He was looking for his enemies today, but he forgot about the inside. The only thing missing in his debate was that conclusion, and this is obviously the same today: to achieve the objective, all the appropriations are allowed. And here with Jan Schobernet, of course, we won't agree. In fact, they remain there at a time when you could have done what you wanted and could have done what you wanted; they were violating human rights, and nothing happened. Today, I hope that this rule of law or the rule of law is not only apparent. But when I listened to some of the discussions in this National Assembly, I felt that for someone, it was actually all seeming. For in the opinions and also in some debates – personally, this has greatly disturbed me – the facts have been given in terms of – from the previous interpretation to today nothing has practically happened. Colleagues and colleagues, how did nothing happen? The Supreme Court has ruled that there has been a violation of constitutional rights. How can any member of this National Assembly say that nothing or anything significant has happened since then? Then, in one of the debates, I listened to how we shouldn't actually talk about this in this National Assembly, it's about some specific cases, the interpretation is pointless, we should talk about other things. We have opinions from citizens and citizens – those who lived directly around this family. We have court decisions, we have proof that legislation has been violated and that things have not happened as they should. What the hell else do we need in this country, that one minister in this government will just take responsibility and say, "Look, something went terribly wrong and the fact is I don't have it under control." The Minister may say that she is not objectively responsible, that she is not subjectively responsible. But the Minister, however, you are no longer in control of your ministry, you are incapable or otherwise. Or you wanted in the first place to defend your party species and somehow put your expertise under the rug and when you failed, of course this picture turned to the other side. But if that is true, then this interpolation is even more excused, because it is entirely a political responsibility, because political ownership is at the forefront and I will explain why. First of all, this. The case that we are dealing with today is not the cause of this interpolation, the result is respected! It's due to the lack of expertise, the illegality and the absurd situation at the moment. If there were people working at these centers who actually have a professional basis, I believe that this might not happen at all. We have a lot of experts in this country, I don't know, like Mr Borut Pogačnik – not least your country president upgraded him for his work – and he made it clear that something is very wrong here. Let's go in one order. The Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, was led by Yuri Šumečnik. There were comments prior to his appointment that it was a person who did not have professional references who could happen that the work would not be carried out in a quality and not in a professional way. It is true, however, that the SD Regional Coordination President was mentioned. So, this is a close client friend. That this matter is not so insignificant, it also states that despite all the irregularities, the Minister did not call for a resignation, but did so himself. But look at the fraction, we're talking about a lot of unemployed today. One, two, three got a job in Elektro Celje. Elektro Celje, where the municipal councilors of SD also sit in the supervisory council. Then what is it? He worked non-professionally, and then apparently now he's very skilled in electro; from the social work center he went to Elektro Celje, and this way he gets a job, even before things cool down. Take care of your frame so quickly. And then don't tell me everything in this story was as good as it should have been. What's more, listen to these things, how they've been going on. How the authorities protected each other with their hand in this case. The minister told us several times behind this stage how someone could abuse the pain of children and families; the minister, on April 6, you stood in front of the cameras and talked about it. Yeah, why? Then why didn't you give up the press conference and say, "we won't talk until all the facts are known." No, no, no. You went to a press conference, and not alone, she also took Dr. Gabi Chachinovich Vogrinčič with her. For citizens, by the way, it may also be interesting to know that the above mentioned said that for her was the greatest stress in life when Dr. Pučnik said, “Yugoslavija is no longer, it is now Slovenia”. But let's just leave it. She participated in this press conference as an expert and said she was familiar with the data and information. She got them. Then few people even began to wonder and a proposal was made by the citizen to the information officer, in what role Mrs Gabi Čačinovic Vogrinčič played, as she was aware of the personal data of the parents and children. I have no interest in any way – verbally or in writing – but the lady claimed she knew things. The secretary is responsible for her presence at the press conference. And from the Office of the Information Officer, they answered or wrote that there was no problem and that the rules were not violated. This opinion, however, was drawn up by the representative of the information officer on the basis of the record of the press conference. It is said that whether the data was misused, this was assessed on the basis of a press conference record. Oh, come on. And of course, that she is the expert mentioned and that she performed there, listen further as a supervisor. That's the official's response! Of course, people have moved forward, and what quickly came to the conclusion that Mrs Chachinovich is not a supervisor and that she does not have this function. And when the information officer received a new question, but she started turning things around differently and the answer was no longer a press conference, it was no longer a matter of what was said there, but that the contract had been signed with the lady and that everything was fine. Oh, come on. Then we find that the contract was not signed in time and that the lady participated in a press conference without a contract; she was not a supervisor, and she was certainly chosen at the request of the Minister, because no one would tell me in this Chamber or in this Slovenia that the Minister had cooperated under duress with someone at the press conference. But it's not the doctor's fault, which the secretary is very good at working with. The point is that they were looking for a way to cover up illegalities and irregularities not only by non-professional people but by party colleagues. That is why our institutions are being used, and that is different; from the information officer, to the centres, to the ministries. And that's unacceptable. If you confirm today that the Minister remains here, then you prove that anything is possible in this country. It does not matter what the court says, it does not matter that the Constitution is being violated, it is only important to protect the party's colleagues and colleagues and to preserve the authority. But no one with a little ethics and morality could do that. And one more thing to do. After one year of rule, the President of the Government made the following statement: "One of the priorities of this government is also to restore confidence in people in the rule of law. We will focus our activities on a higher level of human rights protection." Let me finish, Your Honor. The Supreme Court found that human rights were violated. The Prime Minister has told you that you will raise the level of human rights protection. How can you allow Anja Digač Dark to still sit in this chair? And don't talk about the lights, don't talk about it being back on the floor! She doesn't have to be, just let her write a resignation statement, because this is about citizens and citizens. And don't play by exposing some individual children, boys; for every child in this country, it's about everyone. Because it could happen to anyone and we owe it to them in this country to take care of it. However, as I have listened to many other discussions on how other areas work, I will only point out to the ministers what they are actually doing at the Employment Institute, what criteria they are employing people. Yes, Minister, I'm still waiting for your answer. But they are, I'd say, not just accusations but serious injustices, quite specific. If it is partly true what has come to the public and what has happened to us Members, then the Minister should as soon as possible pick up the papers and make a resignation statement for your client, if not for another reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Muršič and Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members, Representatives of the Government and other Members! I know from my own experience that the work of the Minister is responsible, but also extremely difficult, if the Minister is working in accordance with the needs of the people and with the requirements of the Ministry. It is already such that the social sphere was not the priority of Slovenian government presidents, but at least of the finance ministers. Therefore, as Minister, we should make a special effort to ensure that the most vulnerable groups benefit from change through financial means and legal bases. Undoubtedly, much has been done in your department, but much remains to be done. The labour market and the pension system are mainly in the hands of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and the responsibility of the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and other ministers – as well as at least the economic, health, school, environmental and judicial ministers. The consequences of these systems and the established working, legal, health, environmental, educational, pension and social conditions of the population are severe. Control systems in all these areas are more than not functioning, as are the organisation and procedures of the social work centres. In view of one of the discussions, let me mention that Desus is firmly opposed to political recruitment in professional places. All professional and legal provisions must also be respected in our view in the search and decision-making of the staff. The country produces a lot of penetrating workers without basic human rights, a lot of wage workers who cannot survive, young people without an existential future in our country, who are therefore leaving Slovenia, and a lot of elderly people with pensions that do not reach the poverty threshold. At age, people are plunged into poverty, and the ministry, according to the White Paper of the Pension System, has no vision of how this could change in the future. Likewise, the Law on Personal Assistance and Long - Term Care have not yet reached the National Assembly, making them most vulnerable to severe human, social, and health problems. As too often neglected, the discriminated and overheard crowd of young people are often neglected, discriminated against, and too many older ones. In doing so, it undertakes Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under which Slovenia is a legal and social state, and Article 66 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the State creates employment and employment opportunities and provides its citizens with urgent legal protection. The binding provisions to be applied by the State are also found in the General Declaration on Human Rights and in the European Social Charter. Despite all these commitments, people are exposed to exploitation in the context of penal work, unemployment and even homelessness. They are robbed of fundamental human rights and dignity. Slovenia takes first place after the share of temporary employment among young people and in the highest level after part-time employment. Instead of ensuring labour and legal security, the State allows the reckless exploitation of employees. Families are placed and displaced, which is clearly accepted as normal, even though it is a roof over the head between fundamental human rights. I have already mentioned that not all go to the rave of the period of your ministry, but also your previous work in this ministry and your many predecessors, the ministers of this and other departments of this and other governments and the presidents of governments of various political options, which have also given priority to elites and capital over the needs of people. Clearly, past mistakes cannot be resolved overnight, but the problem is that the repairs are going very slowly or not at all. Allow me to remind today's debate that the social security system of the population is increasingly dependent on the activities of the Red Cross, Karitas, charities and charitable people, which are intended to provide for the hungry, bare and naked citizens who have been deprived of human dignity by the country. People — especially after years of work — earn more than charity. Madam Minister, people have the right to maintain their human dignity and the establishment of a system of charity is not an appropriate substitute for the country's social policy. In 2015, 287 thousand people lived below the poverty threshold and 385 thousand people were socially excluded and 116 thousand were seriously deprived. A little less than a year ago, but worrying about a small nation like Slovenia. The government and ministers should work more actively to enable everyone to live with dignity, to provide young individuals and families with housing, work and the future, to the elderly with health and social security, and to enable everyone to contribute to the development of our society. Regrettably, governments often try to give even more money to the wealthy — either through the tax system or through wage increases, as was the case with Fides in the last case. Your Honor! With the White Paper on pension reform, you are not yet responding to the challenges of a long-lived society, as you anticipate further reductions in the ratio between the average pension and the average wage. Slovenia is also among the rare wealth countries, which has not prepared for the retirement of the so-called "baby-boom" generation by creating additional funds for the elderly or otherwise. The task of the State is to set up social state mechanisms with its institutions, laws and other regulations to prevent poverty and social exclusion and to ensure that children, disabled persons, older persons and those unable to take care of themselves and those who are able to work to ensure decent survival through work. This is not yet guaranteed by our country. Dear Madam Secretary! You'll survive today's interpolation. As a positive consequence of interpolation, let us take some solutions that will already be adopted by the Government in the form of a family code due to interpolation. May today's trust of coalition partners be an incentive for you to resolve or at least lay the groundwork for solving the most pressing outstanding tasks in your ministerial department by the end of your term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	There's a magic word. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I must say that I am saddened by the fact that today we are discussing concrete content again in the context of the interpretation against the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak. There is no way I can go beyond the fact that today's debate should not even come to fruition. Ministries and competent authorities must work in accordance with the rule of law and protect the most vulnerable groups, in this particular case these two Korean boys. In this case, it is the fate of children, difficult family tragedy. The case is still not closed, and the opening of specific matters in the National Assembly seems unacceptable to me. I don't know if we even know here how these two boys are going to feel when they're marked on their way of life. They will always be exposed to both the media and individuals. Is that what we want? Especially because media pressures can be so severe and the question is whether children will be able to cope with all the difficulties in their lives and stand up for themselves. Therefore, in a particular case, I cannot and particularly do not want to talk, and the court must decide on behalf of the rule of law. However, in order to avoid what has happened, it is important that a family code be adopted, which is currently being considered in the Government, with which all the powers to decide whether to interfere with family care, adoption, abduction of children, placement in institutions will be transferred to the courts. Of course, it will also be necessary to organise courts or the judicial network appropriately and to amend another law — the Law on Justice and Unjust Procedure — which will define the specificities of family disputes. The news provided by the code also refers to whether parents will be able to say in advance where they would like the child to remain in the event of their death or the prolonged inability to carry out parental care. Of course, in this case it is an expression of will and not of automation. The new proposal of the Code also stipulates that old parents and other relatives would not adopt their grandchildren, but would be given parental care if they met the conditions, which would not have had a negative impact on both family relationships and children's property interests. A number of changes also apply to marriage. However, much of the code is based on the 2012 text, which was rejected in the referendum. In this specific code, however, two key issues are excluded – dealing with the rights of same-sex communities and the prohibition of corporal punishment of children, which is regulated by another law. It is important that we focus on solutions that are important for our country. And if we are talking today about interpolation, it is important what the Minister has already done and what the Minister will do by the end of her term to make it better for citizens and citizens in the future. The fact that the number of unemployed has been declining in recent years is also crucial. In November 2016, 96 thousand 843 unemployed persons were registered in Slovenia, which is 10 thousand 569 or almost 10% less than last November. Interannual comparisons show the continuation and even promotion of the decline in the number of registered job seekers; however, it is true that these fluctuations are recorded at seasonal work as well. Active employment policy measures have also improved since the beginning of the economic crisis. This year, 17,000 people will be involved in the measures, an increase of several thousand is planned in the coming years. These measures achieve a reduction in the unemployment rate and the effects are reflected at local level, in non-governmental organisations and in the wider community. But transitions to regular employment are all the more important. Training at the workplace involving more than 14,000 people should also be touched. According to recent findings, a large proportion of these included also kept jobs. It is also true that Slovenia still belongs to the European Union countries with an average risk of poverty and social exclusion. The number of people increased; before the crisis in 2008, there were 339,000 of them and 410 thousand in 2014. However, it is important that the number has not increased in the last two years since the Minister has been on the field. As a result, however, social work centres have, on the one hand, been subject to additional labour burdens by introducing the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. Five rights were decided before this law was passed, and today it is decided on 13 rights. On the other hand, there is an increase in the need to offer professional assistance to different user groups. In doing so, it is noted that the centres for social work are overloaded, they are doing largely administrative and administrative work, which I do not think is part of this part. It is therefore so important that social work centres are reorganised – in particular in the direction of simplifying administrative procedures, decommissioning of professional workers at social work centres with administrative procedures, spending more time carrying out field professional tasks, rationalising and increasing efficiency and establishing common services. It is crucial, once again, that professional workers at social work centres perform professionally, more on the ground and not administratively in offices, away from the real world. Moreover, I cannot help but overlook the fact that we have in the process of addressing the amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, which proposes the removal of the Institute of the depriving and burdening of property in the case of new beneficiaries of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance. As we know, there is a large proportion of ownership dwellings in Slovenia, with which individuals and families solve their housing issue. Responsibilities to real estate are high, especially in the case of the elderly, in terms of the principle of providing basic conditions for survival. This is why a 120-thousand-thousand-thousand-threshold limit is proposed. So if a person has an apartment worth not more than €120,000, he is entitled to social assistance or to a protective allowance that will not have to be returned, as it has now been. We must also be aware that the expectations of citizens and citizens are high. Employees want decent wages to support themselves and their families. Pensioners want decent pensions, so it is also crucial to consider raising the minimum basic full-time pension. We can't forget young people, either. Young people need to be provided with employment and family creation. All of this is a long run, so it is vital that we listen to the most vulnerable groups of people and give them what they deserve. Minister, I want you to achieve as many of your objectives as possible on the way ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	Representative of the proposer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, chairman. I would really like to ask that we stick to the topic that we have today on the agenda, and this is the Minister's interpretation of the illegal abduction of two children and the Supreme Court's decision to find human rights violations. All we've heard in the last two performances is what it's supposed to be to be different and how great and nice everything is. The way everything is great and fine in the field of social policy is best known by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so that there is no need to explain it. Everyone has some experience, either on his own or in a close family, so he understands it very well, but today we are here to clear up the irregularities that are exposed to interpretation itself. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to remind all future debaters of this and to really stick to the agenda. I would like to ask the Minister again to finally answer the questions that have already been asked here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I will slowly begin to believe that our interpretations are in fact good for SD Desus, otherwise the SMC does not, because you have the opportunity to explain your programmes, and that while instead of talking about interpretation, talk about what the ministry will do and what the minister will do. Once again, as was the case with the other interpolations, the interpolation is to work back, so we are reviewing the work, two and a half years' work of this mandate and not talking about what will happen next. As we continue to listen, “we will, we will, and we will be in the future”, this is not the topic of interpolation, as colleague Susanna said. So I would say, in this place, that our interpretations are more than obviously encouraging the work of ministries, because today the family code will also be in the government when we intertwined the Minister of Health, and health reform or changes have started somehow to be written – otherwise the starting point. So our interpretations are definitely good for you to represent programs and to start working. As for the interpretation itself; on June 14th, before the first intervention of the Prime Minister, I asked whether she thought that in the case of the Korean boys Mrs Anja Kopač Dark was any responsible, subjective, objective. And the Prime Minister of the Government then replied that Minister Dr Mrakov was objectively responsible in the case of the Korean boys, but in his view, the objective responsibility does not reach that intensity which would justify any action in the sense that the President of the Government would demand its resolution. So, while the Supreme Court has not yet ruled, the President of the Government has already said that the Minister is objectively responsible, but that objective responsibility does not reach this level in order to call for her to resign. Today, after the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia announced its judgment on the case of the Korean boys on 19 October and decided that the abduction of the boys was illegal and that the constitutional rights of the aged parents or the old mother were violated, thereby finalizing the illegality of taking the grandchildren away from the old parents and interfering with the constitutional rights of the family community, the President of the Government is literally silent, the Minister is silent and is talking about not feeling responsible. So that this objective responsibility, in spite of the judgment, judges the Supreme Court, which finds irregularities or confirms irregularities and also acts in human rights, is still not high enough for the Minister to give up in order to feel at least responsible. Under Article 114 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister is responsible for the work of his ministry and the question here is why do we have ministers if they are not responsible for anything? They are not responsible for the irregularity at social work centres, that the social inspection did not detect any irregularities, while the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court find irregularities. So, what responsibility does the minister have, if the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in its competence are social work centres, and the social inspection is not responsible? So, then, what is the minister – in this case Dr. Mrakov’s Digger – even responsible? Then it's for nothing. Then no responsibility shall be taken, either at the Ministry or elsewhere. Besides, it's not the only ministry, but apparently it is. Once again, everyone who advocates the Minister in your actions is essentially talking about what she has done in some other areas or will do, and in the field of the Korean boys, you are avoiding this area. Therefore, it must be said that the grandson was taken suddenly and secretly, without the knowledge of the old parents, that the old parents received a message that the children were given into foster care or that they would be taken away, that the murderer of the mother’s children — that is, their father — was not deprived of the parental right or the withdrawal procedure was not initiated by CSD Velenje, that CSD Slovenj Gradec was unlawfully considering the application for the care of the old parents because it was not sent to the competent ministry. And that's where we'd stop. If the Minister didn't know that on April 6, 2016, no one would convince me. That the Minister did not know that she did not decide what she was supposed to do, that is, the role that the old mother addressed to CSD Slovenj Gradec and that the Director should, after giving his opinion and so on, refer this to the Ministry in deciding that the Minister did not know at the time, no one would convince me of this. And if someone had used up the pressure of old parents and wanted to wash things in public, it was the minister. Because the Minister was the first to go before the cameras on April 6th and advocated the irregularities of CSD Slovenj Gradec, the irregularities of CSD Velenje, and today this matter is essentially denied, although both Mr Šumečnik and the Director of CSD Velenje have resigned. So the two who were doing the wrong thing, which means they didn't act properly, resigned. But the minister doesn't feel responsible, even though they're both institutions, institutions under hers, I'll say, leadership. In your composition, Minister, they're social work centers. The following thing; CSD Velenje did not create reasonable grounds for not assigning a child to an old parent. According to CSD Velenje, for the removal of grandchildren from the care of old parents, the elderly parents discontinued their participation in the establishment of the foster family, although the only argument should be the child's benefit and not how parents really understand the decision of CSD Velenje. Furthermore, the child has not been given a guardian who should normally be a relative of the child. CSD Velenje led the process voluntarily and enforced decisions for old parents and did not inform them of the legal consequences of decisions and statements and so on. So more irregularities, which I reiterate, have not been identified by the social inspection. Then how do you explain it, Minister? However, the Supreme Court finds irregularities, confirms them by judgements, but you still stand for the fact that the social inspection under your jurisdiction worked optimally. Did you demand possible control over what the Inspector did? Perhaps you asked him for further clarification, but why did he not find out? After all, you can ask yourself how you didn't know on April 6th that CSD Slovenia Gradec didn't send the application. Did you go right in front of the cameras without even being informed about this case? Because if you have done so, it is in fact a major mistake for you to go and defend things that later in judgment turn out not to be right or even to violate human rights, to pull together at a press conference an expert who does not have all the powers or who did not have them to explain the things he has. And, Madam Minister, you cannot say that you are not responsible for this, because once again – social work centres, social inspections are under your jurisdiction. They're independent, but they're under your jurisdiction. If the minister can interfere with the appointment of members of your party to the councils of social work centres, then you should also feel responsible for what the directors of the Centre for Social Work are doing. Because just to say so, "I am not responsible for anything", then we do not need ministers, you do not take any responsibility, which is already so obvious in Slovenia with this government that it does not feel completely responsible for anything. He does not respect the Constitutional Court, nor the Supreme Court, no matters are respected, only that he is, of course, in large numbers. And when he spoke to his colleague Škoberna about the circular economy, how our interpellation is essentially an example of a circular economy, to preserve the environment The circular economy is the employment of Mr Šumečnik, it is a circular economy. [[…]] You're resigning from the Social Work Center because you're very professional about what you're about to be hired in Elektra because you're also a professional. This is the circular economy because we are in the right party or because we have the right supporters. So and now I wonder if Mr Šumečnik is now familiar with social legislation in the field of family, social, and today he is an electrical engineer or an energy expert. [[…]] It's a circular economy! Our interpretation of Pa will not say that after the last of June there is nothing new. [[…]] Yeah, it's new, and this is the Supreme Court's judgment, and that's it. And don't say what it isn't. And the Minister, in particular here, would, of course, also be a question for the President of the Government, is this objective responsibility now so high that it has reached such a level that the President of the Government asks the Minister to resign? What is the criterion in Slovenia when the Minister has to leave? What's that criterion? Neither is the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia’s judgment a criterion, which means that a judgment establishing a violation of human rights is not a criterion. It is not a criterion for a decision of the Constitutional Court. In Slovenia, there is no measure in this government for a minister to take responsibility. No one in Slovenia assumes responsibility by government services and anywhere else. They're protecting each other. And on April 6, 2016, the minister came, I will say, without head to that press conference and protected, politically protected the director of CSD Slovenia Gradec and CSD Velenje and anyone else. Today, these cases are essentially confirmed by the courts, and the minister says that nothing has happened, nothing that I feel responsible for. So, of course, there will be another question for the President of the Government, perhaps addressed in writing or orally, which is the criterion for the optimal responsibility that the Minister must leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, now after four hours of discussion, Mr President, we have come into a situation where we face the organ's silence again. In fact, the one who is intertwined, the one who should answer the obvious in a reasoned and professional way — with evidence, with conduct and so on — does not answer. And I ask you kindly now that you have taken over the session again to warn the Minister that he will speak at last. The silence of the body is not typical of parliamentary practice, except in the mandate of the Government of Mir Cerar. Ministers don't talk. If anything, they will read what their experts bring them, but to answer the specific questions raised in this debate they do not answer. This is like in certain special forms of companies when it says “Director”, but there is a footnote “not responsible”. And here we have the Minister of Labour with a name and probably a delivery, "not responsible". Please make sure that we have some answers after four hours, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	The government is present in the proper manner in the process itself, and that is all that can be answered at this point. The text is by Dr Vinko Gorenak, to be prepared by Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, President. Now I have to adjust my performance to what you just said. This, Mr President, what you say applies to this mandate. What can I do? Can I? Okay. What you just said applies to this mandate. And this incompetent government is considered to be the incompetent leadership of this National Assembly. In the past, the President, it wasn't like that. It wasn't like that. That's what I'm talking about, competently, because I was sitting there as a minister at the interpretation, and there was someone else sitting in your chair, Mr. Presecnik, who was in charge of the meeting. The current minister – because of what you do and allow, I have to expose it in front of the Slovenian public – sits there in her chair, reminds me about a student who has to be in class because there will be no conditions for exams, or writes yours or love letters. That's what the secretary does. It's tweeting and cutting. Among other things, she wrote: “The definition of a family is broader, the child is the one who creates the family.” Of course, according to the system, two dads and a kid, it's a family. Or two moms, and there's a family if she's still a kid. Propaganda leads, instead of doing what I did, for example, when I was sitting in those chairs there defending myself in the form of interpretation, there was a general sitting across from me with a large army called Mr Möderndorfer. President, there was practically no member of Parliament to answer him immediately. But when I began to run out of time, of course I was forced to – Mr Jurša will remember – somehow combine two, three acts of Members and then reply. And we're now 13.14, so we've been talking about this interpretation since nine o'clock in the morning, and the minister's been snarling at you. Minister, if you're capable, if you're competent, because you say you are, and your Prime Minister probably thinks so, because otherwise he wouldn't put you there, then start talking. Start answering. In particular, I would like to stress once again that there was no Member who would not have replied to it, and that is immediately. You, too, are the answer of the President of the National Assembly to Mr Tank's question. You see what it is: whether the government is incompetent, which I think it is, or whether it is waiting here to pass the time for the exam to be met if I return the story to the lives of the students. Let's take practical examples. When signatures were lost on the relationship between the National Assembly and the Ministry of the Interior in 2012 – by the way, today all the procedures of all the authorities, including the police and the prosecution have been completed and there is no blame at the level of the Ministry of Interior, so we know – I called the President of the Government and said, “President, this has happened and if you consider that the obstacle is too great, you can immediately say that you accepted my resignation”. And I sent him – not a resignation, but an offer of relief, as they say, well, I apologize – I offered him a resignation; I did not give up, I offered him a resignation. Why? Because the government has to continue to work because the government has to run this country responsible. And his answer was, "If I find the slightest fault on your part or on your part subordinated, I will also accept the resignation." That's responsible. What are you doing? Stick to the chair, like you and SuperCleber got stuck up, you can't get up yet, or how. If you have a clear conscience, come to the petition commission. No, you're not there. Run away from the truth. The secretary of state is no longer coming. If you have a clear conscience, come in front of the camera and tell me! But if you don't, you're looking at the ground. Yeah, well, let's get the audience to think about it. When you talk about how impossible it is to go down, I've already told you how independent they are, they're independent blah blah blah blah. In 2003, the Constitutional Court responded to this dilemma. At that time, the Director-General of Police and the Minister argued because the Director-General of Police refused to give certain information to the Minister. It was decided by the Constitutional Court. And if I take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the Group of Extremely Left Constitutional Lawyers, I can tell you this: you are entitled to every data, to every data, you cannot refer to the fact that they are both professional and so on and so forth, but you are obliged to act. Even in the case of the police, when you well know that this is a much more sensitive personal data when it comes to wiretaps when it comes to other hidden investigative measures, the situation is clear after that decision by the Constitutional Court and according to that expert opinion – the Minister has the right to every data, unless the law restricts it. And then we narrowed it down to one case. You don't have those limitations down there, so don't make excuses, don't run from reality, and – I don't know what to say – don't lie that you don't have a chance. You have every opportunity to reach out. Of course, you can't make decisions, but you have other options for intervention. When we had a meeting - I don't know which one it was - or whether it was the Commission for Petitions or the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs - your State Secretary said something like this: "I can't talk about personal data, I can't talk about a matter concerning Korean boys, I can't talk about it, but you know, it's confidential data, it can hurt children..." and so on. On my proposal, we closed the meeting to the public, moved to that little room up there, and the Secretary of State resumed. When we asked her, "now tell me what those reasons were for this withdrawal of the child" she had nothing to say. So she referred to some confidentiality, but when technical conditions were established to protect this confidentiality, it was silent. But it was silent, because some of you were Members, and did not say anything. And one more thing, Madam Secretary. When he fell down from a ceiling of 5 or 6 square metres in a canteen, and the Austrian car was damaged, I don't think he was a citizen, Minister Žerjav offered to resign. What does Minister Žerjav have to do with five square metres? How guilty was he? He had an objective sense of responsibility. It was the government of Janez Janša. Today, when you have the Supreme Court’s judgment, the Supreme Court’s judgment that it was a violation of constitutional rights committed by your subordinates, and you — half a kilo of Supercleber — are in the chair. Instead of offering to resign and leave. You see, these are the criteria. When the train leaves Paris, the Minister of Transport offers to resign and also leaves. Everything is different in Slovenia. In short, let me finish. Minister, you were appointed to this position why? Because you are a member of a political party and because you are a political party in the government, you have received this position. He sailed you through the water, by default, because you're an important member of a political party. That's the way it is in all governments. But Madam Minister, behind each of these Members there are some 100 or several thousand – up to 6111 in the case of Janez Janša – votes of voters. You don't think you're obliged to respect the electorate and answer and not sit in a chair. Ask your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs has equal opportunities for Dr. Anja Kopač Dark. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	I see it's a desire to speak, even though you usually tell me I talk too much. But the way it usually is, it's never good enough, or you do it anyway. As far as the explanations you are asking are concerned, it must be said that you have 5 hours of time available. I could've had two hours, but I decided an hour. I explained for 30 minutes in the introduction what seemed necessary to me to clarify, and briefly it was necessary to tell citizens and citizens that a comprehensive response to all the indications in the interpretation was given in a written reply on 20 pages: all the explanations concerning the seizure, jurisdiction, consideration of what the Minister's powers to work are, what are public, independent social protection institutions. And, of course, if you don't want this to be, in a way, primarily for viewers and viewers, this encounter today, you have all my answers in this written work. Now, perhaps as just one of the most obvious cases of last-minute deception; perhaps you would not have had 10 hours to answer all this. Earlier in June, Mr Vinko Gorenak had already operated on this story on the Commission. The decision of the Constitutional Court in the procedure for the examination of the initiative of Police Director-General Mark Pogorelc at its meeting on 22 November 2011 refers to the explanations that the Minister of Police should be given. And here it is very clear — just as Mr Vinko Gorenak says — that according to Article 16 of the Rules, which empowers employees of the Ministry of the Interior to exercise control over the performance of police duties, inter alia, to request data from police records and to request access to documents obtained by the police in the performance of their duties. But please, the police are not social workers. Social work centres are independent public welfare institutions. But this is the most convincing manipulation. The secretary is responsible, the minister must. The fact is, the point of this interpretation is that it seems that even after so many hours, even after all the written understanding of what the minister's competence is, it is still very different. As for the Supreme Court’s judgment, I said in the introduction that she was talking about interfering with the family community of grandparents and that she was unequivocal and that we would certainly respect her. It is not, though, that although the Supreme Court could decide that this was clearly demonstrated to be the child’s benefit, it also decided that the children should return to their parents immediately. However, this has not been done because an in-depth professional procedure is needed to evaluate the child’s benefit and they run ahead of the competent institutions. And until the proceedings are completed, the comment is regrettably, I apologize, political manipulation. And if you want me to explain again, as was the last time, sixteen hours — today eleven hours — in my two hours, I explain the same things. As Minister above all, it seems to me whether you're trying to appear as if I don't feel responsible, that I'm hardhearted, that I don't care. These are grave deceptions, these are ugly lies. The fact is that the adoption of the family code was also very important in the Ministry's work plan, and I am very pleased to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has today adopted a family code that will be the story that we are talking about today or is the subject of it – this would have been resolved for many years. But still, after 1976, we are looking forward to a new comprehensive reform of family law. Unfortunately, today I cannot represent it in the government because I am here for interpretation again by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The basic objective of the new Family Code is to improve the situation of children in family relationships and to ensure that the principle of protecting the benefit of the child is implemented more effectively, to improve the legal security of citizens in the area of decision-making in marital and family disputes, and to simplify the decision-making procedures on child protection measures and to improve the resolution of matters in the family field, which is particularly important when deciding on measures to protect the benefit of children, as over-time procedures for children have irreparable negative consequences on their further development. The definition of a family according to the current legislation is new in the family code, understanding is wider – the family is a living community of a child with both parents or with another adult, if it cares for the child and has responsibilities and rights to the child. So the child is the one who makes the family. The expression parental right is replaced by the expression parental care, since on the one hand it is the obligation of parents to children, and on the other hand it is also the responsibility of potential adoptive parents, who are not parents, who are parents. At the same time, the expression of concern better denotes the whole rights and obligations in relation to parents and children. We are also amending the provision on the common upbringing and protection of children. We allow the Court to decide on the common upbringing and protection of children if it considers it to be in the best interests of the child, even if the parents fail to reach agreement or agreement. The news is also a further expression of parental will, which gives parents the opportunity to express in advance the willingness to care for their children if they are unable to care for them. The Court shall take into account the parents' will if this is not contrary to the benefit of the child. One of the topics highlighted in the public debate was the possibility of adopting grandchildren who no longer have living parents. In doing so, many highlighted a number of possible negative consequences of such adoption for the child. In particular, they cited the impact on the possibility of inheritance and other rights of the deceased parents and the issue of the child’s identity, since one of the parents’ adoptions would take the child out of the family after another parent. We have found a solution that preserves the benefits of adoption in terms of ensuring lasting care for the child and avoids negative consequences. For a child who is no longer a living parent, the court may grant parental care to a relative who meets the conditions for adoption and who is willing to take full care of the child. Such parental care could only be taken away from a relative in the same way and on the same basis as parental care can be taken away from a parent. One fundamental novelty in view of today's regulation is that the draft Code of Competence to decide on measures to protect the benefit of the child is transferred from the social work centres to the courts. The courts will therefore decide on provisional orders and measures of a more permanent nature. The Court will decide on fostering and care, and on emergency measures where the child is so threatened that he can no longer stay in the home family, but will still be decided by the social work centres, but such a measure will last for a maximum of six days. The transfer to court will take place gradually. The Ministry of Justice must also provide him with a legal basis in addition to the staffing conditions. The transmission will be completed with 1. 1. 2019. It's a family code on marriage. The principle of equality between spouses, the rights and duties of spouses, and the importance of the marriage that is in the family’s design, is preserved. Future spouses are given a number of possible ways to enter into a marriage; mayors, as individuals enjoying a special reputation in society, are given legal powers to enter into marriages, following the frequent wishes of spouses. The news is that the spouses can freely agree on their contractual property regime, but they can remain passive and their property regime is judged by the provisions of the so-called legal property regime as of now - in one word, the possibility of matrimonial contracts is introduced. The provisions relating to the consensual divorce of the marriage and the divorce of the spouses and the relationship between the divorced spouses – the obligation to maintain the divorced spouse – are maintained. However, the news is foreseen in cases where the spouses do not have common minors and if they agree on the most important relationships — property, housing — the marriage can be dissolved before the notary in the form of a notary document. Mediation in family matters is also among the novelties of the family code. This may be done before, during and after the proceedings, and on all family-related issues. Mediation should be carried out by centres for social work and courts, but also by other natural or legal persons. In the family code adopted today by the Government, we also introduce programmes to support the family and the status of societies in the field of family policy. Family support programmes are aimed at preparing for parenthood, promoting positive parenting and strengthening parental competences, improving communication and family relations, creative and active leisure activities for children and families, and making family and professional life easier to coordinate. The programmes in support of the family shall be partially or fully financed on the basis of calls for a maximum period of five years. We are also laying the groundwork for the adoption of a resolution on family policy, which will be a fundamental strategic rule in the field of family and will have to be drawn up by the Government every ten years; as we know, the last resolution in this area was adopted in 1993. In order to strengthen the importance of the family area and to improve cross-cutting cooperation, we also propose the establishment of a Council for Children and Family at the level of the Government, which will monitor measures in the field of family policy and make appropriate recommendations to the Government. I believe that the responsibility of the Minister is primarily of a systemic nature – the preparation of the necessary legal acts and the care of the system as a whole. The specific case should be decided by the courts and those competent to decide what the child’s benefit is. No, I don't feel myself, not in my expertise or in my personal capacity, so I can judge what the child's benefit is. And Mr. Gorenak, if you feel it, okay. I'm just afraid you're going to be Minister of Labour for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	Replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much. President, there are strange things happening in this reference. There, once at a time of severe summer heat, Mr Kopmajer spoke there about a law, if you remember, which was not on the agenda at all, but was only two days later. The heat does its thing, I get it. Now there's no heat, unless the minister has the fever. That's what I believe can be done. Minister, we have an interpellation, not a family code. So, we're talking about interpolation, not family code. That's what the government's already accepted, and we're just gonna get it, or whatever. But what is also a substantive part of the replica, look; if you think that the organ in the body is a fichefiret to any public institution in terms of the responsibility of the minister, you are wrong. The body in the State is established in accordance with legislation in those areas which it considers to be the most important areas, usually very large areas and regulated by law. The military, the police, the financial administration and so on, shut down and so on and so on. And the Minister's relationship to the authorities in the compound is usually narrower. Why? Because the organs are made up of their superiors. So that your objective responsibility in the sense of what you do is greater than that of the Minister of Interior or Defence or so on in terms of the relationship to the authorities in the composition. But you say it, you talk and you talk and it's over. I don't know how much longer I have. Remind me, President, I won't be too long. But look, when you talk about it, let the authorities decide. Yes, please. The authorities have decided that someone must go into custody, and that's the one who got the most votes. Yeah, that's what the authorities decided. The authorities have decided to lose someone's mandate in the State Council. I'm talking about Kangler. Then the authorities decided it wasn't his fault, but who gave him his mandate back? Nobody. Well, we have to get back to you first. And I asked you then why you decided to do so. Yes, the profession. What kind of profession? You're an expert too! You're teaching these classes in college. Then tell us why such a professional decision has been made. And in the closed session, you don't want to tell me why this decision was made. But you see, that's the problem with the behavior of ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik. A, the candidate has the advantage. Okay. A representative of the proposer, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka, and then it will be up to those I have listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I must say, Your Honor, what you did a little while ago is an abuse of interpretation. You were saying something completely different, which is not the point of today’s agenda. We'll talk about the family code in this house, but this is the second time he gets to the National Assembly. So far, it's not likely that he's only been admitted to the government. So you're going to have a presentation about this and this, but once again, unfortunately not today. And I'm sorry that your precious minutes prefer to use you for these purposes instead of actually answering the questions that have been asked here many times. And now I'm going to go to the topic of today's interpolation, because I think we've already gone a little too far from the point of the agenda. We'll do it in a row. After this tragic event, the old mother, although under the Act on the implementation of fostering activities, applied for foster care at the competent centre for social work, is locally competent, this is the case with Slovenj Gradec. The application was complete on 27 January, which means that the legal deadlines began to run. It is the hands in which this role must be decided. This deadline is 60 days. It shall expire on 27 March 2016. And what was going on? This role should be decided by the Ministry, whether it favours or rejects the application, of course in the light of the findings of the Centre of the Child, as set out in the Act on the implementation of the fostering activity. This means social work centres Slovenj Gradec. Well, in this case, we have two centers. But what happened? That didn't happen. Even before the application was legally decided, the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec, which means the centre for social work, where the children belonged, placed the child in an unknown foster family. This was done in an extremely inappropriate way — finally confirmed by the guardian — in a way that led them out of kindergarten. Normally you could have made that choice, but then, if it were, I don't know, the life of the children was at stake. In this case, we absolutely cannot talk about these things. Dear Minister, I'm really interested in you. You were made aware of this by your grandmother on March 25th. When considering the first interpolation, you said that you reacted immediately. How did you react? You wanted to cover everything up very quickly. You requested extraordinary supervision of the social inspection, which has examined only the report of the Centre and on this basis said “no irregularity here”. You trusted him blindly. You called a press conference, you're the one who put this case under public scrutiny first or how to say you went public with this case, not the Slovenian Democratic Party. With you at the press conference was Director of Social Inspection, then Director of the Centre for Social Work Velenje and Prof. Gabi Čačinovic Vogrinčič. And what was found later? That this expert was unjustifiably familiar with personal data. That she had no legal basis at all for getting to know her personal data between April 4th and April 11th or April 6th and April 11th, a few days. Of course, the information officer gave this further as a relief, but it was said that it was only made known orally. But what further explains this? This further explains only that more than obviously this press conference was convened solely to cover up certain irregularities that took place both at the Centre for Social Work of Slovenia Gradec and at the Centre for Social Work of Velenje. And you wanted to put all things under the rug very quickly. Of course, then you corrected some mistakes for a while. On 11 April, the Ministry issued a decision, of course after a statutory deadline of 60 days. That was a proven irregularity. It was first proved by the Administrative Court and also confirmed by the Supreme Court on 19 October. True, the Director of the Centre for Social Work Velenje and the Director of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec have resigned, but the Director of Social Inspection is still here. Dear Minister, you are still in this place. The President of the Government, who thus stressed the high legal standards that he is, not least, a constitutional lawyer – here we know that it was a violation of human rights – did not grapple. I have to say, there are very different criteria when someone stays as an official in some place in this government and when someone has to leave. Someone has to leave already if it is considered that he will not comply with the Government's decision, but someone is violating human rights, as demonstrated by the Supreme Court's decision, and remains a minister. Someone leaves because of the pâté, another has been proven wrong and remains a minister. Truly, we find this difficult to understand and truly unacceptable. And that is why we, as the opposition, are obliged to point out this and you as Members are obliged to vote in a way that eliminates such irregularities. I believe everyone knows what that means. Not to mention other things — about the seizure or failure of parental rights to a man who could not carry out them — he could not because he was in custody. Again, the Centre for Social Work did not give an initiative — or what to say — to the court on the granting of custody. How can you leave your child with your parents for three months on one side, and then obviously, I don't know, it would be against the child's right to be with them? Yes, not more than apparently if they were with their parents for three months and received their love. As far as social inspection is concerned. Dear Minister, the body in your ministry is, of course, under the Labour Inspectorate. How do you advocate the work of a social inspectorate? Do you still believe blindly? How do you defend yourself after all the proven irregularities? What role do you see in this social inspection in the future? Maybe you'd better tell me what you're going to do in the future so there won't be any more anomalies like this? The inspection, the only one you have that can keep an eye on your completely independent decisions of the Centre for Social Work, obviously doesn't work. What are you gonna do? Maybe we should talk about it a little bit more. Because, then, it can happen to us that the centres for social work will begin to operate entirely in their interest, because they do not have any control. Because this surveillance obviously doesn't work. Proven not working, the Administrative Court found it, the Supreme Court found it. There have been irregularities in procedures not identified by the social inspection. Really, Minister, I would really like you to give us the answers to these questions, that's the key, these are the key mistakes. And that's why it's up to you to make sure it doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Mr Uroš Prikl finally has the floor. Prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mrs Irena Grošelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	Finally, President, I thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In principle, I did not intend to advertise, even though I applied for the debate, which is simply because my basic opinion or basic position is that, in such specific cases, it is not appropriate for me to discuss this in the State Assembly at this point, under the company of interpretation of the Minister’s work. However, I came forward for the reason that I was mentioned in one of the previous discussions or that my statement on what I was thinking about this particular case that we are dealing with here today was cited. I said that I "appreciate the Supreme Court's decision to be very unpleasant, especially because high-policy spears break in the fate of children", I say now. I'm truly sorry and I feel sorry for you, and it seems inappropriate to me that I'm actually just waiting for the names and names of these kids and the old parents, and then we've come really across every border. Therefore, once again, I say that I stand for this statement because I really do not think it appropriate. Perhaps the expression of high policy Yes, high policy in the sense that we are talking about specific cases in the National Assembly and we are trying to find some solutions here. [[…]] I also said that "the Minister is the first of the same in the field of social and family policy which is responsible for the smooth functioning of the system". That's what I'm behind, and that's exactly what I'm holding. “The case of the Korean boys is certainly one of the deviations in this system, which needs to be re-examined and done on a systematic basis, so that such stories will no longer occur.” Of course, it is necessary to do so, and we expected the Minister to come before us and also expect us to adopt such or other regulations at a systemic level — that is, simply in proposing regulations, laws — and also to put us in the face of the fact that we are also adopting such or other rules. And what's happened lately? This happened – let me get out of the constellation of the lower part of today’s interpolation – and in the meantime we accepted the committee already in the National Assembly, and on Monday we will soften the Law on Social Security Benefits, as of Monday we will soften the ZUJF in the field of student lunches. She told you earlier that he was admitted to the government today. I must say that coalition Members and Members have also introduced us to the family code, where I consider it to be one of the main positive news that I believe will be properly addressed, including the so-called extended parental care. If we had it before, so we don't have it yet, but with the adoption of the family code we will have it, this story probably wouldn't have happened. The purpose or desire is also to get to the reorganisation as quickly as possible, long-awaited – not for the duration of the mandate, not for the Magak, not for the Svetlik, but for the undue longer; I have little of this chronological memory, I tell you that we are talking about it for at least 15 years – that is, the reorganisation of social work centres. Last but not least, I expect some news in the area of the Social Protection Act as well. Last but not least, I want more resources, more options, more scholarships for students and students, and probably more. Yes, of course – specific objectives and measures in the area of APZ, i.e. active employment policies, where we will be even more because it is too small to reduce the number of employees by a couple of ten thousand, and we expect that, of course, from the Minister. [[…]] If I said here: "the minister does what, there is no deviation, everything is b. p., everything is perfect," of course I would lie. But I argue, as Jurša said when he represented the position of the delegation – surely not Anja Kopač Dark is the weakest member of this government, but it is true that in my taste – not because I have worked in this ministry for ten years, but because I am now leading the Labour Committee in this National Assembly – I feel that this is the hardest ministry. I rightly assess this because, in fact, this ministry has been dealing with a human being, with people since birth. It's hard to say before you were born. But I'm sure from birth to death, even after death. You know what I'm thinking. Of course, that's not an excuse. Now for the other part that I wanted to say. I really think that on specific occasions we can't talk here, not least when we've got the interpolation and the answers, all those personal data, I don't know what it's called, darkened, cut with black, and I'm sure that's the right thing to do. Besides, I think now that we're talking about Korean boys, we're doing a lot of damage, potential damage. I'm not talking here about abuse. But I am very close to this point of view that there can be too much exposure and in the final stage to stigmatization of both children, that is, boys, like old parents, broader families and so on. And I am in the end, my respectable colleagues, my respected colleagues, I really do want these procedures to be carried out at professional level, so that they can conclude as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible, the final decisions come to fruition. Above all, I want these decisions to be – we know where they must be made, we know or we should know who should take them, and certainly not the daily policy – for the first time, for the second time and for the last time for the benefit of children. I repeat, I would like these decisions to be made so that the decision-makers are not under any pressure to be a child for the first time, for the second time and for the last time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister, the proponents, in particular the proponent! Today, Suzanne, you're going to fix your statistics in Parlameter, so your vocabulary will increase, you'll have a lot of spoken words, but the Koroan boys will just stay where they are. That's the problem. And tomorrow, the Parliament will consider the statistics of your performances to be good. I'm not dealing with the definition of interpolation. For many years I have been a Member, I know that interpellation is a tool of the opposition, I know that it is not an important content, the words are important, the appearances are important, the television staff are important and it is important to impress the public that everything is wrong in this country. And so as far as that's concerned, it sucks. However, the problem is when we talk about interpretation, but there is little problem with this content. Now I, as a parrot here, am going to repeat that we are just taking advantage of this tragedy, but the real tragedy is that politics now bets itself, complains and more could be mentioned. This, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely not good. I think that if these two boys happen to be close to television and accidentally turn on television – I hope they are watching something better – the discussions we have today will certainly sit on the soul and be accompanied by this soul for the rest of their lives, not just by the tragedy that has happened in their family. And I'll tell you one thing. Neither the family code nor any code will restore the mother to these two children, nor will it restore any dignity and any happy childhood to these two children. It's all nice and right, laws to write, but we still interpret marriages in some way, and people are actually working or making mistakes or not. Our ministers are making themselves clear today, as I understand it, this interpellation. The main obvious is that she was at a press conference that day and she responded to, I'm going to say that, to a journalistic problem or a journalistic story that was happening at the time. I am a thousand percent sure – this because of the experience I have as a politician – that if the Minister did not then respond and not be at that press conference, the defeat of the Minister would be the same as it is now, only that the content would be different. We'd talk about the shame that the minister doesn't respond to the tragedy she did and how it's possible to sit in some beautiful place and say nothing. The same would be true, ladies and gentlemen. I'm a politician too, because I'd probably do the same if I were you. But I'm just telling you, I wouldn't do stories like that that would be the basis for such a tragedy. Everything else – laws, social, second – is, ladies and gentlemen, so much room for demagogia We have heard before the United Left. [[…]] Although my client colleagues say to me, "Don't deal with the United Left, don't fight them" but what Kordish said isn't even in Venezuela. No, because you have to be a little realistic in life. If I could make a decision today and have a magic wand, I would give everyone a job and people should be paid fair and no social assistance. Yeah, except for those who can't work, and these are disabled people, people who are sick, people who can't. But look, we don't live in India, we live in an ugly world where we know that one percent of humanity has all the wealth in some way accumulated. Now there's something else about these Korean boys or this story. I'm not so disappointed if politics takes on such a story, because it's looking for political points, or whether it's going to show up here on Friday or Monday. I am more disappointed when lawyers who have nothing to do find such a story for their promotion, so that they can be on TV every day, and then they can get some other business. I'm a little scared about that. And this lawyer, who was finally even our saint, I have heard somewhere in Koroška, or even a parishioner — if you are a member of a social democracy of some value, then put in and make an effort to file 26 complaints and 45 legal remedies in this story. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have 68 interpolations on this subject here, because every time the court takes something, it's gonna be an interpolation. But these kids and this family are gonna go crazy. If it's a child's benefit, then I'm a little confused right now. Now just one big question and a big question. I do, but I have to say, because Jozeta, we've been for quite some time now, I'm not going to say that to a friend because they're going to say yes, but a very good acquaintance. [[…]] I'm sure he's one of those people who wants to do people good. Me, too. And probably everyone in this room. Let's ask one question. If the minister resigns now, you'll be happy, we'll be disappointed. Will the boys come to their old parents? Will the boy be the happiest kids in the world before Christmas? Will you? If this is to be done and if it is done to Anja to resign, I am going to ask her now, "Anja, back off". You won't have to ask her. Anja would do it right away if, for Christmas, this child, this little boy, happy, opened presents under the spruce, looked forward to the family environment. Are you going to? You won't, no. Now I have a chicken coat because I know I'll be happy and happy to have my daughter back from Portugal because we'll be nice for Christmas together, happy at home. Those poor kids, they're not gonna be little boys. Will you stay with your parents? Will you be at the foster home? It doesn't matter. These kids are marked. Now it's just a question of what label we're gonna give them. And the greatest label, I apologize, is given to them by a policy which in this tragedy is spoken over and over and over again just to get Anjo Kopač Dark out of town. Sometimes I'm sad and disappointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	Mrs Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare for Mr Franz Breznik and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, all present! This interpellation somehow builds on the apparent cases of the abduction of minors, after the Supreme Court ruled that the competent centre had reached out to the right of the midwife to family life when they had taken the child away and placed the child elsewhere before the decision on the role of the midwife in carrying out the maternity permit. From here, evidence and responsibility for disproportionate interference with human rights, suspension of duties under powers and involvement in the politicisation of centres shall be derived. In this case, however, proceedings are pending before the Administrative Court. I think that in some ways it is really a turning point to judge and discuss matters concerning minors in the public eye. These two children will be marked for life without media and political dispersion. Why are they being used for political purposes now, and we know that judicial proceedings are still ongoing and will likely provide additional answers to who he is, if he is, and why he is responsible. The decisions of the courts in this case refer to the rights of adults, not to children, but to the fundamental principle and focus of attention when the centres decide on measures to protect and benefit children. It is very likely that this case would not be discussed today and would not have arisen if the Family Code had been adopted in 2012 if it had received this code of support at the referendum. I'm afraid he didn't get it. And today we find that everything is wrong and how it should be. In the spring, we received a petition from the National Assembly for a civil initiative, which was particularly organised on the occasion of the last media case of child abduction. So already in 2012 it was an opportunity for this area to be better regulated. I myself have many years of experience in the field of social work and I am well aware of the functioning of these services in an organisational and substantive sense, and I am convinced that fundamental changes are needed. For these reasons, I will continue to pay even more attention to the process of reorganisation of centres and family legislation. The adoption of the family code is necessary because the professional staff of the centres will be burdened by the decision-making role that will be played in such and similar cases under the jurisdiction of the courts in the future. It is impossible to be successful in an advisory role and to help a person if, at the same time, with a second hand in a way or another, such or otherwise unacceptable consequences threaten him with measures such as the taking of a child. I believe that we, too, do not have a dilemma in this regard, and we agree that the fundamental mission of the centres is to help people, rather than administrative work. Where administrative work is concerned and decision-making on very important life situations that cannot be rectified in return, all centres in the country need to be organised differently and thus have access to the quality skills of key staff of the legal and humanities profession, so that families, children and adults throughout the country have the opportunity to make quality procedural and substantive decisions and to have expert opinions in the context of judicial decision-making. This is not the case now, since the centres must act in several incompatible roles at the same time or in an immediate sequence: as a parental institution, advises them, guides them, as someone who assesses when and what measures must be initiated against parents, as someone who then directs these proceedings, decides, makes decisions, and as someone who can at the same time give opinions to the court if proceedings are also ongoing for the same family in court and at the same time appoints different types of guardians for the child for his or her property. And of course all these procedures are often substantively incompatible and mean fertile ground for the centres to work in a spasm and to give greater weight to some role to another, which is also important because they perform, as it were, in several conflicting roles at the same time. At the Commission's meeting on petitions and human rights and equal opportunities held in the spring on the subject of action and the reorganisation of social work centres, it was repeatedly pointed out by the section that the fundamental framework of social work, which was dictated by excessive red tape, was a major problem, as well as a follow-up to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was all the more appropriate in the field of work with the family. This administrative procedure is much more adapted to the issue of a building permit than to the decision on child protection measures. With the proposal of the Family Code and the reorganisation of social work centres, this is both ahead of us, I think the first important step has already been taken and we will all have the opportunity to support it and thus contribute to the changes that are necessary. The need to reorganise the centres has been discussed by different governments since 2002. But they were just talking. It is only now that the Minister seems to have taken this matter seriously, and it is time for this work to be completed. That's why, of course, I won't support interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this is speaking to members of the coalition says a lot. In fact, they talk all around, but they do not talk about the content of the interpretation and the facts and arguments, why despite the Supreme Court's ruling or judgment, because they were clearly and legally determined illegalities because they violated constitutional human rights, I don't know, you're still defending the Minister. More than obviously, this just means that you don't have any other arguments, and somehow you've decided to give her support and then you're looking all over for it in some way, I'll say, you're defending it. But whatever. It was said that “centres have been working in a spasm, reorganisation has been talked about for a long time”. Yes, but this minister has also been talking about reorganisation for a very long time. She was already laying down her own hands on the pilot project in 2013 so that 2015 will already be reorganised and so on. This minister we're talking about today. What we have heard before is that things need to be regulated at systemic level and that legislation needs to be properly regulated. Yes, I agree. But there are many things in this legislation that are not wrong. However, the problem is that legislation is not being implemented. Then what can we do here as Members? Can we just leave the executive branch of power to do things its own way and not comply with the law? And we have, I don't know, at the end of the second branch of power – a judicial branch of power that says legally, illegality has been committed. Then what can we do? And that's what happened in this case. The law on the implementation of fostering activities is clear. It says well that the role of fostering — if it is given by a relative — is not necessary for it to be given — must be decided by the ministry. Of course, in the previous opinion of the local competent centre, the local competent centre of the child. It didn't do that. That's what the law says. What can we do if this is not done? So to a certain extent, I agree. Family code, too, okay. He was admitted to the government today. It could have been sooner. He could have been four years ago. So I don't know. My colleague Han said that the minister still cared about her resignation if the Koroan boy now went to his parents and so on. If she really cared, she would have done everything she could as Minister of Oversight. She didn't do it. She was aware of that. I'm familiar with it. Before the children were given to their foster parents, she was aware that something was happening there. She knew things. But otherwise extraordinary control of the social inspection was ordered, it was done, there was no finding of irregularities, although it is known that they listened to only one side and not the other side – the old parents – to look for the actual state of what was really happening. [[…]] She believed it, and the story went its way as it went. But irregularities were committed and someone was affected in this story. The children were taken. And it wasn't enough, it was done in a completely inappropriate way – they were taken from kindergarten to some completely unknown environment, we don't know where. And the reasons why this was done are not. They spent three months with their parents, which means that it was in the child’s best interests to have them there, or they could have done something different earlier. Indeed, I do not understand and ask for an answer as to what the role of social inspection is, why it is trusted, whether it is still trusted, why it was wrong in these procedures, and why the Minister did not do so when she found out. She didn't do everything she could after her supervisory function. So don't ask me to talk about how the minister cares. If she really cared, she could do what she had to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, when my time comes, the Minister is not here again. Here we have her State Secretary, whom I know from her arrogant performances, mocking, at the petitions Commission. At the last session of the commission, I didn't even come to the point where I used a rough word that people like that don't have anything to look for on such functions anymore. And if we succeed in gaining power, such people will never again work where such things can be decided, where irreparable consequences can occur. And even today, I am behind these words, and I hope that all men will hear them too. The story of the Korean boys, the story of the interpolation is the story of tragedy by tragedy. The first was a tragedy when nearly a year ago the murder of the mother of two children occurred. And another tragedy, where there was an ideologically oriented profession, quasi-Slovak section of the Faculty of Social Work, where there was no competition for a decade, led to some doctrine, was born through a party of SD in social centres and ended her mission to make a tragedy after tragedy. That's the story of the Korean boys. Now let's see how it started. Work – not Reporter, not Democracy, close to nothing any right medium, Work – »Director CSD by customer line selected...« Next, 2014, January 28th: »Candidat for the Director of CSD Slovenj Gradec 54-year-old Yuri Šumečnik is the president of the Regional Committee SD for Koroška, the fourth term as city councillor, two terms as mayor, the last two mayoral elections as mayor and in 2008 as MP, he graduated in 2008.« That means 45 years old; luckily, he graduated. So the person who was the director of the centre is an administrative organizer by profession, so he doesn't even have university education and so on. If I continue to do so: public administration, appointment of Mr Lukšić. Well, at the time, his great career began. It's interesting here that I'm not going to read everything because I don't like to read that they also applied as SD candidates, just SD members for this function. Only members of the SD on this function, so you will know what the appointment looks like, what the vote looks like. The candidate needs 4 votes and 4 votes for the Ministry and 4 votes for the Ministry are enough to elect the candidate; therefore, the local community is almost unable to decide. The examination was completed and the invitation to tender was made on the same day, the same man, the professional exam and the invitation to tender was made on the same day. So he hasn't had an expert exam yet, and he's done it all in one day. For a social worker, an administrative organizer! That's what I'm talking about. This is what I'm talking about. You know the story, even on the basis of all of today's discussions, that he then resigned, he only hired the Minister to remain in his post. And where do you think he is today? Where does the Slovenian public think today is? Where do you think he was hired, the executive organizer? The administrative organizer now deals with energy, since most of the SD personnel then you have in energy. Also, those who ask why six workers come for a telegraph and six other bosses to move the booth — he's artificially employed — are ours, let's get him on the power grid. Anyone who looks at the energy bill should be asked where his money goes. And this gentleman is then employed in the energy sector. So, in the energy industry, we have my colleague's employees, a graduate engineer, a university graduate engineer back here, who are experts in this field, so let's hire him there. The man is now an energy organizer, but rather a social one. This means by this logic, Franz Breznik, if he were a party member not SDS but SD, perhaps he could also be the professional director of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, because they could be universal these people; although I have no references and I have no knowledge of medicine, except for the first aid I had to win. This is the first part of the matter that you'll even know how tragedy came about. And if someone can defend this slipperyness, this is the deformity, where people, where there is no more professional autonomy, where there is total depravity, then someone comes and even writes: in one center, somewhere larger, there are 120 or what, 118 members of the SD party. [[…]] And so there's no autonomy for someone because they're afraid of work, it's about organisational cultures, it's about management, so it's a special science branch that deals with organizational culture. And this is about fertility – to the Ministry, the whole pyramid, from the school system, through the CSD, all other matters, including other institutions, and to the Ministry. And that's the story. And now let's see what happened. On March 30th, like a terrorist attack, they were taken in the middle of kindergarten. They couldn't wait to get to their old parents and tell them that they had made up their minds. No, they say: we politics, ugly politics, right, us ugly rights, who are not socially sensitive, black, we are what happened in the middle, respected colleagues and colleagues? [[…]] After all, the whole community knew that they had been taken away, literally violently from kindergarten. Other people were taken away by these two men. And then what happened? People who knew old parents who knew family, total tragedy, neighbors, acquaintances, friends of these people in a few hours, listen, 3 thousand 500 signatures have been collected. Do you think these people don't have feelings for a child? Do you think these people don't know these old parents so they might not be good parents? Can you defend that? Can you defend that, fellows? 3,000,500 people have gathered a civilian initiative. And after this has started to happen, and then, I'm sorry, that's why my seat is a Member when I'm warned that I'm reacting with those resources in democracy that we have at our disposal. Then the case went down. Step one, step two, step three. Let us see what it says, or again today, what happened at the Supreme Court. 19. 10. concluded that the seizure of the Grand Boys was illegal and that the complaint of the CSD was unfounded. They have not made a substantive decision yet, but in Maribor, where they decide, another meeting has not been convened for six months. Let's put it in the trial mills, let's give the damage control to work so that the matter gets out of hand. Maybe even old parents will die. But you have a problem, and these old parents are basically relatively young, and one is 60 years old, and the other is 54 years old. Those ultra-left emancipated women, some of whom want to have an artificial child at this age. We have these examples, modern science even makes it possible. And look, this is the story. And when we had closed sessions to let us know professionally at a closed session, to the members of the Commission for Petitions, who were these professional criteria, which led to the withdrawal I waited for an answer to close my mouth, that I was wrong, I was prepared to do so with an argument. [[…]] You know what's mostly what, as far as I can tell, where the clues went, why they were taken? The members of the so-called socially sensitive party are likely to have been taken away due to the poor material conditions of these old parents, the underquality of the apartment, perhaps small pensions and low wages. [[…]] It is people who live like most Slovenian families, we can say poor or social, somewhere on the border of the social minimum, as is unfortunately the majority of Slovenian families. And that was probably a condition, because there was no other. Because 3 thousand 500 signatures of people who know this family every day, who even know what they have on the table, what they eat, how they dress, when they go to mass, or when they don't go to mass, if they're laymen, these people have said that something is wrong, that these people are born. [[…]] Look, they're changing the family code twice; the Slovenian public tells them that they want a classic family and that now they're not, they're going to go for the third time again. No, people have made up their minds. For the time being, we can say, at least after the constitution, that people should have some authority, through us here in Parliament and through other institutions. And listen, it's over with, the minister has to step down and it's over, you can't defend it. And now look, Mr. Pogačnik, who is a leftist specialist in psychotherapy, a social worker, a graphologist, a man I've never seen raise his voice, you know what he said? He said that you are a coalition of evil, that you are a coalition of evil, that Mr. Pogačnik told you. Firstly, Members who have left the Commission for petitions cannot believe that Slovenian Members do not want to be present because they have no arguments. Then the arrogance of the secretary of state, the typical bureaucratic arrogance that hides itself in a non-professional profession. This profession is not because it was born because it never had any competition, because there was no other college or, all the same thoughts, everyone in the same box. And that's the profession. Ask how many more of these cases have happened, because there is no system of brakes and balance, because everything is bred, respected colleagues. I would like at least a few Members, I don't know, liberals and all the other CSD workers, to get some control over these people, to get some autonomy, which is a condition for the functioning of institutions and, consequently, the whole country. And here's the problem. And now we come to the last point, the worst first contact of old parents with children, the first words that were at the end of this contact, "Grandma and Grandpa, are we finally going home?" . What do these words tell you — those who are mothers, those who have their children, and those who have at least a little more humanism that should be ahead of some political decisions? Does this tell you all about the story that they destroyed the case and that every day, every second and every hour these people do damage, and this damage goes unreparable? Mr Pogačnik as a psychoanalyst said what would happen: it is highly likely that these two boys would never understand that they would think that Grandma and Grandpa didn't want to have them and that they had to go to their foster parents. Those two won't understand this perception. And every second, every hour is done damage, and that's irreparable damage. And they're locked up, protecting each other in their bureaucratic highness and some quasi-professionality. That's quasi-professional. It's not a problem, Minister. Look, the problem is that she was protecting it. It is no problem that my subordinate made a mistake and I sanction him or remind him, the problem is that I continue to protect him. And you're protecting them. And the process continues, but the consequences in boys are getting worse. And the SDS policy was almost involved when the whole public found out when all the journalists were writing. When representatives of the civil initiative came to Parliament and told us theirs, they said, "Look, we have lived in here for decades, we know them, believe me, people deserve it." And this is this story – so a quasi-refused man who has made a mistake, which is now in energy with his unprofessional knowledge, will probably also do an expert exam there for an engineer or something, I don't know, because all of this is possible, you can cross professions in every direction and all of the industries, unfortunately. Look, this is the story. This is the story of tragedy after tragedy, this is the story that will also tell you the fate of where you were on that fateful day, when you were Members and when you were able to decide. And you decided to cover each other and do evil. And I said today, it's not the minister's fault if her subordinates made a mistake, it can't be the minister's fault. But when you're protecting it up to the last one, and you're waiting for the trial mills to be grinding even longer, just like the Sheila case two days ago, 23 years ago, they were grinding, they didn't want to admit a mistake. [[...]] It's a terrible guilt. If you're working with your coalition, with your non-reforming affairs a lot of economic damage, we're gonna survive, we're gonna put it back up, me and my friends are gonna put it back up, we're gonna take the Fourth Industrial Revolution train. But if here in these matters, when the children are, I'm sorry, but this is an irreparable consequence, and we can't fix it, and neither can we, nor no one, can fix only someone upstairs who is above us. And because of that, I'm sorry, you can't defend that anymore, the secretary of state has to step down, apologize, along with her secretary of state. And see also, the profession – from the Faculty of Social Work Not to say what Mr Pogačnik said about Gabi Čačinovic, that this is another woman than 20 years ago and that she has long been wasted in her expertise and that she can tell some stories to whom, children, even respect for her. I don't have a problem with that. And these people, look, they have nothing left to look for. There must be competition, there must also be competition in social work centres, there must be competition in all of these People must be put in place according to expertise. [[…]] I don't have a problem if you're a member of a customer, but when members of one client are in one segment, then all of this is born. And so, look, after the tragedy, there was a tragedy, and this tragedy continues every second, every minute, every hour. And today is the last time with new data, i.e. with the new Supreme Court ruling to say, "I apologize, I tried, I tried to protect myself, but now it is over, I resign, I apologize to the Slovenian public, and above all these two children who are doing irreparable harm". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So the interpretation, which is now on the agenda, is almost identical to what it was months ago. Of course, he cannot be proud of us, but he can do much harm to children and, of course, to professions. I am aware that in such tragic events as these, we must not react emotionally in any way, but only professionally. Of course, for the most vulnerable, this is for the children. And I still believe that there must be an expert in such sensitive decisions. The profession that knows the family is independent, professional, real and fair, for professional workers decide on the rights and protection of children. And here, my respects, comes the slogan: "It's for the children! I know that every old parent would give everything for his grandson, and it would be hard to admit that he is no longer able to provide for his grandchildren physically. And there are many who do not hope to say it – not because of themselves, but perhaps because of relatives, because of neighbors, “what will they say”. As a grandmother, I understand and respect the wishes of the old parents, but I do not understand you, young co-workers of the mother, who often hear that you are young and many admit that it is difficult to follow all the requirements of raising children who are not easy today – both from teaching aid, to various extracurricular activities, to quality leisure. How can we be older than that? There's a lot of talk here about the abduction of children who were illegal. Now, I ask you, folks: if you came from the social work center home to pick up a child, what would happen in that family at that time? The old parents would cry, the kid would watch what's going on, start crying, start screaming, start dragging around, get started. I don't know what the fuck this could be. [[…]] In what tragedy would these children be taken away from their parents? Wouldn't that be worse? That would be trauma for both of us. And now they've come to their kindergarten elegantly, they've taken them, they've gone into a neat environment, they've told the kids nicely, and they've come to terms with a nice environment and they've come to life just like they do. Here I see the difference that it was not an illegal seizure, but it was fair and for the benefit of the children. He was in a calm way. Believe me, the profession has experience, and it's already decided it's better. From this point of view, I believe that we have before us professional workers who have decided that they need more than old parents to develop their children in an optimal manner. If everyone were aware of this, it would certainly not be this interpretation today. Because educated people at the center are aware of the fact that such sensitive matters are decided on by the vulnerable population in such a way that it is best for children. It must be clear to all that the profession has pursued only the benefits and benefits of children in particular. Since in our country it is already folklore that we do not know how to commend anyone, let alone acknowledge that someone is good and successful — this is difficult for us to do — we are looking for something that is not our will, which we do not like, and that is why sometimes we have to lynch a person. Just like our secretary today. If you had listened to and followed the work of the Minister, what has been done well for our benefit and for the benefit of our citizens, we could only congratulate her. Instead of congratulations, we're interpolating it today and spitting on it. Now I'm going to be out of my mind. I've been in Parliament for a while. But believe me, I have often been disappointed by the debates and the inappropriate expressions and criticisms that we are not proud of. Sometimes I say that if we look for good, we'll find good. But if we're only looking for mistakes, we'll find you too. And if we are only looking for what is bad, it certainly does not contribute to the coexistence between us, which we all want, both left and right. So, respectable, let's stop and leave the child where they are. They're fine. Old parents have a chance to see each other. And I'm afraid if they were returned, if they were still with their grandparents, it would be hard to follow their demands. Maybe now that they're in kindergarten, but when they come to school -- these are the kind of demands -- believe me, I don't know if it would be a match for them. So young people sometimes find it difficult to raise and follow your children, so leave us older ones to live on our own, to live once free and leave children to those who are young, who are full of energy and raise children as they should be. You're saying we don't talk to words or what's written in this interpretation of yours. Now I've listened to Mr. Breznik. Very little has been said about this content. He talked, spat on us, on the SD, on our staff, and so on. Look, when it's that kind of thing, you say something, I think this interpolation could take two hours and we'd know everything and say it. [[…]] But we don't care, we don't care if we sit here for 11 hours to spit, we talk bad. But believe me, it's not gonna come out of this. So I hope and wish our Minister that she will continue to do as she has done so far — for the benefit of all of us, for the sake of the children, for the benefit of all citizens, and that she will also once sow the prosperity that she has actually set herself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare the mags. Branko Grims and Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much, President. In fact, it's kind of hard to talk in this way, as the proposing woman herself would have wanted. And given that I have listened attentively from the very beginning to all the performances and its repeated calls for us to stop interpreting everything for God's sake, but at the same time they expect only one and the same answer: whether the Minister's head will leave or not, for that is the main objective and nothing else, of course, the point is to discuss the interpretation for at least the first time when it comes to some topic, to clarify whether the interpretation is justified or not or to open certain questions at that time. [[...]] But I'm afraid that what the proposer would like, of course, is that we act like a Fiakar horse and only look at the question raised within the interpretation, of course, will not last. In 25 years, since there have been interpolations, no interpolation has been carried out in the context of that issue; most of the time, it has opened up a substantially broader field and has actually opened from A to Z, in fact, all or from here to forever, would have said otherwise. And that's why today I'm going to report to someone that I can stop talking to, and at the same time, of course, they're opening up questions that aren't the subject of this interpretation at all, so I'm going to try to answer a few things that I couldn't even replicate before, because I haven't even discussed yet, and I'm going to definitely touch the main impression of this interpretation. [[...]] First of all, I will start with my fellow Member, Gorenak, who says how faithful he was in answering the interpolation and he has repeatedly mentioned the interpolation – he seems to have liked it very much when it happened – and he mentions me with my army when he actually had questions in his hand. Of course, he never answered the question. Never. He never answered the basic question where he put the signatures that went missing. Today, he speaks and explains that he has shown something in the ministry; in fact, he has shown nothing; it has only shown that he cannot explore where these signatures are today. Therefore, today it is turned upside down to expect someone to answer certain questions when the proceedings have not been completed at all. Nor is it true, as Mr Gorenak said, that he has answered all the questions and has kept answering everyone. Look, there's this fat-ass spy of this interpellation that's been going on and it's written very clearly in here and it's very clearly documented that it's been quiet for more than two or three hours and it hasn't answered anything and it hasn't communicated. Therefore, do not speak as if this is your first and world-renowned interpolation, which is taking place here and you represent it as kind of a unique person, I don't know, an earthquake in this country, because in fact the proposing lady doesn't get an answer. Maybe you got the interpolation wrong. I'm sure that's because it's prescribed from the first interpolation and it's exactly the same, you're not asking any new questions. And if you read the magnetogram — to all the questions you repeat today as an unfinished source of desire, of course you could only read the magnetogram, where all the questions or answers were put at the previous interpretation. But okay, okay, I understand, there are five key cameras here that record the event and we're torturing ourselves here for ten hours – I tortured Gorenak for 18 hours on interpretation, by the way – and of course we're answering a certain question and we're talking. Let's do it. There were 264 child abductions in 2008. In 2009 – 293, 2010 – 302, 2011 – 416, 2012 – 372, 2013 this year 385, 2014 – 369, 2015 – 328, all of which were withdrawn under Article 190 of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. On the basis of this law in 2009 – 24 withdrawals, 2010 – 35 withdrawals, 2011 – 47 withdrawals, 2012 – 45 withdrawals, 2013 – 48 withdrawals, 2014 – 38, 2015 – 32. Where were you then? Where did you put in some kind of interpolation when all these withdrawals were taking place? You weren't there because you didn't care at all because it wasn't your issue, it wasn't some sort of thing that you'd be dealing with, because it wasn't on the political agenda at the time, because you were dealing with more serious things. And today to talk about that your main problem is that these two kids I don't believe you, I honestly don't believe in your honesty, but you can say that you're parents, and I don't know what else. [[…]] That's not true. Your main goal is just a political agenda, to overthrow the minister and show how everything here is rotten. And at the same time, of course, as the EPP propaganda, "when we come, we will fix it and set it all right and put it in the right place." I'm afraid of this day what this city will be like. I'm afraid of that, and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that you don't have that option, I'm sorry that you haven't convinced me by now that you're working for the benefit of what you're loyally defending today. Let me tell you something else. Of course, you do not have the courage to do so with such interpretations and hide behind your own immunity and the EPP propaganda you carry out in the National Assembly, so that, of course, you are in the middle of a fight with other people who have already been involved in this process in one way or another. Of course, I'm going to mention Dr. Gabi Chachinovich Vogrinčič, whom you've been vehemently slapping all the time. Some of you talking about her should hide because you don't even reach her ankles. Not even my ankles. According to her references, knowledge and work she has given in this Slovenian space, you are not worthy of demeaning her in this way. It's unworthy. Especially because you come, you just spit and you go and you think you've finished and done your job and you've done a check for your boss because you've done what you've been asked to do. If that's how people are treated, in that way, then I'm afraid the courts are no longer worth anything in this room, because nothing applies to you. However, it is known that courts are only taken into account when appropriate. When it doesn't suit you, you call in extraordinary sessions and say that this is the same court sucks and that it doesn't work. Today, as if the judiciary were perfect in the Slovenian space, there is no problem with the Slovenian judiciary. That's why I can't believe your honesty. Besides, you know, every time I remind you of your conscience when you talk about human rights in this room, about human rights. [[…]] I hope you understand this verbal connection. Someone who has consistently violated human rights in this country for 20 years, so many and so many thousands of people, hopes to talk about human rights today! Is there a mistake? Se. Is there an irregularity going on? Se. Is it important to warn them? Yeah. Unfortunately, however, you are the last in line to do so rightly, with pride that you have never done so. Let's take a look in the mirror first! Minister, of course there is a great burden on you, too, undeniably. It's a burden because you're simply trying to solve and solve what we agreed at the beginning of this mandate. It's no secret that we've been driving certain things for years. You know, I've been a major critic of social work centers since before, and I've said that these centres for social work have been given too much power. But that's not your problem. This is a problem because we have somehow taken social work centres from the previous system, upgraded them, and strengthened their decision-making power. And that is why today we have a kind of dualism in decision-making, in the problem that you are referring to today in the interpretation itself. On the one hand, in certain proceedings, the final centres and in other cases, the courts shall decide. We've found this in this room a number of times that it's not good. However, my dear interpellationers, you are the one who made it possible to exert ourselves and that we have been doing this for more than four years after it was unnecessary, when it could have been legal for a long time. And it probably wouldn't have happened that way. But I don't believe it if it didn't come. But that's definitely not the way it is. Since I'm not all-knowing and all-knowing, I can't know what would have happened if it had happened. But I know what happened, and that's why I can talk about it. And you have no clear conscience here, so ask yourself what you stopped when there was a referendum on how to resolve these questions! And by the way, you're not gonna believe this. We were talking about a word relationship called human rights. Minister, I want you to do your job. I know it's not easy, but you need to finish your job. Congratulations! That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Jan Mahnic, or the proposer, when she returns.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Mr Möderndorfer has now walked so symbolically out of the hall. He says he doesn't understand the motioners. This act of his, when he went out now, so as not to hear the candidates, is symbolic, for why does he not understand? If a person does not listen, it is scientifically proven that he cannot understand either. And that's Mr. Möderndorfer's problem. For if I listened, then Mr Möderndorfer would know that on 20 November 1989 the United Nations, at its assembly, adopted a Convention on the Rights of the Child, which specifically defines the rights of children. And if you listen, you might even know, as I do, that in Article 3, paragraph 1 stipulates that in any decision or decision, or in any of its organs or institutions or social work centres, if you want, the rights of children must always be the first. If we once agreed on what is enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and thus has been in force for a quarter of a century, then we could also discuss methods, the content of what this means in practice. For surely he is not in this hall, which could convince me that in the interest of the child, it is more in the interest of some other motherless parents than that of his grandfather and grandmother, after an inhuman tragedy that has already occurred to them in life and has marked these two children for life. And what did the state do? Before she decided on their grandmother's role, she had already taken the baby. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, this is a kidnapping, this is an act in clear contradiction to the interests of children. This is said to be an obvious, manifest contradiction to the interests of children in a common sense, contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the United Nations on the Rights of the Child. Not only is this unconstitutional, it is also manifestly inconsistent with international acts. The government is responsible for this. No one can say that in this case that article of the Constitution, which states that the Minister or Minister is each responsible for the situation in his or her field, does not apply. And once we get there, we should be looking for an answer to the question of how to fix this, how to bring the child back to the environment, which is certainly the most appropriate for them — at least to the wider family environment, if they have already been taken from them by that incomprehensible tragedy of the nearest family. But there's no talking about it, it's talking about everything that's been going on right now, which has nothing to do with the treatment. Above all, it has nothing to do with the rights and interests of children, because it is children, ladies and gentlemen. And I always say, once again, when any state authority, state institution has the option or right to decide on a child-related problem, it must be the interest, the right, the benefit of the child in the first place. And you've trampled that and you're beating it today with this debate all over the line, and you know it. How could this have happened? This is what happens when political decisions are made on matters that should be decided by the most basic human heat, but by reason of the legal system, seek the benefit of children. For if one party pays for one institution as strongly as all the figures that have already been presented here today, the SD has taken over the social work centres and, of course, has put its minister at the head, and then it is no longer surprising that the situation is the same as it is. Then, in all the media, there is endless talk about the rights of children, which are supposed to be best realized in some single-sex families, but it is not said that they need a warm home, that they need a father and a mother, but if because of some extremely unfortunate circumstance that affects a child, they cannot have it, but at least a grandfather and a grandmother; someone who loves him, who knows him, who trusts him. It's in the child's best interest. To grow up in an environment where he feels good, where he can develop his personal abilities, his emotions, his vision, his understanding of the world, his values. No one can give a child better values than his family. And these are the interests, ladies and gentlemen, those of the child, which are enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations and which you say are those that we wish to draw your attention to and that is all that you do not understand. That tells us all about you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the context of the second interpretation on a similar topic, however, it is necessary to point out, in fact, the fact that – or perhaps a finding – is more correct – that, despite all the debates we have had in Parliament so far, we cannot really determine whether children are better cared for or not. In fact, the children who were in the family who experienced the tragedy are key, and the tragedy is the one that we should actually try to analyse and advocate for as few cases as possible in families in Slovenia. And I am certainly also fully associated with the Minister's response, which points out that children must be protected in the first place and the privacy that has not yet been guaranteed, and we must also respect it because of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Last but not least, if we look at all of these procedures and the observations that are being made to the Minister, she has in fact taken a decision and suggested to the Government that she should be excluded from all proceedings related to this case, either in administrative or judicial proceedings. And the Government has taken this decision and has excluded it from these procedures, which in fact shows a proper approach to all this process, that it does not want policy to influence how individual authorities decide. Above all, these decisions go towards the protection of children's rights. And if we really want to do more on this topic, that there will be in particular fewer cases in Slovenia and not least that we will have even higher fertility than this moment in Slovenia, then, of course, it is also necessary to create an appropriate environment in the country in order to make sure that, of course, young people or all those who have this wish will be able to make it possible for them to have adequate conditions – from housing to employment, to, of course, adequate protection, education and, of course, health care, and, finally, adequate pensions. This is what we should ask ourselves whether this moment in Slovenia is to a large extent taken into account in the solutions we take in the form of laws or declarations and other acts that are under consideration in the National Assembly. In short, our goal should be to reduce people’s hardships and, as a result, family hardships. And when we look at what has actually been happening in the last period, especially since the economic and financial crisis, we are trying to act in the opposite direction, that is, not to take into account the situation and the hardships of people, but to take more account of the financial interests and the narrow group of people who are exploiting people to make the most of their wealth. And neoliberal policy is one of those policies that certainly leads in this direction. And here I have also pointed out many times that it is one of the obvious advocates of neoliberal politics that is certainly not friendly to people. And that is why it is also kind of contradictory if you want us to talk about these cases today, because first of all we need to create really better conditions for us all to live a better life in this period in which we live and to take care of the young generation in particular and its future. In short, it is the standard of people that should always be before our eyes in all decisions. The fact is that even in Slovenia we are losing more and more precisely the middle class, which is actually the class that has a decent payment for its work and that, of course, it can also provide an adequate or at least suitable apartment and that it has the opportunity, of course, to attend cultural events, that it has the opportunity to organize a holiday and not least, that it has the opportunity to organize a meeting within the family even if you want to, these last decisions in the National Assembly – the second January. So what helps you to have a day off if, in fact, you cannot ensure within your family that you can put on a table everything you deserve and that you want too many, and they may not succeed. And I am trying to keep this problem in mind, somehow, right through this fact, that every time there is a sale of any property of a country that is not actually state-owned, but the property of all of us as a community, for every sale we are so much poorer and more sensitive to all the events that take place both within the country and, of course, beyond our borders. And I would really like us to actually come up with a solution to stop this bad practice that is obviously hurting us. Finally, we also have more and more cases of recordable cases in the sense that the country is being used and too many funds that could go to a health-care facility, to a pension fund or to provide adequate infrastructure, in the pockets of those lobbying and interest groups that are trying to influence decisions in those state-owned enterprises, or, of course, to try to organise themselves in a way that makes money through so-called public tenders, where we always find that things are not well-ordered. And if only here we could make a substantial number of orders, more resources could remain to be allocated to create an appropriate family policy, especially by maintaining one appropriate status of people, and then, of course, political decisions on how you will ensure this are, in fact, minimal. If the standard of human beings is right, it is, of course, significantly less dependent on whether any appropriate or inadequate policy decision will also have a fatal impact on the status of the family or on the situation of children. So significantly more energy, I suggest, should actually be directed in this direction and, above all, avoid the politicisation of those topics that concern children in particular. And this case is certainly one of those, so, of course, I reject this concept of interpolation and, above all, I join in finding that this is actually an abuse of the interpolation institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I must say that today's interpretation is being used again for content that has absolutely nothing to do with it. And to speak on the one hand of our abuse of interpretation Dear representatives of the coalition, most of you today did not talk about the topic of interpretation. [[…]] I understand you, because you have no arguments about how to defend this, so you're saying everything else. But the presidents, and I appeal to you, take care of a little more order during the session itself and really warn when it comes to topics that do not fall under the topic that we have today on the agenda. It was said to avoid politicization of those concerning children See, proven irregularities have occurred on the bodies belonging to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities. [[…]] The Supreme Court ruled on this and I don't understand how we're not supposed to talk about it. Not the President of the Government, although he is a constitutional lawyer, and although immediately after the Supreme Court's decision, he said that this was a serious problem, that I did not know that he would have to talk to the Minister seriously, he did not react again. The Minister does not respond to this, but what else do we have to discuss in this National Assembly? It is our duty, not least, to decide on the responsibility of the Minister. To remind myself, the Prime Minister of the Government himself said in June that certain aspects of objective responsibility could be found, so he himself said that the Minister was objectively responsible. Now these irregularities have been legally proven. I agree, it is absolutely wrong to discuss this at all, because in a normal country this would not be necessary. Ministers in a normal country are dropping out because of significantly smaller things. They're not waiting for, I don't know, the constitutionally protected human rights to be violated. But more than obviously in Slovenia, we are not a normal country, and the task of the opposition is to point out this. Of course, you, the honourable Members of the coalition, listen to us to go to a proper debate concerning the content of the interpretation. But today is more than obvious everything else on this agenda. Or should I refer to the previous speaker, Mrs Marija Bachič, who spoke, "they came to kindergarten elegantly, they took them to a pleasant environment". I mean, this is really absurd. The Supreme Court said that the abduction of the child was illegal, and she was talking about how elegantly they came to kindergarten and took them away. I mean, this is really outrageous. I believe that people have judgment and have a healthy farm and that they understand these things much better. I mean, I just can't comment on it at all. And that's supposed to be for the kids! Taking the children from the family community – we are talking about the family community, although the minister did not want to admit it earlier, now, according to the Supreme Court ruling, she will have to recognise the family community also between children and old parents. And I believe it will. But before that, this family community was constitutionally and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And to talk about that it was for the benefit of the children, but this is really absurd, so that many debates go in the wrong direction. I will quote once again the words of President Mir Cerar, who said 20. 10th, this was according to the Supreme Court’s judgment, this was his first statement: “I must say that after this Supreme Court decision I am concerned. As soon as I return from abroad, I will have to sit down with the minister and talk, or else I will have to adopt some very clear positions. And here, of course, I would expect some concrete power, and now I will finally be engrossing." But we're already used to a lot of things in this government coalition. Breaking a lot of things, so it's not unusual either. But what is interesting is what he wrote in the Journal of Work 25. 10. what the Management Committee of the Community of Centres for Social Work has said, which has expressed concern over the Supreme Court’s judgment. They said: "When the Centre for Social Work of Velenje decided on the fate of boys, the legislation, the practice of administrative authorities and the case law were clear. According to the Supreme Court’s judgment, this is no longer the case.” And I, Madam Secretary, am interested in what was clear earlier when Velenje, the Social Work Center, decided on the fate of the boys? What was clear? The procedure relating to the nursing of the old parents, the grandmother, was not legally completed when Velenje’s Centre for Social Work had already placed the child in foster care before it was known whether the role of the grandmother would be positive or negative by the Ministry. Before, and that's it, huh? This is the clear practice of the administrative authorities. This is how the centers used to work. What were they thinking here? How many similar cases were there when the Ministry did not decide when the Centre for Social Work voluntarily decided where to put the children? How many such cases are there in Slovenia? I have asked you this question before, and I have not received an answer to it, nor have I yet received an answer regarding the role of social inspection. What is their role today? Are you still defending them? How do you assess the irregularities identified below by the administrative inspection? Why didn't social inspection find out about these irregularities? This is the only body you have as minister to oversee the work of social work centres. And then you say that we want to encourage by interpellation that citizens will no longer trust in the institutions of social work centres. I don't know how to trust them after all this. Do you even know how many letters, how many emails, how many different ones, I don't know, People stop us, come to the office and explain their stories. [[…]] How long are they waiting for you at the Ministry of Labour to decide on individual complaints against decisions issued by social work centres? How many of these unresolved cases are going to the extreme legal deadlines? How much of this is in Slovenia? And, of course, you are all still defending the Minister despite this “professional and independent” centres for social work. Dear Minister! It must be in your interest that the organs work well. About the reorganisation, you promised this reorganisation years ago – it is still not there. You promised it before the previous interpolation, and I then understood that there was also one family code, and the other also a reorganisation of the conditions, that the largest coalition party would give you further support. Really, Your Honor, answer the questions you have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel and Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Mr Uroš Prikl said earlier that the Minister is probably leading one of the most demanding if not the most demanding resort. I agree with this; it is a resort that actually covers the entire life span and it is difficult on this department to drive politics in this direction to satisfy everything. However, this is so much more difficult if the department is headed by a minister or a minister, who further encourages the adoption of an irregular policy, creating a conflict – including his statements and, above all, the inability to accept responsibility. Not just objective, but subjective. And no one here blames the minister for coming to kindergarten in person and taking these two boys. Far from it. That this has occurred is somehow a logical consequence of the situation we have at social work centres. Madam Minister has been on this site since 2013 as Minister. Previously, she was, if I am not mistaken, a State Secretary from 2008 to 2012. This is said to have only been a year in the lead role in this area, so that it certainly bears a significant share of the responsibility in this, if we can say, on the one hand, the politicisation of social work centres, which is evident to the ministers, and on the other hand the failure to act to improve the situation. It is interesting that the first interpretation was needed, that Prime Minister Miro Cerar set up an ultimatum for the minister and actually told her, "now start working if you don't have to leave this ministry." Unfortunately, in our country, nothing can be done in a nice way. There must always be a story. There must always be something negative. There's always someone who has to worry about his existence in the workplace, about his job, about something moving. And it's not just here in social services, it's similar to the Ministry of Infrastructure, where until there's some dangerous section to which it's alerted, at least some fatalities, we don't, unfortunately, go about eliminating or preventing any negative consequences. That's why I'm interpolating. There will be no interpretation for any decision in all criminal matters filed by a lawyer of Korean boys or old parents. The fact is that this decision was crucial and that, as a result, we decided to reintroduce this interpellation in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it did not come from the Minister to any self-criticism of any other kind, and that after six months we would discuss again where we have the problem and, above all, why this problem is not resolved. And look at the fraction, right now the government is adopting or presenting new solutions based on family policy. I said that when the Social Democrats start preparing changes in family policy, then it is better that their parents cover up their children, because the question is what will be done by social work centres. But that's politics. Social Democrats run this resort, it is in Pahor's government, it is in the government of Alenka Bratušek, it is in the government of Mira Cerar. That is why we can speak in particular and in this case only about the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Mrak. We have heard many times that we should deal with something else, that it is not an object of interpretation, that we abuse the family tragedy of acquiring political points and so on. It is clearly written in the constitution and also in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, what interpretation is and when interpretation can be filed. And if I am not mistaken, when the Minister was confirmed by the National Assembly by the coalition majority as Minister for this department, she swore there on the floor that she would respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia to act in her conscience and with all her power for the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's somehow in this text of this oath. That's when she made a commitment to respect the constitutional order. And the constitutional order, which is practically the highest category, certainly includes human rights. The coalitions are particularly full of human rights in this mandate, even though you practically put everything in this pool, in this basket of human rights – even what I don't belong to. And then it happens that when you want to characterize something and mark it as human rights, and you are so convinced that it is human right to confess another human right on this basis, it is the right to freely decide, to direct or direct elections. I'm talking about a referendum; proclaim another human right – a referendum. The Constitutional Court then allows the referendum because it tells you not to talk about human rights as to whether the same-sex couple will be able to adopt a child or not. Well, I think next week, December 21st, will be one year when over 400,000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia say what they think about this destructive policy, which leads to a traditional family, which is certainly a fundamental cell of society. In short, the minister goes against what she swore — to respect human rights. The court ruled that old parents were violated by human rights. The answer was, “We did not work for the benefit of old parents, but we acted in behalf of children”, they protected the benefit of children. I'm asking you, how did you protect your children's interests or whether it's not the benefit of being with their parents? And in this interpretation, we have written the actual situation as it is, and since it is difficult to defend ourselves against these facts, today the debate on the general situation in the field of the ministry led by the Minister of Interior is largely heard by the coalition Members. Let me repeat what the topic of today's interpolation is. We interpel the Minister for Responsibility in disproportionate interference with human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: the protection of children and the family and the creation of the necessary conditions under Article 53(3) of the Constitution, the special protection and care of children under Article 56 of the Constitution, the right to personal dignity of children and parents under Article 34, the right to private life of children and old parents under Article 35, and the suspension of the duty to exercise, within the political and official powers to guarantee human rights in the illegal removal of children in the care of their parents, the responsibility and abandonment of the duty of acting as competent ministers, which must ensure that the State authorities and holders of public powers in all activities and procedures relating to children take care of the child's benefit and integrity of the family community in the event of the illegal deprivation of grandchildren in the care of their parents, and the responsibility and the involvement of public authorities in all activities and procedures relating to the work of the Court of Justice, which is responsible for the criminalisation of the Court of Justice. Thus, the interpolation is quite concrete, referring to a particular case. And we are not talking in general about this mandate, what has happened in the field of social policy and what is not. And I think that this is the biggest problem because it is against the concrete perceptions, which are also based on the judgments of the courts that you so respect and advocate – this judiciary in our country – that it is difficult to defend against it. And the only instrument you have then is to discredit the proposaler in a way that abuses a specific issue, we can call it a political issue, for it to collect political points. And further to clarify the matter further, we explained the actual situation with regard to the case of Maria Otorepek and Ivan Škratek, in fact presented the situation at the Centre for Social Work in the case of CSD Slovenj Gradec and this error in the collection of grandchildren and the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. This is not the topic of today's interpretation, although whenever we open up a point in the National Assembly and say that we are going into a debate somewhere else, the presidents remind us: "this is not the subject of the agenda." But when we talk about interpretation, which is very focused on a particular area, but even a specific case, and even from those who normally warn the President, “remember, for example, the SDS Member, because this is not the point of the agenda”, they say, “interpellation is the point of the agenda where you can discuss everything” and therefore there is no need to adhere to the text and what is written in the proposal that we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It saddens me that one of the clients has changed her mind. Nothing has happened in this half year since we last had an interpretation of this same case, despite the fact that there are still things now that are still burdening the Minister. [[…]] Then, in June, one coalition party did not support the Minister, but now she has promised her support that a number of things have come together in this case and that things are not yet as they should be. However, each vote assumes its own burden. You swore an oath to your constituents and to the electorate, the minister swore to respect the constitution. It does not respect this constitution, nor does it sanction those who do not respect this constitution, but are subject to it in this hierarchy of ministries. Unfortunately, he does not respect the commitments of the President of the Government when he makes an ultimatum when he gives specific tasks. But the Prime Minister of the government is such that you can't expect anything from him if it's a prime minister who's satisfied with some broad reform, even though it's written on 12 A4 pages.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We filed an interpolation on October 24th. The government or the minister has prepared answer 23. November. So, between the reply and today's meeting, three weeks have passed, and Mr President, I think it would be right for the Minister to prepare herself so much for this point, at this particular point of the agenda, after seven weeks, which has passed from the submission to the consideration of the agenda item, so much to be able to answer the questions raised. Unfortunately, despite the intervention, I have already intervened twice, but there are no special answers to the content of the interpolation. We're not interested in government plans and other things. The programme is simply a proposal for a second point, but we are interested in the answers to the specific questions raised by my colleagues on behalf of the proposer and others who have discussed this point. And given that it is actually sad to monitor that no coalition is even less able to answer the questions raised here, I suggest, Mr Vice-President, that you call the Minister – given that you've been constantly writing for six or seven hours, all these notes and so on – to answer what she's said. We're expecting answers. Interpellation is not a monologue. There is no monologue of those we propose, nor is it intended for the coalition to accuse the applicants that we have abused anything, because we are constantly calling on the Minister to give some concrete answers to the questions raised. I suggest that you take some time and answer many questions from Suzanne Lepi Šimenka, Franca Breznik and Vinko Gorenak, Branko Grims and others who have discussed at this point whether or not they hold the nominations. Given that you have such great problems in the coalition and also the Minister herself, our statements hold and stand at a hundred percent. A hundred percent. Vice-President, I propose that you do this procedural duty and invite the Government to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much. So, ma'am, about an hour ago, you asked the same question, and the Minister was then answering. What the minister says and what not, of course I can't put in. [[...]] There you go. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that I have asked a similar procedural question and I have also said that there was no answer to what I have put as a procedural proposal. Mr Vice-President, you must have heard what I asked, and you have listened to the debates of fellow Members, and if you want to conduct the meeting as you wish, you must find that there are no answers to these things that we have put forward. No answers! No one asked the Minister about the adoption of the new law. Nobody. We are talking about the implementation of the Supreme Court judgment, and we want answers to this – not about the Government's normative programme, not about the Ministry's vision, because this is not the subject of this item in the agenda, but we are talking, in our own words, about the implementation, regulation and implementation of the Supreme Court decision. And you must have heard those questions that were asked. And I suggest you ensure that we have the answers to these questions. That is why he is the President and therefore the President must hold the meeting. And according to what I have said, I suggest you call the Minister to answer the questions raised. We do not need any other answers than the answer to the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary heard you, of course not. Dr Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. If I somehow use this vocabulary, which has been used so far, that you have enough to discuss, colleagues, especially the proponents, that you have enough of what we are discussing here today, that it is not in the context of a topic that is the topic of interpolation Now you are recycling this topic – as in an advertisement for one known battery, “it goes on and on...” [[...]] – one case, one case, which was before the Centre for Social Work and then finally before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. What we will discuss in the National Assembly, any of us Members, what we will assess, what is connected to a topic, is our business. And that's exactly what you're telling us, which is a lot of times what you're discussing, and you just don't let yourself say anything and argue that this isn't the topic of a specific agenda. So please stop calling us so we can't talk about what we just assumed we had to talk about. It's been mentioned a lot that there's something abnormal here and I don't know what. I would ask myself whether it is permissible for us to discuss the procedure that is still going on all day. Yes, the Supreme Court has decided on a provisional order, but the content of the matter is being decided before the District Court — who will be assigned custody. So that's it, that's it. The content of the case for us – that would be normal for me – is over, the court decides on it and here the National Assembly for me, for my understanding has nothing to look for. Not that we are now discussing all aspects of this case: custody, I don't know where we should give someone and I don't know. We see it as if we're a court of law. While I have some experience with this, my colleague Gorenak would probably remind me if I were here, but that is not the purpose of Parliament. And you will remember and I will repeat once again: the Ombudsman; there she stood and said she called us when she presented the annual report on the protection of human rights, so that we do not refer to a specific case, to interfere as little as possible with the rights of children in this particular case. But no, you've made up your mind again, once again. I think that this particular case should not be dealt with by one and not by the other – specifically what is happening in it – because it is not yet concluded before a court. Pika. My colleague Jani Möderndorfer said that there was already a lot in practice of social work centres when the case of child abduction occurred. Are we going to treat them all here now? I guess we won't. Of course we won't, because it's not our jurisdiction. And thank God we won't discuss it. No, but all we're doing, what you're doing is on one occasion, on one occasion, you're creating a picture of social work centers, about the ministry, about everything that's going on, and it's one case, how everything is now wrong and everything's terrible. I don't think it's good for us to criticize and accuse social work centres across the board, to somehow create an impression and signal that now anyone can criticize anything because of one case. All right, you'll say, "there have been more exposed cases," but these are two, three, a couple of cases that don't represent an important number compared to what all the social work centres have dealt with. We can't give a message, at least I think it's a very dangerous thing to do, to say that anyone can strike long and hard on government authorities. Let's say the social work centre doesn't work well, it's all wrong because of one case. Doctors, that's all horrible to her, and they have no idea, they're all terrible. Judges, yes, of course, I know what you're going to say. And then what happens? In practice, it happens that customers come to the social work centre, to the doctor – well, the patients are there – and the parties to the court, and I talk to the employees everywhere a lot; many times it happens — even now at the doctor’s office — that when a patient does not get in well, the client is already angry and says, “You have no idea”, and I don’t know what, and there’s already a dispute before he even got in and before he even got any service he asked for anything. I think that this weakening of trust, the level of trust in Parliament itself here is harmful for all of us, for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that Parliament should avoid this, challenging confidence in other bodies. We all want these authorities, state authorities, to act well to provide us with the services they provide and to be as much confidence as possible in these bodies. And so Parliament can contribute, in one way or another, to raising or reducing trust in these bodies, and I would like to work more on it, without saying and repeating things now in vain, which we trust blindly, but to take advantage of a particular case that we repeat and repeat, one case or two, or, I don't know, we expose individual cases and then build on how everything is wrong and how these bodies do not work and do not trust. I think that if we want to have institutions that are worthy of trust, we should not follow that, and we should not do that, because, in the long run, we will feel the consequences of it, I mean, I am sure, all of us here – not just the citizens who are outside, but the whole country. So this is my basic purpose, which I wanted to say, that we can make a significant contribution to raising trust in other institutions as well as to raising trust in Parliament itself as such. As far as this is concerned and because somehow interpolation and its content, as it is set on this one case, which should show what is wrong only one case, I repeat that it will be clear, on this one occasion, how everything is wrong in the centres for social work, so I cannot support this interpretation, even because we are talking again about the same matter. [[…]] [[…]] As for the Minister, you know we have a lot of work to do, and we have a lot to do, too. [[…]] However, I would like to express my gratitude for your support for a pilot early-treatment project for children with special needs, which is a project of three ministries, but this was where cooperation had to be ensured. We also have personal assistance before us; the proposal is tabled, but here we will have a lot of work to do if we do, how we will act in this procedure in relation to this law, what we will do. We will have a lot to do and talk about how the matter will be arranged as we will think it is best and will be best arranged for those with special needs who need personal assistance. We will also have discussions on the law on early treatment of children with special needs, and in particular I think we will be dealing very much with the family law that is at the door, and here we will have many opportunities to discuss. So a few things have been made out of what we agreed should be, we continue our work, so you have my support, Minister, and I wish you to continue your work successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš and Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am somewhat disappointed that, despite these calls for the Minister to answer the questions raised, she simply does not answer. You said earlier that the minister was listening to us, but unfortunately the minister doesn't hear any calls to answer questions. Someone who knows the parliamentary procedure – obviously not someone who came into politics yesterday, but who is already a career politician – probably knows that there is talk in Parliament and that there is an answer and that there are views, opinions that some solutions or clarifications are being sought in these discussions. At this point in the agenda, in this interpretation, like the previous one in the field of education, the Minister, who is intertwined, decided on some unusual tactic; sat for 7 hours and did not answer. This means that the matter which is the subject of today's agenda item has obviously not studied that it is not ready for answers, that there are no answers and that all those indications that we have written in our text of interpretation on 23 October are valid. Neither of them was rejected by one argument, with one argument. Not one. And there is no minister, because she did not discuss, except for the future work, and the coalition was more involved in all other things, except the agenda. The presidents, the classics, allowed a very broad debate on the narrow subject, on a special topic. And, I'll say, they've allowed for a non-business discussion. All I can find here is that the secretary failed her exam. The second conclusion after today, I don't know, is that there can't be a 7-hour debate in fact, there's no other conclusion. I have to say, I'm also kind of surprised by the opening statement that we've abused the interpolation institute. The President of the National Assembly, who was asked to comment on this, said that this interpretation was tabled in accordance with the constitutional provision — Article 118 — that it was tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure — Articles 250 to 253 and that the point was dealt with in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure. So, all those of you who have talked about abuse, read these provisions again, and I suggest that you also have a course so that you can understand them. The Institute of Interpellation is a constitutional category and to challenge the use of parliamentary constitutional and business tools in the discussion is a discourse, a deviation that serves solely to discredit the applicants and to withdraw from the specific agenda item. I was just expecting the secretary to know something about these things. By the way, the decision of the Constitutional Court was issued on 19 October, that is to say two months ago. And today we have come after all these documents submitted, ours and government, ministerial and Supreme Court rulings in a situation where the Minister, who is interpelled, cannot answer, cannot answer, cannot defend his claims made in that opening exposition, where there is no debate. If they are experts or if they are such experts in this government that they do not even master their field of work, it is difficult to talk about what this government will do for people in any concrete way. Interpellation is an institution that speaks of political responsibility, but it is the judgment of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the person who is being intertwined. And here I have to say that this interpellation is being filed because there is a clear violation of the procedures because there is a clear violation of the constitution because there is a violation of the laws. And the minister covering this area is objectively responsible, at least objectively responsible. In these cases, the Minister has done nothing to reduce the damage to prevent violations of human rights and violations of laws. She didn't do anything about it. On the contrary, it has done everything in its power to protect the decision of the institutions involved in this process, in which exactly this has happened, is a violation of human rights. That's right. And engagement at a press conference of those who as citizens could know as much as we politicians, but they knew more, and in an unauthorized way, the problem is. This means that at the time the Minister was aware of the problem they faced in this case, and she did everything she could to defend herself politically from the highest possible instance, according to the Minister's statement at the press conference, a decision which, for my terms, is still harmful, illegal and unconstitutional, with irreparable consequences so far. Here it is to say that the Minister did not interfere with the procedure in this particular case by convening a press conference and inviting 5 or 6 people to that press conference, means that she actively participated in the process at the very beginning and that all of this procedure in the course of the unconstitutional, illegal abduction of children takes place with knowledge and under the tutorship of the Ministry and the Minister. There's no other way to end this. I have to say here that the Minister is not only objectively responsible. The Minister is subjectively responsible, even because she does not act as she should. He has powers to his employees, to institutions, to centres, not to act. And this is also its subjective responsibility, because it tolerates, covers further errors and abuses that have occurred in this process. Actually, the problem is still a little bit bigger. Recognized that things do not work in this process, do not function as prescribed by the Constitution and also by sectoral laws, there were others. Among other things, the information officer, including the Ombudsman and, last but not least, the President of the Government, Mr Cerar, is a constitutional lawyer. Unfortunately, I need to find out from the materials available to me that these institutions have not done their job as well. The Information Officer was able to lay down a number of penalties for minor infringements of legislation; not of the Constitution and of human rights, but of legislation. In this case, by relativising her findings, she covered the Minister's decision regarding Gabi Čačinović Vogrinčič, by not actually taking any action, no sanctions against either of them, even though all of them knew that they were working unlawfully. If we Members at an open or closed meeting are unable to familiarise ourselves with any circumstances, then someone who is not working for the Ministry cannot be familiar with these circumstances, even if it is a social teacher. I'm afraid not. And the fact that an institution or information officer covers an illegal decision by the Ministry is scandalous to me. We don't need such an information officer in this country because he's protecting one, he's punishing another. And he punishes those who have done, according to my judgment, a much smaller offense than it did in this case. The other is also the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman has long been familiar with the problem of the Korean boys. Practically from the beginning. Except there at the beginning, when something was discovered and found out, and there in some way at that stage of the proceedings the Ombudsman took a normal position, but it is interesting that, following a decision of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman in this particular case, at least as far as I know it, did not make an announcement at all. If, because of a violation of the Constitution and of human rights, the Ombudsman should contact and protect individuals from institutions, then he should do so in this case. Since 19 October, the circumstances following the Supreme Court's decision are clear and the Ombudsman is not in this particular case - after what I know, I may not know everything - have taken no concrete step to resolve this problem in accordance with the Court's decision. The fact that the problem is even more complex is also the fact that the decisions of the Supreme Court are challenged even by the Community of Social Institutions. I wonder when we are in this Chamber, you say many times, "we do not comment on decisions of the courts, we must not." One Community of Social Institutions can do this. For what purpose? In order to cover their boss, the Minister of Labour of the Family of Social Affairs, did they do this for any other purpose? And the big question is how the procedures have been carried out so far. In this case, there has been some judicial or public disclosure, and so has the public. But some cases are unknown because people — those affected by these procedures — could not turn around properly. And now the Community of Social Institutions is obviously standing in this case over the judgment of the Court, and this is the Supreme Court. They didn't go to challenge her, but they're commenting on her as something that's unclear, something that can't be implemented. And it is obvious that such a finding by the Community of Social Institutions is one that prevents anything in this area from happening to these children, suitable for their condition and for their immediate family. I think it's more than scandalous. The problem is also the President of the Government. If the President of the Government has made a decision and found out in this case, some tolerance, some hand, perhaps to remedy the mistake, then we should have a clear position in the coalition today on this. If you have zero tolerance for non-compliance with laws, constitutions, human rights, then at your request, the Minister should be dismissed. If you have zero degrees. However, if you have double criteria for human rights violations, violations of laws, violations of the Constitution, then the Minister is the best, as some coalition lawyers have discussed, which were once even judges. Then it's okay. I understand that. But then you no longer have zero tolerance for human rights violations. You don't. You don't have a zero rate to break the law anymore. You don't have any ethical criteria anymore. By the way, this appointment of the new Secretary of State has already been made in this context, Jureta Lebna. And so on and so forth. And then we can only find that no password you have written in your coalition contract or coalition agreement stands there for the work of this coalition there is no firm commitment. Finally, you proved this in the Government's interpretation of the proposal for a decision that we proposed, which is a quote from your coalition contract, two paragraphs were cited there as a decision that was directly linked to it, and you rejected them. I think we're in a situation where no more things work in this country, when no more commitment is in effect in this country. When the President of the Government and the ministers no longer stand for your oath you made in the National Assembly. You no longer respect the constitutional order, because the violation of the Constitution means a direct disregard for the constitutional order and the ministration of the oath you have made here solemnly. All I can find is that problems and violations, problems with these children, in fact, are only increasing over time. You have not reduced any problem in this process at this time, resulting from such an unconstitutional decision or illegal decision, where human rights have been violated in order to reduce matters. You don't even bother, but you insist on what you've done, and you're taking the matter to a rough end. It also bothers me that these children were treated in such an inhumane way. What you ordered, which was determined by some decision of the Social Work Centre, to kidnap a child in kindergarten and to take them to an unknown place to unknown people, is probably scandalous for the 21st century and human rights to be protected by the Constitution, conventions and other matters. That's not how you do it. If that were to happen to the children of the minister, it would probably be a revolution. However, because it has happened to some children who are from a weak environment, this is a model of how to act in such cases, and this is terrifying. There's one more thing I'd like to ask you. In all of these statements we listen to, you refer to the fact that you have done the best you can for your child. What are the criteria on which you determined this? Who decided that? Because if I'm reading Article 56 of the Constitution, which speaks specifically of children's rights, there, I don't know, I'm asking, were these kids in this family, where three months ago after that unfortunate event, they were abused? Were they used in this case? Because these are probably the reasons that allow for some concrete intervention. Were they exposed, I don't know, to mental, physical, social and other abuse? That would be a good answer. Because if something is taken, something is decided and this is argued as the greatest good for children, and nowhere in any word is this greatest good for children defined, then it is only a password. It's just a password. It does not stand on any solid foundation. If you reach out to a family that doesn't want this intervention, if you take their children from this community and they don't want it, then it's hard for you to realize that it's the greatest good child if no one has ever turned on you to do so. A petition of people who have been signed says otherwise. And the 3,000 500 people who signed this — probably people who live in that environment and know the matter. Then some administrator decides what's best for the people. The Ministry will cover it. I must say, I have another dilemma. The dilemma is that neither the Minister nor the Social Democrats nor the President of the Government will admit any error in any process. That's the case. No one I've named in this procedure will admit a mistake. Defend a case that is harmful to the court’s judgment — not for the benefit of those who have done so, but for the benefit of the opposite party. And you're defending it, I'll say, until the last drop of blood. It seems brutal to me that way. And that only indicates that President Brglez's theory of natural law is only moving forward. You're incapable of admitting mistakes and so forth. What's worse: even if the court finds a mistake, you're not and you don't want to fix it, and you insist here as much as you can. I'm asking, is this some kind of commitment in this coalition if things can work this way so that no mistakes can be corrected? At that brilliant performance earlier, the minister spoke of a change of law. But what will change if he doesn't respect the court? It's up to the court to decide that now. This is where the court ruled, and in this particular case, the Supreme Court has ruled, but the Supreme Court's judgment is not respected. What you've accepted in the government today is just, I'll say, misleading the public to show that something else could have been done. If you have a face, you could have complied with the judgment of the Supreme Court from October 19th, but you have not, and you do not want it, which is even worse. You didn't then, and you don't want it now, and it's been two months now. And all I'm asking is, why do you do it like that? Why do crystal clear things in this country, even in this particular case, not move from a dead spot? They're standing where they are and just as you've decided. There is no force to move this to repair the damage that has been done. Otherwise, it will be difficult to fix. I must say, it is, and it would make sense for the Minister to resign on her own. If the Minister does not resign herself because of human rights violations, then the President of the Government should do so. If the President of the Government doesn't do this, then I don't know, another institute has to be used. But, gentlemen, if this is not done, then you have suspended Article 3 of the Constitution, which says that there is a state of Slovenia? Legal and social. Now I'm asking if it's a state of law, if nothing is done? If he insists on some illegal state. You're right. Article 2 is the Constitution. But I ask you, are we still this – a legal and social state? There is a violation of the Convention on Human Rights, which is an international act, of the Constitution as regards human rights, in several articles, and we have a decision of the Supreme Court, which is trampled in mud, where no one wants to decide anything. I expect from some normal country and some normal government that has sold us some commitments to the Slovenians to make these commitments come true. If a problem arises, the matter must be resolved. Persistence to the problem is a problem in this case and in all other cases that continue to be dragged forward. And if you are not prepared to do absolutely nothing about human rights being respected, exercised legally and so on, then stop talking about democracy and stop talking about the rule of law, do not talk about the legality, ethics and other friends that you take out and sell to the Slovenian people. That's why we have a bank hole and nothing is done there, and things are standing because you're explaining all these cases in the same way. And the same is true in health care, where things are explained in the same way. So, if it's your interests, it's the abuse of the constitution and the law and so on, everything is allowed if someone just looks over there, but it's in a criminal procedure based on the Indics and so on. So I suggest, fellows, that when you vote on our proposal, you decide to make more than reasonable decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša and Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the introductory words, I have made quite a criticism of the anti-social measures taken by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak or at least tolerates these measures and has tolerated them for an exceptional reason to remain in her chair. Unfortunately, this criticism has been overlooked by the executive branch of power, unaddressed and unresponsible, so I will take it to the key points below. But before doing so, I must respond to what my colleague Škoberna of the SD species has said, namely, the fundamental differences between SD and the United Left. We socialists are supposed to be dealing only with social benefits. See, the difference between SD and the United Left is not that the United Left deals only with social benefits. However, we also deal with social benefits, because we know that no economic growth can help children, disabled people, hard-working people and other vulnerable groups. They can only be assisted by redistributive mechanisms of the state, deliberate, systematic social policy. And we also deal with these social benefits because, according to the Ministry, they do not reach an approximate minimum of decent living. At the same time, we do this because we do not understand how a government, a resort and a party promoted as a social worker can, on the one hand, serve to freeze social benefits and, on the other hand, double the income for the best wages in the country and thus lose 80 million euros in revenue to the state treasury, which is about as much money as we would need to raise money social assistance to at least about a human worth. Not even satisfactory in truth, but at least a little more normal, human than it is now. Therefore, I propose to my colleague Škobernet, who has attacked us so vehemently that he goes to the peasant women who have been taken by the Pahor's government and to the poor pensioners who have been deprived of their protective allowance, and to those who are also left completely without rights by the current government, to explain that they should not guarantee, but that they should be happy because the minister has an active employment policy. But the real difference between the United Left and the Social Democrats is hiding somewhere else. That is also very nice of the same colleague Škoberne when he said that the country should be friendly to employers. The country is already friendly to employers, so the difference between them and us is that SD is just another mainstream party who wants to be in every way friendly to employers, but the United Left is a working party fighting to eliminate the unfair system, to abolish it, to overcome capitalism. And no, the United Left isn't friendly to employers. And what is most sad about the minister and her client is that in fact there is no longer any social democracy, but neoliberalism, which hides behind the kobayagi red partisan scene. The minister and her apologists boasted about the decline in unemployment. However, they were not fair enough to say that only last year 8 000 500 of our citizens were evicted from our country. To put this in perspective – more people moved out of Slovenia in the last year alone than they moved out between 1995 and 2002. These are the results of our social policy and our employment policies. If I continue with the Labour Inspection Act. Look, in the United Left, six months ago we proposed a revision of this law, and then we leaned on the analogy with the Law on Prevention of Work on the Black. Of course, it was practically a reflective response to the government that this analogy was not possible. Then, look at the fraction, and six months after that, Anja Kopač Dark proposes a law that reads: "The legal arrangement in Article 19(2) of the ZID-1 is not entirely new, since it made sense a similar arrangement in the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black". Why I point out this is a very simple reason: that the minister does not save poverty, but does not save the labour market, but does not save the employment opportunities of young people, but only parades them for their own self-promotion, as soon as the possibility of political prestige disappears, of course the work of her own department is of little interest. As a result of these policies, Anja Kopač Dark should have gone long ago — not because she is attacked by the right hand for political prestige and in the child abuse process, but because the Minister herself is abusing poverty for career media promotion without eliminating this poverty. Anja Digač Dark should briefly go away because she saves the chastity in such a way that it increases it, saves poverty by deepening it and unemployment in a way that makes people run away from the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digač Dark has the floor. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I can assure my colleague, Mr Kordiš, that the Ministry is working with its team to the best of its ability and in accordance with the real possibilities. We are doing and I am always doing what I swore — for the welfare of citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, the social situation of citizens and citizens, even if you might like to show it, does not depend solely on the Ministry of Labour's actions and only on the social policy which redistributes what has been created. The fact is that there is an important possibility of work, of employment. And if we look at some numbers in this area. Unemployment fell below 100,000. And you'll say, "Oh, it's nothing, because they've gone abroad." But the fact is, the employment rate has risen. And if we look at the number: January 2014 we had a working 781 thousand 561 people, September 2016 824 thousand 438 which means a little less than 43 thousand people more. Youth unemployment decreased by 42% from the end of 2013 to September 2016. From 32 thousand to 523, unfortunately, there are still over 18 thousand 919. The guarantees for young people with whom we tried to tackle unemployment were, at the time, still in the Government of Alenka Bratušek in the wake of the upsurgence in 2012 – we were praised by the European Commission and, even in the period 2016-2020, it is intended for these measures for the employment of young people EUR 300 million. With calls for an active employment policy today, I believe that New Slovenia has been exposed to no calls for proposals. [[…]] That's a long way from the truth. Active employment policy measures, job training, labour testing, first challenge and others are listed and give many people the opportunity to join the labour market. If we just look at a few numbers. For example, in 2012, this is the only period that you state that I was not a minister or was not a minister, and only 11 000 680 people were involved in active employment policies, in 2015 22 000 960. If we look at the number in public works: in 2012 €19 million was earmarked for this, in 2015 €36 million. If we look at and conclude from the fact that it is a decent job, that it is a key minimum wage – today it is €789,15. If we look at the graph, this is many times already, the graph of the movement of the minimum wage is about: in 1995 the amount of minimum wage was introduced as a minimum, for which someone can be paid for full work. This did not change significantly until 2009, when in this same Pahor government, which you are constantly exposing, it rose by almost 25%. In 2015 we also adopted a change in the definition of minimum wage because I am the Minister of Labour and because we are in the Government in which we adopted a change in the definition of minimum wage and today the situation is the same as it is. If we look at it, you're talking about penniless workers. Yes, absolutely, we have a problem. But Mr Kordish, you will probably admit that they have this problem elsewhere and not only in Slovenia. Unfortunately, even in Greece, when solving problems like yours, today is a very similar picture or even much worse, much worse than in our country today. But that's right, it's easier to promise people that we can redistribute. But unfortunately, first we need to create so that we can redistribute. The Ministry of Labour has prepared documents Decent work, Senior in the labour market, key strategic documents. In a public debate in which you, of course, are involved, there is a law that addresses these issues. Three laws. These are the Labour Market Regulation Act, the Labour Relations Act and also the Labour Inspection Act. You have mentioned many times, Mr Kordish, that we have not supported your proposal. We really didn't, just take a look at the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to see what the key arguments of non-support were then to your law. At the same time, in 2014, we amended the Labour Agencies Act. Bank guarantees are required, liability is included. There are significantly fewer, but still too many agencies today, I agree. The fact is that there will be some solutions to be found inside here, but you cannot possibly say that we have done nothing and that we do nothing in this area. With social policy, as I said, let's distribute what we've created. Unfortunately, pensions are a reflection of the labour market, wages. And as long as we have two-thirds of Slovenians under a thousand euros of net wages, unfortunately, pensions will be as low as they are. But certainly, the White Paper is the answer that at some structured dialogue we will have a new reform in 2020 and that we will also provide young people with pensionable pensions. I also absolutely agree that the minimum pension for those who have worked for 40 years must be above the price of a protective allowance. Unfortunately, too many people are still living under the risk of poverty, but on the other hand, I am pleased that the level of risk of poverty and the number of people is decreasing. It is also true that, with regard to child poverty, which is the most painful and where we all have the most difficult heart when we talk about it, it is still important to point out that, according to Eurostat's latest data, Slovenia is among all European countries in the fourth place, at the lowest level of poverty in children. In front of us are Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Unfortunately, poverty — poverty in general and, unfortunately, child poverty — is a reflection and fact in all developed, modern, capitalist societies. You ask many times about the effectiveness of social transfers; you ask yourself whether we are redistributing a billion 300 million euros in an efficient way. See, the European Commission, which compares the data of all Member States, noted that in Slovenia we reduce poverty by 42% through transfers. On average, Member States reduce these by only 35%. The fact is, however, that we are earmarking for social transfers less than the average of the European Union. We can say that with less results we achieve better results than comparable European countries. But the fact is, there are still people among us who need help, and that is why we are doing everything we can within the money we have, within the framework we are within, freeing up measures and adding rights. Even if you want, the Red Cross and Karitas are distributing food packages because the Ministry of Labour has provided €20.4 million to share this food. This year we raised the minimum income from €262 to €288; at this point it amounts to just over €292. At the time of the largest economic growth 2008-2011, if you want, it was still EUR 230 and remained unchanged from 2001 when the minimum income was introduced. This year, over 97,000 children received a 10% higher child supplement; in total, 250,000 children received a child supplement in our country. With this year’s year’s fathers have a five - day extended paternal leave, from 1. 1. 2017 for 10 days; i.e. they have a total of 25 days. We've introduced scholarships for deficient professions. As a result of the measures taken by this government, the State grant receives 3,000 more young people together – an average of 42 000 435 young people received it in 2015. The reduced payment of kindergartens is enjoyed by 89 thousand 500 children, subsidies and lunches in primary school 101 thousand 634 pupils, 22 thousand 150 students, 70% reduced by 8 thousand 929 primary schoolchildren, 40% by 4 thousand 733; total by students and students – the number is 137 thousand 446. Free lunch in primary school – 17 000 771 children. 70% of the subsidy has 16 000 955 children, 40% 11 000 960, total 46 000 668. The last amendment will be confirmed next Monday in the National Assembly. Rent subsidies receive 10 000 500 beneficiaries. Also, the debt write-off project, to which most of you attribute that it was negligible – €2 million has been written off. Does that seem negligible to anyone? Probably the one who was written off doesn't share your opinion. The amendment of the Law on Social Security Benefits will be discussed in the National Assembly on Monday. It's crucial, it was said, that we don't acknowledge mistakes. We have recognised the error on the basis of the facts, we have proposed a change and this change will substantially change not only since 2012, but also further, because the Succession Act and the fact that the recipients of monetary and social assistance and the protection allowance, money and social assistance as social assistance are obliged to repay their beneficiaries of this benefit has been established in our country since 1976. With this change of law, it's overturned. We have introduced technical tools in the field of disability protection. There wasn't one before that. We have increased the substantial integration into the security work centres. Number of places of employment centres. We are preparing a law on social inclusion. In the case of personal assistants, it is likely that we support the law, especially because it is the work of the Ministry of Labour and it was also presented by a staff member of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs at the press conference of Nova Slovenije. In the area of domestic violence, we have adopted and ratified the Istanbul Convention. We passed a new Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. Today the government has adopted a family code. The call for 15 intergenerational centres shall be in the final stage prior to the selection of the selection. Reorganisation of social work centres – 21st we have coalition coordination, the law goes to public hearing. Long-term care; you said it wasn't a draft. Last year was also a public hearing by the Ministry. Conclusions at the government, adopted in 2013; also with regard to the strategy of long-lived society, the Ministry has made its part of the story, but a long-lived society is not only a question of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, but of society as a whole. I believe we're trying to work with the team within our capabilities. If the budget were 5.10 billion more, the situation could probably be even better. But I have a clear conscience that we are doing what we can and my colleagues in the government would be able to say that I am a strong negotiator and that I always advocate policies and money for implementation, which are part of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has applied for procedural procedure before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, the Vice-President or you who are holding the meeting have probably just found that what the Minister has just said is not the subject of interpretation. Probably. I hope you followed. We are talking about the work of the Minister and responsibility in a particular case called the Koroan boy and the execution of what should be done in that case. What the Minister has now had is probably an agreed debate on the response of Mr Kordiš to the question from the previous meeting, but we should vote on that at the time. What you're doing is you don't even know what the agenda is; you don't know what career policy is, so the minister doesn't know what the agenda is. After 70 questions from my fellow Members, including some of my fellow Members, we have not received any answers. The secretary was quiet. The silence of the organ, as I mentioned earlier. But when you talk about a point that could be dealt with in the budget, there, by the way, the Government quietly said nothing, nobody said anything. That was for there. And such things, Madam Minister, then put on the agenda when you propose what action is involved and when some law is proposed in this matter. Now we're talking about Korean boys. And probably every average Slovenian watching this show knows you're living in a completely parallel world; you're at a meeting of the National Assembly where we're talking about your interpretation of Korean boys, and you're talking about unemployment, social subsidies, and so on. How much did the Koroan boys get? Okay, let's just make sure that we don't wander around for long and everything that's falling into someone's head, but that we're concrete. How much do the old parents of the Korean boys get? Come on, let's get back to the case. And look, Mr Vice President, I know you're a loyal soldier of the coalition; you're in charge of the meeting, so you don't hear anything, you see nothing, you listen to nothing, and then you decide everything's okay. That's not working. Those who run the session, read the agenda item, read the material that we have made, the material of the government, and then conduct the session, not to charm from Triglav to Vardar. [[Laughing in the hall]] That's not working. You're graduates, you're professors, you're doctors, what would that be like on Mrs. Dark's exam? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Well, you know what I'm gonna say, Mr. Tanko? The Minister was very long, but she was within her available time and was directly challenged by Mr Kordiš and she felt she had to respond. Mr. Kordish, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	It is true, Mr President, that you are absolutely right, so that I too will not respond to the statements of the lower boy on the other side of the hall, but I will point out the following. What a hard career policy really looks like, we have just seen a wonderful pattern when the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities explained how they manage this area successfully. But in these 20 minutes, she failed to explain why poverty persists at a very high level. She was unable to explain why the luxury of Slovenian society is growing. She also didn't know why young people run away from the country, because the politics on her social watch are supposed to be such that it's all about full super nice and they're doing I don't know what already. [[advertising from the hall]] It also did not explain why almost half of pensioners are below €500 and do not allow people to survive. Of course, it has served with some discredits. For example, she mentioned Greece. Unfortunately, she failed to say that Greece had been brought to its knees by the sociodemocrats under Papandreou. She mentioned the law on inspection of the work we had prepared in the United Left and begged us under the nose for an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. At the same time, she did not say that we and the amendments have aligned all the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Finally, she boasted of the fact that in the Pahor government – which left 50,000 of our people stranded, 50,000 poor people in need of social transfers, had little pressure on the wall and raised the minimum wage from the system during that government. But you know what, this minimum wage was ripped out by the Pahor government by workers who gathered at an impressive number of 30,000 and filled Ljubljana. The minimum wage raise wasn't donated. The working class beat it. Last but not least, the minimum wage is raised by the government, which the working class squeezes against the wall, or the government, which is the working government. That this government is not a labour force, that SD is not a labour party, and we know very well, also from the last reply of Minister Anja Kopač Dark. She referred to the European Commission as commending her. Not poor people, not retired people, not young people, not anyone else. The European Commission. My procedural proposal, Mr President, is whether I can ask the Minister for Work, Family, Equal Opportunities, Social Affairs to know that my last name is Kordesh and not Kordesh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Good thing I'm a little deaf in my right ear, but I'm not that deaf, President, that I didn't hear Mr. Kordish make a fool out of Mr. Jozet Tank. Even though I am in the other party — if we don’t at least respect each other in this National Assembly and label ourselves with some lower boys and not know what else, then I don’t know where we’re going to go. And I ask every President not to discuss this debate, which, I will say, is now discussing and exploiting procedural proposals, to explain in substance everything they know and know and know and what they know and do not know. But the procedural proposal is mine to warn Mr Kordiš that he does not offend Members in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	Mr. Kordish, I think you've been in the previous procedure quite a long time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	If I have truly offended Mr Jozet Tank, in such a case I apologize to him; otherwise, I do not think that Member Jože Tanko needs any lawyer for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please. Procedural or debate? Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the brook uncle Ronald Shega, who has about as many brook roots as his colleague Kordish, would be disappointed at the level of the colleague's debate. This is an American astronaut born there, like at least one of his parents. I have to say, I respect the people who are there, but you can't predict everything because there are smart people there, and apparently some of them took too much with them when they went to America. As for my procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President. I addressed you personally because I asked you if you had read the interpolation and if you had read the response to the interpolation. The debate can only take place in these contexts, but it cannot be the work of the Ministry in the field of active employment policy, as this is not the point of the agenda. We cannot deal with Eurostat because this is not the point of the agenda. We can't deal with salaries because that's not the point of the agenda, and pensions. When we put this on the agenda, we'll talk about it. And I have warned you to warn both the other Members and the Minister to concentrate on the agenda and to answer the questions raised ten hours ago. At nine, the first questions were asked, and then at eleven, twelve, and all that time until now. But there are no answers to these questions. The minister writes something – we don't know if he writes the right things, the question if he understands – but he obviously doesn't want to answer it, and your job as chairman is because you are directing, leading the National Assembly right now to make sure that we get the answers to the questions, because otherwise the important part or the key part of this point will be unanswered. And if now those who hold the meeting are unable to do so, then you too can say good-bye to these functions and anticipate other persons who can do so. The Minister is obliged to respond, so it is a point of order and a meeting of the National Assembly. Explain the question and give an answer, as colleague Gorenak said earlier. Nothing can be left unanswered. Nothing. But if you want this fog and this bad work to go on and hide by setting up this assistant, the Deputy Secretary General of the Government, so you don't see too much in the Minister's camera, then that's the problem. Come on, Mr President, make sure we get questions or answers to questions. Not to deal with some tricks, but to manipulate the session. That's your job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Of course, I know what the job is, but the fact is, I can give the word. But I can't say what anyone says. And we have listened to all sorts of things today – from what the Ministry of the Interior has done in previous mandates and so on, and also had no direct connection [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Dr. Gorenak, yes So that we have heard all the varieties today and, of course, in this sense, sometimes it is better to let the discussion go 5 minutes longer in a certain direction, which is not entirely in line with the title, than in this way. [[...]] Because that is true of many, and I must say that I myself have heard many of them on a different subject today. Mr. Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me. Procedurally. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Ms. Susana Beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. More than obvious, when we ask the ministers specific questions concerning the item on today's agenda and on specific cases and irregularities, we do not get any answers. More than obvious because there are no arguments for them that could be explained in such a beautiful pianist way. Of course, for other pear stories that have nothing to do with today’s subject, it is no longer a problem, and this indicates one great ignorance of the minister’s work. But still, dear Minister, I'm going to go back to the agenda and the interpretation itself. We will simply repeat some things if they are so fond of forgetting more than obviously in this national assembly. Let's do it in a row. First, remember, it was a tragic event, and the old mother then made an application for foster care for two boys who had lost their parents. One could not exercise parental rights. And then this process of granting foster care was not legal. Why wasn't he legal? Because it was not decided in accordance with the law. It was not decided within 60 days and did not decide within that period by decision. And even before this procedure was completed, the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec took the child away from the old parents and handed them over to the foster parents. Dear Minister, I am interested in this – the Supreme Court's judgment was clear, the abduction of children was illegal. What did you, as Minister, do about it? What have you done to eliminate human rights that have been violated? What did you do about it? And I wonder why such an irregularity could have occurred? Was the Director, who later resigned after an inspection by the Administrative Court, an administrative inspection, as we call it, or was the fault in him, in his inexperience? But, Madam Secretary, you have advocated that this person has been framed in this job, the responsible job. And despite the warnings of employed people in this area, in the social field that this person is not suitable because he does not meet the conditions because he does not meet the relevant years of work in a similar job, you went through it. And with your political power, of course, then in the world of the institution you voted and placed him as director. He was obviously no longer an expert, but it was only important that he was politically fit. And, Madam Secretary, if that's how you stood up for this person, then you must bear the responsibility for the irregularities that this person has committed. Then you must bear this responsibility. These are the consequences of political recruitment and not professional recruitment. And in this case, it would be wise to accept responsibility. In view of the fact that these cases are large in Slovenia, this is not a lonely case, since we would be able to tell colleagues from Desus about this, they may have mentioned earlier how these authorities in the Ministry are covered with SD personnel. [[…]] It is more than obvious that this is happening in many ways, as we have also been warned by citizens about similar stories. In nursing homes, you're looking for a director for two years, after four calls to get the right SD personnel to this job. So the profession doesn't matter here. It's just that it's politically appropriate for you. But such political decisions and the neglect of the profession have led to illegality, a respected minister. And here's the responsibility for you. Why did you let these things happen, can you answer that question? And finally, you were on the side of your old mom about the case, as you yourself said, March 25th. Children were taken from their parents on 30 March, and you ordered social inspection on 1 April. Why did you wait until April 1st? Why didn't you storm right away? What were you waiting for to have this child taken away first? Finally, this social inspection, which falls under your irregularity department, has not been established; you have not answered me whether you still trust this social inspection. The administrative inspection found irregularities in the procedure. What did you do about it? This means that such irregularities can continue to occur. Did you urinate? We know that in the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec and in the Centre for Social Work Velenje have resigned the Director and that is it. Does that seem right to you? You yourself said that, according to the jurisdiction of the judgment, you would respond appropriately. How did you react to what you did? We didn't get any answers to that question. And finally, this press conference on April 6th – you called it yourself, with the Director of Social Inspection and also with the external consultant. Why did you do that? To make it public that there was no irregularity in this procedure. Did you want some things under the rug and say, "It's all right, it's all right, but now we're moving on" like the slogan of this government, no matter what happens. Now we know that they were violated by the Constitution of Human Rights, and the procedure was illegal. But you're just going to keep on going. Dear Minister, answer these questions, how many such cases are there in Slovenia when the competent centre for social work, when the local competent authority has not given him the role to play in the ministry? How many of these cases are there when you haven't made a decision within 60 days? How many such cases are there in Slovenia? And finally, on the role of social inspection, what are you going to do in the future with this? That would be the topic of this interpolation. I'm asking for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša, please prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	Vice President, thank you for your word. In recent times in the National Assembly, we have been talking a lot about waiting lines in health care. Well, I've had a waiting line here today; some have gone ahead, they've taken advantage of these options, but I don't know if there's been any corruption here or not, according to the rules of procedure, so I've kind of calmed down and I'm going to try some things from my point of view in connection with the interview against the Minister to tell you. Well, already in the position of the Group of Members, I told the Minister that we have established a slightly better dialogue between us. I hope that we will build this up and that, of course, you will listen to us sometimes and, above all, you will hear it. At this point in my debate or when you will return to the floor, I really don't need any answer to my debate. I have already mentioned in the position of the Group of Members that this time we will not talk so much about the content of the interpretation. Since others have spoken, I will speak in my own way about what I think is right to tell you, my fellow Members and colleagues, as well as the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I am particularly concerned, Minister, that we have not yet received a law on long-term care. I know what this is about, but it's not my question right now, but it's a question of the government and the ministries within the government. Why didn't the government file a personal assistance bill? We were somewhat rushed to the right, but I also received some information that this introduced law, which is in the National Assembly, is very similar to the law that the Government had prepared. How will we or will we primarily deal with demographic trends? Here I may say a few more things or also some information I would like to point out and, of course, in this direction, that this is of course a great deal for our society in the future. How will we fight the fact that there will be as few in our society as possible who live in want? How are we going to protect the pensioners so that we can wet them with a decent active age? How are we actually going to involve young people in the labour market? And I could count it. Well, now I'm going to look a little bit more specifically at these demographic trends. Our company in Slovenia is an increasingly ageing society. Men are now 72 years old, almost 73 years old [[advertising from the hall]] And women are 80, actually, 81 years old. It is expected that boys born in 2014 will be 78 years old and women will be just under 84 years old. These are questions that do not yet concern our society, but we will have to make all the guidelines now so that there will be no problems when our society is actually getting older. Look, over 65 years of age, we have 18.5% of our population. It's true that in the year 2080, that's really far away, and it's going to be 28.1%. These are numbers that somehow warn us that we must now prepare for the future. Because I got a white book extract on the table a little earlier. The White Paper is one of those who will give a certain direction where we will go in this area, but of course we must not forget one thing, the key things that we will have to think about in the White Paper, first of all, how we will ensure a truly decent life for all those currently living on the threshold of poverty, below the threshold of poverty and just above the threshold of poverty. Of course, we will have to take care of these people. And in any case, we will have to think about it even though last year we spent 10.9% of our society's gross social product on pensions. You know, this thing is problematic. But it is also problematic because we have cut back in the past, and I have said this a lot, half of the employer's contribution to pensions. And that workers – and this is a unique contribution to the European Union – once more. I hope I didn't give the wrong information, that I have the right information. And, of course, I know that this is not just a matter for ministers of work, family, social affairs, that this is a question for all governments, that we will once have to say bob beans and equalise the matter again, because in most cases employers actually have more contributions than employees. If I stay a little longer with this pension reform, as I mentioned earlier. We will have to make every effort to ensure this decent life in the future and, of course, the pension reform, the next one that will, will have to be in this direction. As the basis for this debate, of course, is this document, which I have mentioned a little earlier. The biggest problem in the whole story is, of course, that the state has to contribute 1.4 billion to pensions. And of course, always our customers, who in some way are advocates of the pensioners and we are sensitive to them, are always clear to us that we are pursuing pensions, that, of course, the state budget must ensure a difference, and then we are discussing some of the minimum amounts of coordination of pensions that we have achieved now this year, is planned for January next year. In the past, we even had to move away from these requirements due to the economic and economic crisis, and pensioners are in fact the part of the Slovenian population that has lost the most or the least of them in this economic or economic crisis. In Slovenia there has been economic growth for the third year, but individuals' wallets do not yet feel this, and the poverty risk rate in Slovenia for 2015 was 14.3% and fell for the first time after two years. Generally speaking, poverty is declining, but this does not primarily apply to the older generation or population, especially where one member remains in the family, of course, because the other had to leave unfortunately. At that time, however, there are major problems among these elderly people. Unfortunately, the old-age pension is €619 in Slovenia, which is, of course, not enough for a decent life. €596 is the threshold of poverty, which is said to be only EUR 20 between the average pension and the poverty threshold. Now, respectfully, answer me – but I already said, I do not expect the Minister's answers today – is it possible to live with such an amount of dignity? It's not. But all the governments we've had so far, of course they wanted to, had interests, but none of them did. That is why, of course, in our party and in our Group of Members, we will in the future demand that this threshold be properly regulated. And we will demand a minimum pension suitable for minimum wage. There will be great problems, we are aware of that, but this is our further direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have two other discussers in this regular part. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, it is your turn to prepare Mr. Mitja Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Well, first of all, I must say that it is either a tragedy or I do not know what it is; now that I have listened to the debate of my colleague Franco Jurša, “we will ask for it in the future, we will arrange it in the future” and sit in all governments. You must be ashamed to sit here and talk shit like that. In all governments, he sits and talks today about how they will and when they will do something. I don't think that's normal. And a client like that doesn't really have anything to look for in the National Assembly. He really doesn't have anything to look for. And today I must say that I have also listened to a great deal of debate by the groups of Members, and I myself have thought to concentrate as I have made very clear in the position of the Group today, but this is the only issue of this interpretation, and it is simply not possible. It is simply not possible after what I have heard here today in Parliament and when I have listened to the press conference of the Minister; the press conference is there, a space for a press conference. And she had a press conference here today when we were talking about interpreting this problem, the problem of Korean boys. She had a press conference here. A similar story has happened with representatives of the Social Democrats. Unbelievable. Always in the government practically, they always have everything in their hands. And Madam Minister, I don't know how long she's been sitting in the government in one way or another, but in the end, we're always facing a bigger problem. Ever before the increased indebtedness of our country, more people are below the threshold of poverty and so on, so that I do not discuss it at all. More and more pensioners on the verge of survival and so on. So, I see the biggest problem today's debate that the Minister doesn't see the problem. The biggest problem is that the secretary doesn't see the problem. Then the real question is, can such a person sit in such a position and for so long? I think that's unacceptable. We have talked about this question in practice for seven hours and the entire previous interpretation, and so far we have not received any concrete answer here. It seems to me that this is unacceptable and truly such ministers, and we do not need such governments and coalitions. So that the parties of the coalition can practically – I will use a very rough term, but I apologize in advance, or I will not. [[Laughing in the hall]] Make it look a little better. But I think it's different. I'm going to say this, that a coalition or the largest coalition party can support the minister in all the problems she's had so far, and I always see, I hear everything from the first to the last time you speak in superlatives. It's amazing that you're not so critical that at least that little bit of criticism can be said honestly. You are not as critical as you know that many mistakes have been made so far. And you know, when we're out in the lobby or wherever we meet and talk, you say, "it's true, we see this problem, we see this problem, it's going to hell," and so on. But here all hands up, the vote to keep the coalition, just to pass the mandate, and you don't care how and how the country that the country is going to go, how people will survive and so on. They don't care. It's important that the privileged in this society live as gods. This is essential that they can continue to steal, that key people are in all positions, that nothing happens to those who have robbed banks and so on. To get back to the story. A very important question to ask me — who can claim that it is in the child’s best interests to break the family community in which children live? Today, this is a fundamental issue. And there was no answer to that. Are the old parents the problem in the whole story? Or do we have to defend a child, a Koroan boy, from old parents because the Koroan boys lived with them for three months and had a wonderful time? [[advertising from the hall]] Well, you've seen it, but you've been following the thing a little bit, and I apologize for the expression. But you've been monitoring it and you've seen what it's all about. But that doesn't mean anything to you. Now we have to defend the Koroan boy from the old parents. Well, that's not normal. This isn't normal company. Look, it's very interesting, which I think is very important that today happened exactly what happened at the previous interpolation when we talked about this problem. And Mrs Romana Tomc, who knows social policy very well, is now a European Member, has written the following on her blog, and I will quote: “The Minister has passed the interpretation. The result of 43 "for" interpretation and 38 "against" is Pirov's victory, but the rules are rules. This was, of course, not a decision about her good or bad work, but a test of the strength of the coalition.” Just like today. “This has shown greater weakness in political recalculation than I would have liked. At a time when we need a strong and unified government with a vision and a clear economic and social programme, this is a bad journey for the future of Slovenia. In her performance, the Minister spent most of her time” and now listen, “to accuse the interpellationers and the rest of them of presenting the Ministry’s work, with a focus on the future work programme. There were fewer responses to the apparent interpolation.” Just like today, look, it's like I'm painting it. She went on to write: “It is for this reason that they have been raining promises about what they will do in the ministry in the coming months. Nor did the Minister skirmish about the merit of reducing unemployment and ensuring the welfare of the state. She also boasted of the lowest degree of inequality that we should be concerned about. However, the work of the Minister so far shows that the bad luck in the selection of projects and problems in the realization of its ideas. Words are one thing and acts another. The failed projects, the unfulfilled promises and even the diversions and deceptions that Dr. Anja Kopač Dark afforded at a time when it had an impact on the ministry’s work is for the whole book. This, of course, raises suspicion that most of what she said in her defense of interpretation will remain only an unfulfilled desire and a challenge for some other time and for another government." I hope that you, dear colleagues, have listened to what is written. And that's what we heard the second time today. Unbelievable. It's amazing how such a man can be in a minister's position, how!? And the coalition is solid; now the representatives of Desus have announced that they will support the minister, but they have spoken in mind. From that time onward, what changes have been made by the minister, what things have been arranged for Desus to change his mind? But with Desus it's no problem, he thinks, today he's talking like this, tomorrow he's talking like this coalition and this government, and it doesn't matter when the pensioners have a thousand euros in pension, and then see And now, of course, because the election campaign is coming up, what do you think? [[…]] They're back on track, they're going to be putting in some solutions and so on and so forth. All the years that were in coalitions, and any of them fighting, they struggle a little. Big words, no results. Well, look, what's interesting is what I think you should see. I think you know this story, I think I can read it too, the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities: "Anja Kopač Dark should withdraw immediately, Pahor and Cerar acted cowardly. Members and members of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities chaired by Eva Irgl addressed the point of Human Rights Violation by the State authorities in the case of Korean boys at an emergency meeting in the National Assembly. The coalition has completely ignored the meeting, and the SDS party and the Children and Family Movement are all clear that it is pressuring the court. At the same time, the rulings apparently forgot that the Constitutional Court had already ruled two months ago that human rights had been gravely violated by old parents. At the meeting, the President of the Government, Mir Cerar, and Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, were virtually unanimously convicted in the case of the Korean boys, although the Constitutional Court had already decided that the removal of the Korean boys to the elderly was illegal and that fundamental human rights had been violated.” And Madam Minister and this coalition, and all those other than the SDS, New Slovenia, you claim that everything is okay, that nothing is wrong. That the Minister did nothing wrong to decide in accordance with her legal rights and duties. No. Look, we've presented today, I don't know how many times, what was wrong, and where the Minister should have acted differently, but she didn't and she didn't do anything. [[…]] She was defending what was wrong, and that's not normal. And I don't understand you coalitions how this is possible – just because you keep the coalition, you'll do everything you can to keep the minister, because otherwise the esdeans from the government will go. That's a fact, that's clear. And that's not normal. This is not normal for our people, for people, because you weren't elected by people. You have been chosen for the people of mankind to defend their interests, their desires, and their needs. We've all been chosen to do this together. And it would be good for the coalition to really gather its power this time and say: “We must make an end, stop” or the biggest government party will see where the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities with his work or with his bad or bad work will lead her. And yet, here it is written, so to conclude what I wanted to read: “This is a series of violations and abuses of personal data, as well as abuse of social work for political purposes, condemns Donko. In his opinion, Anja Kopač Mrak is personally responsible for the case of the Korean boys, as the public has deceived her by saying that the Ministry has excluded her from the procedure, but has supported the actions of its subordinates, which is a clear indication that she was aware of all the procedures. Since the case was personally brought to light, she is also responsible for professional responsibility. »At the meeting the Commission could not decide on the conclusions, and the present agreed that Minister Kopač Mrakova must step down immediately, in order for someone who has a human ethical sense and hopes to take this decisive step to bring the child back to her only real family.” [[…]] And so, colleagues and colleagues, you can see that not everything is as you claim, as you explain, that there are many open questions that we have not received an answer to in seven hours today and at the previous interpretation. And it should be important for you to make a decision on the basis of arguments, not by keeping the government and staying in Parliament. This is a mistake, this is wrong, this is the wrong world! And now look, I have, I think, enough time to quote you now one very important thing – otherwise I don't like to read, I prefer to speak without the papers, but here is so well written, there are certain things written that it's right to read them so that I wouldn't forget anything. [[…]] And it's a document of pravapeticia.com, 23. 11. 2016: The resignation of Minister Anje Kopač Dark. And it says here: "This petition is written on its own. The demands of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark come from both left and right circles. From the circles of the poor and the rich. Experts in the field of social work or only those who are People. It's gone too far and it's taking too long, and the victim of the irregular situation is getting more and more. The poor aren't just left but right. Just lazy and/or idle. Not everyone was born under the same conditions. The starting position is a little different for everyone. We've changed as a society. We simply allowed poverty. Indirectly legalized her. Like taro, an unpleasant remnant of the progress of the majority. The urgent evil.« »Poverty in Slovenia has become our everyday life. [[…]] Postage is no longer an exception, before the rule. Socially disadvantaged people are a permanent problem. Social work centres often deny them many rights, and the Ministry also decides on complaints after more than three years." Do you think, dear colleagues, that's normal? Is that normal? And he goes on to say: “Employment agencies often illegally delete them from the records of unemployed persons. Unemployment is less (seemingly) than the result of the more favourable international economic situation, migration of workers abroad, removal of the unemployed from records, even the socially disadvantaged, who consequently lose all means of survival. What are the costs of all these offices? The cost of working for the unemployed? How many millions did we spend, and what did we get for it? With what right have we divided the unemployed into different conditions of residence rights (Western/Eastern region – since when do we divide into these two regions?)? What is the impact of all these projects? What's the calculation? How's work law? We're still in slavery. We still tolerate prostitution, but at the same time we do not legalize it. It's obvious that work inspections are not working. Free students are still more than ordinary works. »We also work as a student while he is still studying. [[…]] "The pension system is chaotic – no one knows what he's fighting for and what he's waiting for, but the pensioners can no longer survive with their incomes. [[…]] You're on your own? How is the care of the elderly? What about voluntary work, with the payment of this as an activity allowance during the period of unemployment? Just for the chosen ones? Of course, there are Koroška boys here. For the time being, the decision of the Court of First Instance is a matter of direct shame for the Ministry. Did you have to do that? Couldn't it be arranged differently? And if it had already happened, would it really not have been possible to arrange something else so that old parents would not be harmed? Couldn't wait for the situation to be settled? “Did you really have to take the islands when you were in kindergarten?” [[…]] Is that human?" And again, it seems to you that nothing is wrong and you continue to support the Minister. Unbelievable. Unbelievable! There's still a bunch of small, personal stories of people who are lost in the currents of the social system that are obviously collapsing. A failed project of so-called values. Failure to launch a so-called debt write-off project. I'm socially endangered myself, and I have debts. I carefully examined my options: I couldn’t write down a single cent. When I read about this news in the forums, they envied me if I was lazy, that others were paying for me. Embarrassed project to help with the accommodations of the extended families. Eleven apartments? How many have landed literally on the road?" And continues: »Surveys of market rent. Only after they were burned by the Constitutional Court did they sober up and realize that they had done something wrong. Who will pay for all the damage, suffering and grief, care and denial to all those who have already warned at the time of the introduction of the amendments to the subsidy that this will not work? Who's responsible? Well, it took so little. Don't take anything you can take. Which is not possible. Because this decision will be fatal for some. Who is responsible for all those who have landed in debt or are even in the process of sharing? Who's to blame? They were warned about what was going to happen. Where are the rights of those who have paid into the pension fund, and today they are not subject to this? Is it really necessary to seek the right of the European Court of Human Rights to prove your right? Is it really so hard to understand a person who paid in good faith to do what was right? If it is not according to him, then what do you think it is: an ass or a cheater? Both of you? How much nepotism does the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities cover in staffing in management positions? How many directors of social work centres or labour offices that are members or sympathizers of the SD Party? Coincidence? Did the IMF become a permanent property of the SD, and you forgot to let us know? Are you even listening to anyone else? Do you care a little about people?" Would you not consider this text? I think we should. No one claims that Dr. Anja Kopač's minister is responsible for all of this. She's a minister. And she is irrefutablely responsible for all of this. At least objectively. As Minister in charge of this department. The task of being responsible as such is to take responsibility or not. The personal income received by any minister of any department shall cover a certain amount of salary for the job, as that is the responsibility. This responsibility is paid. And this responsibility is now under trial. Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak and Social Democrats (SD) checked the support of the coalition partners Desus and SMC at the time of the intervention announced by the Slovenian Democratic Party (SDS). Desus’s support “sold” for EUR 20 million to pay for the reconciliation of pensions. It's a classic act of corruption. Publicly, in front of the cameras, in broad daylight, the Foreign Minister of our country spoke about the matter. Whether the SMC requested anything in exchange for support is unknown. However, I believe that in the event that the Constitutional Court finds irregularities in the case of Brglez, the SD Group will vote in favour of him. A hand can do it? Where is the Anti-Corruption Commission? Where is the will of the people? The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, General Provisions, Article 3: "In Slovenia, the people have authority." Really? Too many people suffer. Not by your own fault. Too many people are excluded. In the name of recession and later rationalisation we received some 60-70 thousand new unemployed on 60,000 basis. In Slovenia there are increasing numbers of people who have taken their lives because in all this misery and hopelessness they have no longer seen a way out. Victims of social exclusion. Victims of a poor social system that does not protect this situation in individuals. The poor are generally left to themselves, social assistance, regular and extraordinary, proven not to cover the basic cost of living. Without the help of various Botrs and UPs, there'd be a lot of people on the road, or he'd take his own life. Does "social and legal state" mean that you have permanent freedom to enter charities? What if all the Botri UPs, the Karitas, the Anna stars, the Red Cross, and who else decides to be group strikers? Every day seems more like a poor victim of the minister's career. Although the successful career of Anja Kopač Dark is more important than the important lives and fate of the poor and excluded. What kind of man puts his career ahead of the fate of all these poor and disfellowshipped people? How long can someone take how many bodies he leaves behind to test himself if he's suitable for a minister of social affairs? How many victims are allowed before someone says "sufficient"? How many days, weeks, months, or even years? Poor people don't have much. Some days. Anya Digger Dark, shame on you. Shame, because with all the criticisms that people on the Internet and elsewhere express on your account, you don't get all the empathy to show at least a little compassion for the suffering. Shame on you, because you also receive (over)high wages from these people every month, but you obviously do not deserve it.” Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that this letter or this matter that I have read — this text and the previous one written by Mrs Romana Tomc — is enough to make it practically difficult for you to add anything at the conclusion of this debate. The fact is, we asked that we did everything we could to get the right answers to our interpretation, but that was not the case, nothing happened. What you have agreed from now on in the coalition is that you would rather keep the coalition and this government, rather than take the appropriate and competent decisions that would be necessary to ensure that the situation at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is resolved, improved and that the Ministry can indeed say that the Ministry manages its role in the interest of the Slovenian people – the poorest and those who need assistance. That is why I do not think that we will receive these answers today and it is sad that we have such a minister, it is sad that the coalition is defending her and it is sad that in this society, because of the personal interests of certain structures, you cannot achieve anything. And it was very clear in this text that the Minister played an important role in this government. She is not as important a SD client as a minister, because the SD has its own garden right in this subsystem and here draws its electorate and electorate and, of course, the question is, where is all this money going in this system, the social system? And I think this should be a very important question for other coalition Members and Members and Partners, in order to ask ourselves a few questions, "have we really questioned," – what I read here earlier – “that socialism has become the property of the Social Democrats”? I think it's unacceptable, it's distasteful, and here are the circuits that are closed and here money can be spent just as it comes to mind. There is no law here. This does not apply to any state of law and nothing. And I think it's absolutely necessary to cut it, because otherwise these things will continue. And you saw, so today it was also said that only one such problem escalated. I think a similar problem has escalated on the Saturday of Murski because I think I even wrote one article about it and so on, and that these problems are a lot. But they're hidden. But they're hidden and they don't come to us. Some come because people are heroes because they hope to appear in public and say their rights have been violated. And this time it is clear to the court, so the Supreme Court, by its decision, has proved that this is the case. And I think if anyone makes fun of or laughs or laughs at him right now, there's something wrong with him. Very. There's something very wrong with not being aware of the seriousness of this situation. Because she's not aware of the seriousness of this situation. If we have spoken and said many times that a child is our greatest wealth, then in such situations, when children's rights are violated, I am sure that, according to my assessment, and the rights of old parents through this illegal act, we should react accordingly. But obviously, for coalition and government, words are one thing, when it comes to concrete solutions, concrete actions, which should point out that it is not just speech, that we are also concerned with concrete measures that should follow these words, but nothing. This is a truly sad story, which I am extremely disappointed about, and I am very sad that it is. I assumed that at least SMC's party would be the one to say, "Look, this is where things went too far." And it is not essential for us to remain in position, but it is crucial for us to see how things are going or are going legally or are going in line with those rules – ethical, moral ones spoken of by the Prime Minister of the Government and of which the current Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar, also spoke during the pre-election campaign. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have already said this in the view that we will support this interpretation. But I will be very sad, and I think that history, or in the future, will be sufficiently eloquent to show that those who support the Minister today are doing a bear service to themselves and to her. You and me and her. And I'm also sure that the next election will really show who is who. Despite the fact that the electoral campaign is already in progress, I think people will decide for those who stand on their line who do what they promise and do what they defend. And certainly not on the side of those which are great words, but of the works which are of nowhere. We had a similar case in health care; now that the proposed health reform should be up to 12, none of this and none of it has gone missing, and the SMC as the most powerful party has covered the minister without any problem. A similar case, as in this case of the Korean boys, because the Minister covered this story, which happened in social work centres where things did not happen, that I did not speak transparently, illegally and so on, because it was very clear from what the court had adopted that constitutional rights had been violated. And I think this is a reason enough to make those who have the opportunity and who have the exercise in their hands, but this time only have to react honestly, accountable to their citizens and citizens. And two thirds of your term of office is in power when you do that, I don't know. Or when you're not in Parliament or when. [[advertising from the hall]] And, dear fellow, I listened to you, Jani, now that you've been loud again, when you've been reading your "scite," you've left this hall, and you haven't even finished saying the last sentence, you've already flown through the door. And the last time you tried to talk to me about it and it's sad and unfair and it doesn't make any sense, it's pointless to discuss it. [[…]] [[...]] It's just that each one does his own thing. But it is true that provocation is provocation. But well, look, he stays on the matter. I think once again and ask you to support this interpretation today, because I think it is fully and very qualitatively justified. And if you have any conscience and if you're interested in the youngest and the family, we should support this interpretation today, because at the Ministry of Labour and Family, we need someone else. Madam Minister doesn't have it from me, and I don't support it anymore, and I can't support it, because it seems to me that this is all that has happened in this time and also in the past – but I haven't talked much about history before – it was too wrong for me to sit in this position as it is sitting. But it only harms this coalition, our citizens and citizens and this government. And before you know it, it will be more useful for you to do what you say before the elections, that you will do, in the interests of citizens and citizens, and in particular those of our youngest citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, unfortunately for my colleague Jani, I will now conclude, I will not speak to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	Mr. Franz Jurša, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	This is not my custom or my custom, but this time I had to react. I expected, Madam Vice President, that you would react. You should warn your colleague, Mr Pojbič, that he should not offend his fellow Members, even though they belong to the other party or to the other political option. What I was told is literally a pity. You know, there's never in my habit of slapping a bunch of MPs on the left or on the right. I never do that, and I don't slap individuals. That's what I'd say. In this debate, I have referred to all the governments behind me and I have warned that this should be done by the ones to come forward. And the government, which did not give a single cent of pension coordination in 2012, is the government in which the minister of SDS had the floor. One euro was not for the coordination of pensions. Well, if we're talking about candy, dear fellow Marianne, you know, you were a Member then, in 2008 the most candy was given. No government before and no government later gave out as many candy bars as that government did. And here's another question I'd like to ask my colleague Marian. Please tell me, Comrade Marian, what is a human ethical sense?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. I understand your message, and I believe that Mr Pojbič, who is also raising his hand and asking for procedural assistance. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich, the word is yours, the replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Pojbich. Will you proceed with the procedure? No, no, no. Mr Pojbič procedurally and then Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr Vice President. First of all, I'm just procedurally saying that I very well understood Franco Jursha, what he was going to say with this, and at the same time, I'm saying that I didn't hurt anyone, but if I say what I mean, it can't be wrong. And if anyone knows himself within a matter that I have insulted him as a person, I think that this is a big mistake and that I have not had that purpose and it was certainly not detectable from my debate that someone in this way has seen himself in some story. I just said and I think it's very right that Desus was in every government and the fact is that in every government she had the opportunity to decide how money will be shared in the budget and whether or not she will give money for the reconciliation of pensions. And one more thing. In 2012, Mr Jurša was talking about almost 8% of negative economic growth, and I would ask Mr Jurša to say what the state of the country was at the same time, and that public finances, including citizens and citizens, had to be saved, and in particular that they could also obtain their pensions at the end of the month. That was very important. And I had nothing at the time against finding a way for pensioners to get their pension every month in the future, and I think that we all worked together in this context. So are you and your parliamentary group, and so are we, who were sitting in Parliament at the time. And thank God we did everything that was necessary for the country to still exist today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	Okay, Mr Jurša, Mr Pojbič, Mr Möderndorfer, if you don't mind, I would like to give my word to Mr Horvath. Okay? Here we go. We have the last debater. Is there one of you who insists? Mr. Möderndorfer, you insist, please. What do you want – a procedural or a replica? Here, you have a replica; it's procedurally advantageous, so I gave the two of them a word first, I believe you understand. You have a replica. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I give you my word, Mr. Möderndorfer, you have a replica if you want. You have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	Vice President, it's very unusual, but okay, everything's unusual. Of course, Mr Pojbych didn't understand me, that's a fact. I admit it, but I'm going to say very loudly: I didn't understand you either, mate, I didn't understand you at all, I didn't understand you. But I don't have a clear word, and I'll be happy once you explain it to me, and that's "the history of the future," what does that mean? I don't even know what that means. I'll be happy when you explain it to me and then we can maybe reason or, I'll say, in-depth debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u117	Anyone else? Mr. Jursha or do I give you my word? [[…]] Here you go. A replica or a procedural one, Mr. Jurša?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u118	It's a replica. Since colleague Marian said he didn't mention me, I'll say this: a magnetogram needs to be looked at, and of course I'll remind you that, I think you said twice, "Jursha, as much as you said today, I can't believe this," in this sense. But, you know, I've been discussing bad 9 minutes or 10 minutes, and you've been discussing 30. And I have to tell you, you said twice as much as I did.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u119	Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, what is going on is not much to do with the agenda. It's not much. You're busy now, who said something and who meant something. We are interested in questions previously addressed to the Ministry and there are no answers, and I think there have been 15 questions raised again. We expected Susana Lepi Šimenka to repeat, on behalf of the proposer, questions addressed exclusively to the Minister for the fifth or seventh time, and there are no answers. That's what we expect. All of this, all of this folklore that has now happened, is essentially linked to focusing attention on things that are not the foundation. If you wish, Mr President or Vice-President, to hold a debate in the future, we will also work with pleasure. Sunday, if necessary. We'll be there on January 2nd, if necessary. But what you want to do, prepare, invest, we will actively participate in these things. Now, too, if you would like to address one pious wish to the Minister to finally answer what we have asked her as relevant questions at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr Tanko, for your opinion and also Mrs Minister will have the floor, but first we must get to Dr. Horvath, who I am just giving him the floor to. Mr Mitja Horvat, as the last discusser in this regular part, you have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! By the way, if I react to the last thing that's been said. Mr Tanko, this has happened because your Members did not understand your instructions to stick to the agenda today. I believe that the Minister herself will answer the fundamental questions raised at this interpretation, where I have to commend you again, you are making progress from interpolation to interpolation every day, and each time is better than the previous one. So I have to start slightly differently, that only in nuances are certain things that I do not really understand, and I believe that the distinguished representative of the applicants will do so below, before or after the Minister has answered the questions raised during today's debate on Namreč, on which do you base your statement or position for disproportionate intervention? [[...]] That's my question back. What was the disproportionateity of this intervention you were reading to the minister? I don't have a problem with another one, and I understand you've taken a stand with your old parents. This is a right that the Supreme Court has also exercised in its judgment, which is correctly stated, and I am afraid that there have been some tense interpretations of this basic fact. In fact, to report to the Minister that she did not point out the previous situation is something that also comes from the Supreme Court’s judgment – it was simply not possible. That the Ministry may have acted awkwardly in this case, the reasons for this are only on the Ministry's side and the Ministry alone will be able to answer these questions, of course. [[…]] It is not my intention to act as a lawyer here, because I believe that is not necessary, because the Minister knows her views and conduct well. So, of course, let us stay here, where it is very important: on the one hand, old parents, their right and on the other hand, children. This is also why we have had a lot of data that we have today in protected form and, of course, we cannot and should not discuss in public the open part of the debate. I believe, as I have believed in previous interpretations, as I have already explained in the public that there are legitimate reasons why the interests of child protection required and important that the Centre for Social Work and that the Ministry reacted and decided as it has decided. The legal path itself and the evidence that it was illegal — in this work I have to correct, because the last time I had a previous interpretation, I could afford it today. A two-month deadline is an instructional deadline. We expect the Ministry to decide the matter immediately, and not later than two months. There would obviously be no more than two interpretations; if it were a simple case, two months could and should be sufficient for the Ministry to decide on the matter itself. However, this does not mean that the Ministry cannot decide and, as we know, the Ministry has also decided on the matter itself, which has been limited by the Supreme Court in its decision and, of course, has not been able to decide on the establishment of the previous situation. Simply because this is the subject of another procedure, it is not linked to this procedure, where violations of the rights of old parents have been detected. That is why it is actually very interesting for us all who have been preparing for this meeting and who, of course, should also follow and get explanations from the minister – not in complete detail, but as is very common for us – on the one hand, we have special protection of children, in these cases even very wounded, not only vulnerable children, and on the other hand, we have what we can see in the public eye, including the injured old mother and the old father. What's the matter? Were the decisions correct or not? In fact, I admire your enthusiasm that you hope to judge yourself, especially since I know what your values and your views are based on, the interests you represent. If I look a little more politically on the subject, it's pretty clear. We have before us a request that we have on the table again and again, on the agenda of the committees and also of the National Assembly. And also in this work, the minister beautifully predicted that even in the family code we expect that old parents will also have the right to care for their grandchildren, that they may naturally have them in their family relationships, and that they will also bear full responsibility for their upbringing and care. Since this is the subject of some later discussion, I will stop here and, of course, then tell you what I think about such a proposal. But simply, we have before us, and I doubt that it is only an issue of interpretation against the Minister that the Minister would, after all, be as disturbing as the representatives and other motioners have expressed in the debate today regarding the Minister. It is certainly a very demanding resort, a very demanding resort in particular in the situation, as my colleague Jurš spoke well before me about it. Very difficult situations in which we need to react easily. As you know, in the Modern Centre Party, we constantly refer to the Minister, the Ministry, to the Government about how we will resolve the issues. Questions that are based on the social state. I believe that we have some solutions on the table to answer these basic questions in our society. How can we provide for those who are not happy enough to be in the part where they can care for themselves? How can they make sure that within the mechanisms, within, after all, budgetary resources, as has already been mentioned many times today, including the substantial budgetary resources available to the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities to reach those in need? Here I sign every word you have spoken in this area. This is what I really expect, and this is one of my own – if Mr Tanko said before that I should also say – a pious wish that the Ministry would do anything to ensure that the funds for people come to people. I believe there are still stocks, I believe there are enough challenges, and I believe that this is something that we like to call domestic reserves in the economy. I believe that there is no need in the Republic of Slovenia to have people living below the poverty line. I believe there is no need for anyone in the Republic of Slovenia to be hungry. Of course, it is our job to find these people, to find mechanisms and that the money that is intended for social affairs also comes to those who need help. To encourage, of course, those who are able to do what they want to do, to take care of themselves and, of course, to make those who make it easier, part of what they create, even for these purposes. This, of course, is hard work, hard work and our serious determination. Whether we will work for the good of people or people will end up there, as in Europe, there are more and more frequent ideas about people coming out there at the end, we must first take care of one bigger thing. You know what I'm saying, and I'm not gonna talk about it now. But if anything, the Modern Centre Party is, of course, trying to achieve a state in which everyone in the Republic of Slovenia would live a decent life. For what it's worth, we've entered politics to restore dignity. And here, of course, the Minister's request – there is no need to answer today because we have an interpellation before us with three basic points, so, of course, this part about social work centres operating on the basis of public authority and on the functioning of which you are watching, the happy hand in the reorganisation that you are preparing – should be burdened with administrative work, accounting, to deal with what they were meant to do when we established them in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia to be able to detect and help people. But we give money to those who need help. And as far as interpolation is concerned, I don't know what the responsibility is in politicizing social work centres.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much to all the discussers. Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Following Mr Horvath's New Year's wishes, I would only remind him of something, and I want him to answer me, otherwise to apologize. He stated that the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party had not talked about the content. Please take a look at the magnetogram, you can also interrupt the meeting and see what Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been talking about. It is also the fact that a Member is turning this Council or that Parliament is wrong. He asks the opposition what we wrote in the interpellation, while praising the Minister, who has not answered one of our questions. Mr Horvat, I think it would be much better if someone put in an interpolation to get answers for that. And one more thing. True, you said the values in this National Assembly were very different. Ours are actually very different. It is for me that the Supreme Court finds human rights violations, a serious matter, and I cannot support it, you can. For me, someone at a press conference is involved and has no authority to look at the personal data of the children you've exposed, and these families, it's a very serious violation for me, it's not for you. Here, too, our values are very, very different. The fact is that the person who ran the Centre for Social Work is an active member of the SD and has already been transferred to another job after he resigned; this is not worth it to me either. It's obviously for you. In short, there is a very large difference between our values. I only hope that the values you are defending today will not really prevail in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I note from the SMC Group that there is no more time to discuss, so if you agree, I would continue my work and conclude this part, the regular part of the debate. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister and the representative of the interpellationary proposer will be given the floor. First he gets the word of Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. From nine to now, I will not even count, I can see that I agree with the interpellationers on two possibly important points. The first is that it is the key benefit of the child and that it is the key leader of all state authorities, including me personally, and I assure you, the child's benefit. Another such important point that has been raised today is that legal judgments must also be respected and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first marriage, when I was a minister, I swear I was in March, 23. 5. In 2013, Alenka Bratušek’s government then passed the law — or at the time it was already adopted by the National Assembly — which means that the first law we drafted at the Ministry was a technical law that repealed the unconstitutional provisions of Zujf. If you remember, dear Members of the SDS, then you and Zujf reached out to the pensions of one of the categories; you took the pension in an unconstitutional way overnight to 26 thousand people. And the first law I passed as Minister of Labour, which was adopted by the then government, was just that. Because the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. Secondly, we have worked immeasurably to recognize the human rights of all, and your party on some of the most painful subjects of our history, probably in common – whether they are deleted then, if we look at them, the same-sex issues – has been inflammatoryly opposed. And also yes, even in the case of the judgment you are talking about today and in the introduction, I respect the Supreme Court's decision. On the other hand, it must be made clear that the Supreme Court, which could not, did not decide that children should be returned immediately to the home of their grandparents, could decide. At the same time, you are asking me to ensure that the children return to their grandparents immediately. Otherwise, I do not know which country we live in; please tell me under which article I have this power to do so, even though the Supreme Court has not done so. The fact is that the court ruled in this judgment on the rights of grandparents to family life and stated that there was an excessive interference with their rights. On the other hand, the Supreme Court in its judgment has made it very clear several times that it has not identified any violations of children's rights or their benefits. The competence of a specific decision to intervene in the right to family life is a constitutional value which cannot be absolute when, in the circumstances of an individual case, it is necessary to give priority to the principle of the greatest benefit of the child in respect of his or her personal dignity and other human rights. The fact is, with regard to interpretation, second in line, most things are the same as they were in June. That's when you got a comprehensive answer, and then I answered every question you asked. Today I answer you in the introduction, now I answer you, but because – I have a feeling about all of this when I hear that we live in two different countries. If only a few of those inserts. You say that social work centres are the bodies of the Ministry and that, of course, is why I have to intervene. The written explanation repeatedly states that social work centres are independent public welfare institutions and are not an organ in the body. It's not the police. It's not an inspection. Also, you won't believe it, and I can't say to the social inspector in a specific case, "so you'll decide, that's how you'll do it." Second. We've heard that even representatives of social work centres speak to cover for the boss. We say that it is certainly better for them to children and judge what the child’s benefit is and where it is better for someone. [[…]] I just don't live and I don't want to live in a country where the boss is covered by your logic, where in some way you believe that MPs and Members or maybe neighbors can decide on this and know what the greatest benefit of the child is, past the decisions of the court, past the social work centres that are competent to judge what is in the child's favour. And yes, we live in a country where every possibility has legal protection and the courts decide on this matter. And no, more – you want me to explain all of this to you, even though you have everything written down. And what is that other than a show?Oh, my God! You want me to explain, despite the fact that you know and that I have repeatedly said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has asked me to be expelled because of the legality and regularity of the proceedings, because I would not have done so, because I would have said a comma too much in the National Assembly as a politician, which is why all the judgments fell. Yeah, that's legality and regularity, but you're always asking me to define myself to explain. And if we're talking about, for example, basic institutes -- take away parental rights; more than once, in the introduction, I explained, now again. Why wasn't parental rights revoked? I don't know, do you know what was going on? Maybe she was temporarily taken from her father. Do you know all this?Oh, my God! How do you know all this?Oh, my God! And who, or are you who will judge? No, that's the court's judgment. And the court did not judge the confiscation of parental rights, and even the initiative was given to decide. He's the custodian, you're saying it was a mistake because the guardians weren't because she was supposed to be grandparents. I don't know, but then at the same time you read that other part that talks, "unless it's for the child's benefit", and then, "the social work centre decides otherwise." Yeah, he must have made a different decision. But you have it all written down, but no, it's always the same thing over and over again. You're basically taking responsibility for the events that took place most of the time before I or the Ministry was aware of it. Yeah, 25. 3. The grandmother sent a letter and the ministry asked CSD for an explanation. That's what we got. 31. Three, thirty. Children Were Taken Out of kindergarten, 1 / 1 4. I requested, in fact on this basis, to issue an application if the social inspection can verify the procedures. Secondly, the power to protect the benefit of children in family matters is vested in social work centres which are independent in the management of administrative procedures. The decisions of the centres shall be taken by the Directors. Third time. The Minister is responsible for the functioning of the system as a whole, but has no right to arbitrarily interfere with the procedures led by social work centres. In a specific procedure, the government expelled me. Fourth time. In a specific case, it was to protect the benefit of children and not adults. No procedure has yet shown that the centre has not followed the best interests of children in its conduct. The benefits and rights of children must always be before the benefits and rights of adults. The benefits of both, unfortunately, are not always consistent. And the fifth time. Procedures, both administrative and judicial, on a specific case are largely ongoing and are not completed. The use of concrete procedures to protect the benefit of two children at a stage where there are still more questions than answers in order to achieve political objectives – I still say that this is political manipulation. You asked what was done in the interim. Nevertheless, perhaps again: Today the government has adopted a family code. In the National Assembly you have adopted the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, on Monday you will adopt a law on social security benefits that will substantially change in the area of monetary social assistance, a protective allowance. In the public debate there is a package of three laws, the Labour Relations Act, the Labour Inspection Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act. The law on the representativeness of trade unions is also awaiting coordination with employers and the drafting of a law on the representativeness of employers' organisations. The following week, the rules of the Economic and Social Council will be adopted, which will change for the first time in 22 years since we have the Economic and Social Council in our country. 15 multi-generation centres will be selected shortly this month. Reorganisation, the law will be passed next week in public debate. Yes, fellow Members, the opposition's proponents, all of this has been done since June, when I advocated the systemic nature of the measures that are in this broader area of the ministry, and I am always prepared to explain, every detail of the particular case. But I don't dare to discuss the benefits of children, and I don't want to discuss what the greatest benefit of a child is, because I believe it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u127	The text shall be delivered by the representative of the interpellation proposer, Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Well, hello again, probably the last time or not. Social work centres are not bodies within the Ministry. I didn't say that myself as a proponent. However, I said that the social inspection is indirect, under the inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, the body in the composition of the Ministry. That's what I said. I've said it a couple of times. Dear Minister, I believe that this interpretation was necessary today, reinterpelling, because of the same case. That in the meantime there was further argument and confirmation of what we had already pointed out in the first interpolation. On 19 October, the Supreme Court judgment was publicly published. Dear Minister, what happened to the Supreme Court's judgment at the time? It was legally recognized that the abduction of children was illegal, legally binding, and that old parents were violated by the Constitution for human rights. Last but not least, when we know it's a violation of the Constitution of protected human rights, we know that in a normal country, the Minister would step down or call on the President of the Government to do so. But of course, the President of the Government did not do so, although he himself said before the first interpretation that certain aspects of objective responsibility could be detected here. But given what we have heard before the elections, how the principles of the rule of law have been highlighted, how the ethical, moral standards of this government will rise, and given the state of affairs today, of course this is no longer a surprise for us. Dear Minister, it's not just about what you've done. It is also about what you have not done and what you have left behind, and in fact you should do as a supporter of political functions, or what you have advocated. You're telling us the abuse of a specific case. Dear Minister, may I remind you, it was at the press conference on April 6th that you showed up to this case at a press conference. You were the one who put this case in public from a political point of view. So any saying that we abuse this position is completely incorrect. We as the opposition have acted responsibly and have used all the means we have to warn about these irregularities. I'm gonna go over some stuff one more time. Dear Minister, you haven't answered a single question. I can't explain it any different than you didn't have any argument about it. There was no fact that we could answer that, given that you took the time and said things that weren't the subject of today's interpretation. Taking the children away from their parents in the way they were carried out was inappropriate. No matter what we heard here today. The withdrawal was inappropriate, as the Ombudsman finally said. This could be the case when children would actually be at risk. Finally, the Supreme Court’s judgment stated that this measure was premature by the Centre for Social Work, so that we should wait first to decide on the right to foster old parents. And that wasn't within the legal time limit, and I've told you this many times today. The legal deadline is 60 days. The application for foster care was lodged on 27 January. This deadline expired on 27 March. And at that time, the Ministry should have given an answer to the role, and it didn't. You did this only after the legal deadline, and after all, I will say, a little more than obvious public pressure, and also after that famous press conference where, by the way, there was a social inspector with you, and there was also a person with you who had no basis at the time to be there at all. But that doesn't hurt if someone doesn't have a legal basis to be familiar with personal information, and you're reading some things to us here. We haven't abused this once, Your Honor, not once. But it was you who went as a political icon for the first time with this case in public. This was said to be the responsibility for the politicization of work at the Centre for Social Work. Many times it has been said that social work centres are, of course, independent, you have no influence on them. Yeah, of course not, but unfortunately it's not like that anymore, at least it's not like that when you're putting people at the same centers. And here is a specific example of the Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec; for the director who, after the results of the administrative inspection, has resigned, you have personally insisted that he has come to this post of Director, regardless of the fact that he has been exposed by the employees there, that he is not professionally qualified to fail to meet the conditions for his employment. You repeated the call, you provided the majority of the world's institutions, and you shelled it. But as already stressed here today, it was a political decision. And you scavengered a man who wasn't expertly qualified. And this has been shown further in the illegalities that have been committed. About the illegality of handling an application for foster care of an old parent who didn't turn it over to the Ministry, as he should have. I asked you how many such cases there are in Slovenia. I didn't get an answer. How many of these cases are there when you didn't get an application from the Ministry and the social work centres have voluntarily decided on child care? How many of these are there? You are an exceptional control of social inspection, which, of course, you have the opportunity and have taken advantage of, ordered on 1 April, you have also explained the procedure now. But you followed the opinion of the Social Inspectorate, regardless of whether you were aware that this social inspectorate was looking only at the report of the Velenje Centre for Social Work and did not ask the other side, that is, the old parents. You were familiar with this, but you didn't give it individual, more important weight. No, you went with that director to a press conference and wanted to hide things more or less than apparently politically. We just don't see another reason why that conference was convened. You had an expert who, according to the information authority, was supposed to be familiar with the documentation only orally. Yes, then how could she give a professional opinion? So re-absorbing. I kind of understand your problem, Your Honor. You have always advocated the view that you simply cannot afford old parents the right to family status, and I believe that the Supreme Court judgment in some way surprised you. Even though things were clear. This status has already been given. And the European Court of Human Rights recognised this and we have already talked about it here, including in real interpretation. Perhaps even more so will be the fact and statements in this judgment of the Management Board of the Community of Centres for Social Work, which expressed concern about this judgment and which said as follows: "When Velenje decided on the fate of boys, the legislation, the practice of administrative authorities and the case law were clear. According to the Supreme Court’s judgment, this is no longer the case.” So everything was clear before, because it was more than obvious that it was illegal, and now that the Supreme Court said so too, that is no longer the case. Illegality has been proven. Madam Minister, we have not received an answer to this question, but we have raised it several times. Political decisions – even in cases where you employ people in public institutions, which is now one of the reasons why more than obviously the party Desus will not support this interpretation, because obviously now you have agreed in June time, you had one open case in individual institutions – the responsibility for such political decisions should then be borne by the minister. If you're personally advocating that your people come to some places, it's absurd. You have to recruit professional people, because it is totally inappropriate for politics to overrun professionally in such cases as has happened here. And then it turns out in tragic cases like the case of the Korean boys. Since the political decision then resulted in the unlawful conduct of the Director, who was no longer an expert. And that was the result of everything else that followed. Indeed, the Director and the Centre for Social Work of Slovenia Gradec and the Centre for Social Work of Velenje have resigned. But the body, which belongs under your department's department of social inspection, is still there. And as you say, the centres for social work are independent, that you have no influence on them, of course, except we know that when it comes to staffing; you have a social inspection. How can you trust a social inspection that did not detect these irregularities were obvious? You've been warned about them on several sides. Last but not least, I believe you've read about it in the media, and some things have been exposed. I don't know, didn't you at least get a hint of doubt that you would trust this social inspection? I don't know, the question is, what's the role next? Do you still trust me today? What has changed after all these proven irregularities in this area? Dear Minister, social inspection is then the only thing you have in your hands that you can essentially order control of other organs acting alone. Do you not want this social inspection to work in such a way that such irregularities will no longer occur? Not anymore than obviously, because you haven't done anything in this area. I will summarise again – a number of irregularities have been committed here and it has been decided first by the Administrative Court and then by the Supreme Court. The way the children were taken was controversial. I don't know about parental rights, whatever you're re-exposing, it's obviously a constant practice. But someone who can't do it has to do things differently. The Centre for Social Work of Slovenj Gradec unlawfully dealt with the role for the foster care of the grandmother. The Centre for Social Work of Velenje did not have valid reasons for not giving children into foster care to old parents. He didn't have any. The child was not given a guardian, as was the case under article 182 of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, unless it is in the child's best interests. These are relatives. But you were with your parents for three months. If it weren't for the child's benefit, I believe the center would have acted differently from the beginning. It was about the human right to family life, and that's what's most important. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always warned of these many irregularities. The Minister did not respond to the Supreme Court, nor did the President of the Government, after having been confirmed first by the Administrative Court and finally by the Supreme Court. And that's why we thought it would be appropriate for the National Assembly to speak about it again. The National Assembly is the one who appoints the minister. And that's actually the only thing we have. And we as the opposition were obliged to do this because we are aware of the gravity of this irregularity that has occurred in this case. And let me stress that these proceedings would not have occurred unless there had been violations committed by the authorities of the Centre for Social Work and then overlooked the social inspection and so on. These proceedings would not have taken place at all. So you haven't answered a single question, Your Honor. We don't know what you've done in the meantime, what you've done, what you've drawn up, what you've done to eliminate this irregularity by the power of this judgment, because you said yourself, when the judgment is legally binding, you're going to do the right thing, but you're not. [[…]] We do not know how many similar cases there are in Slovenia. Neither did we get an answer or a social inspection as to how you picture its role forward and whether you continue to trust them, given that they now know that they have not identified certain irregularities. I must say that I may be the most surprised about all the debates because the debate was, I will say, quite a bit by the coalition Members. [[…]] I was, of course, most surprised by Desus' 360-degree plant, because in the field of social policy, what you have stressed so much has not happened much in the meantime. But it is true that it has already been exposed; obviously you are not concerned about illegality, you are not concerned about human rights violations, but you are concerned only about how you will put your people in individual places. We can call it political bargaining. This was the case with the first interpolation, and it is evident that this is the case today. I'm going to read again what I did at the beginning, because I very much agree with it, and I feel like I'm still in place. Dr. Barbara Rygelj, a lawyer, said of the evening: “The work of social work centres is certainly very difficult, responsible and sometimes without the right solution, but this is not an excuse for illegal activity. Even more, legal action can facilitate their work. Clear and predictable procedures and decision-making in a legally valid form and with a qualitative explanation facilitate the work of decision makers and enhance the legal security of users, so it is more incomprehensible that the executive authority, through the assistance of lawyers and public relations agencies, without the need to deny respect for human rights." I couldn't agree more with that. And I hope that at least someone among you will think about it. And also a statement by the esteemed Vera Trstenjak, who said: “The constitutional human rights were violated, what else should the minister prove?” And since there are a lot of lawyers here, there is another statement by the great lawyer d.D. Klemna Jakliča: “Fear those lawyers who remain silent when human rights are violated.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u129	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko and Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, please also report by pressing the microphone button. In this case they will be given the floor as the last, first the Minister and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In these five minutes, I wanted to say some differences between me and the former interior minister, who also experienced interpolation, and Mr Kopač Mrakovo – it is good that the Prime Minister is with us. Indeed, Mr Möderndorfer also spoke about those procedures in my absence. But look: when they lost their signatures for a referendum at the end of 2012 and when we did not explore anything here in Parliament and not in the interior ministry, I called the then President of the Government of Janša and said: "Look, this has happened, and where the signatures have been lost, I don't know, we will explore this with the President of the National Assembly, but whenever you think that I am therefore the interior minister of the problem, the problem involved, accept my resignation." I had a case taken over by the CSI, and she's been investigating it for a few years. Today, I can inform you that all proceedings in this regard have been completed both at the police and at the prosecution. No one's committed a crime. First of all, the information officer started off when the show went off, you won't believe it. And you can probably believe that Mrs Natasa Pirc Musar would not pry me, but at the time of the interpolation she said that she did not find anything wrong with me there at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. You won't believe it, Mr. Klemenčič went with fire and a sword to peel onions. And what did he find out? Nothing. He couldn't confirm that there was a mistake in the interior ministry. Moreover, the Public Service System Inspectorate has been involved and has found that they cannot blame the internal ministry. In short, today, 2016, there is no authority in this country, no institution to investigate it unless Mr Möderndorfer – there is now an open question. The difference with the Minister of Labour, Mr. President of the Government, is what? The Supreme Court confirmed it was illegal. The Supreme Court has confirmed this and you are still protecting her. See, that's the difference between me and her, see, so here's the problem. And that is also the difference between a responsible and ethical government and an irresponsible government that holds power at all costs. So this is the difference between you and some of the former Prime Minister. Given that Mr Möderndorfer still does not trust the institutions of this country that have investigated my case, and given that he has a lot of experience, he is also a smart man, especially having experience in moving from party to party, and if next time he does not come to Parliament, I suggest that he be transferred to Sherlock Holmes and goes to research signatures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u131	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u132	The President, of course, my proposal would be as follows: it would be nice to warn Mr Gorenak, for the first time, that we are at the intervention of the Minister of Labour and not of Mr Jani Möderndorfer – with me he is controversyising at a time when he knows that I cannot respond to him substantively. However, I can see that the interpretation touched him very much, that he suffered for three years after the interpolation and was looking for reasons where he had broken it, if not for his team. But the fact is, and you know, you weren't in the hall when I was talking and I answered one thing. In fact, you've seen that the Minister doesn't give any answers, and I've only shown on your case that I don't have an answer today after the interview, where they got lost from the National Assembly to the Ministry of the Interior, for which only you were responsible, the signatures. And that's the answer for me. In fact, unfortunately you're involved in this story, but you're lucky to be able to hide behind the fact that we'll never know that answer. And I suggest you, because you are an experienced Member, stop manipulating yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-14-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u133	We will not be giving a warning, but it was clear that this was such an abuse, as well as the other abuses of today’s procedural ones. We can hold the meeting without a warning, don't worry. We have concluded the debate on interpolation and are moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellators propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision following the debate: “The National Assembly, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives its non-trust to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak.” In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 20 for them and 53 for them. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 53.]] I note that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has not been voted on by Dr Anji Kopač Dark. This concludes this agenda item and ends the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
