ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Marija Bacič, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Marko Ferluga by 12 noon, mag. Alexander Kavčič by 1 p.m., Mr. Marjan Dolinšek by 1 p.m. and Mr. Franz Breznik. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Lands in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Agricultural land is natural goods, important for food production, environmental protection, preservation of cultural landscapes and rural settlements and the exercise of ecological functions. As the world's population is growing, food needs are also growing, which means that we need more agricultural land and better, more productive soil. Nevertheless, it is noted that the size of agricultural land is steadily decreasing due to intensive construction and cultivation. It also reduces soil fertility, resulting from erosion, reduction of soil organic matter, deposition of soil and climate change. Most of these phenomena are due to the actions of a man who has treated soil in the past as an unlimited source. It has only recently taken over the realization that our behaviour needs to be changed because there is no real sustainable development without maintaining the quality of soil and agricultural land. Protecting agricultural land and soil is also important for ensuring one of the basic tasks of agriculture, namely ensuring an adequate level of self-sustainment and food security. There is also a change of law in this spirit. Let me list the main advantages or main gains. From the point of view of the local communities, it is important that the law will allow for a faster identification of permanently protected agricultural land by simplifying the professional basis for determining the areas of these permanently protected agricultural land within the framework of the municipal spatial plan. If the local community so decides and determines in the municipal spatial plans, it will allow all agricultural land to build certain buildings, which have not yet been allowed in the applicable law, but are essential for the agricultural economies and local communities. For example, beekeeper, stables, research into specific water, mineral raw materials, geothermal energy source, access to a facility which is compatible with a spatial act and so on. We have tried to follow the proposals of local communities as much as possible in these changes. The local community will be able to allow the construction of simple and non-requisitive agricultural forestry facilities on permanently protected agricultural land, in addition to those already eligible. However, on all agricultural land, and what is important in terms of farmers, it will be possible to plan agricultural facilities without prior modification of the intended use, by drawing up a municipal detailed spatial plan. The full relocation of agricultural holdings will also be planned within the framework of the OPPN, with first obtaining a valid permit for an economic facility and only then will it be possible to obtain a building permit for the relocation or construction of a housing facility. This is an important gain for farms and also for local communities, where it is the desire for farms to move from urban areas. Certain parts of the legal approval procedure are also being simplified. And if I touch on changes in agromeliorations and ground operations, the possibility of transferring irrigation or state irrigation systems to local communities is introduced in the area of irrigation and drying. If they have no interest in you, it is possible to transfer to the irrigation cooperative. However, I stress that this is a possibility of transposition. If the local community or cooperative interests after the transfer of the desiccant system or the state irrigation system fail to show evidence, these systems shall remain state-owned and shall be the subject of a public management and maintenance service managed by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. Let me conclude that the Ministry is aware of the need for other amendments to the law, in particular with regard to the transport of agricultural land. In preparing the professional basis for the reform of this part of the law, we have already approached and are planning a change in this area next year. Allow me, however, to ask for your support for these changes and, finally, subject to the rules of procedure, to propose that the National Assembly also carry out the third reading of this Act at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u4	Dear President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! At its 14th meeting on 10 March this year, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposed amendment to the law as a work force. On the proposal for a law, the Committee also held a public presentation on 25 February on the proposal of the SDS Group, which was intended to obtain an opinion and position on the proposed legal solutions to the professional and general public. Members of the coalition group have tabled amendments to the proposed law within the time limit of business, taking into account, in particular, some of the comments contained in the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Joint Left Group. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. By the end of the deadline, the National Assembly had received 7 opinions in which local communities pointed out that some of the proposed ones imposed additional tasks and obligations on local communities, in particular financial ones, but for which no appropriate solutions were envisaged. They therefore object to such transfers and to increasing the scope of the tasks. In particular, it is an obligation to produce professional foundations and laboratories, to evaluate land in areas of permanently protected agricultural land, which will result in additional costs for local communities and, in particular, to extend the adoption of municipal spatial plans significantly. The Director of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia also took part in the discussion, which supports the proposal of the law by expressing the uniform belief that the strategic definitions of these areas should be in the content of the law and not only in the law when considering the regulation on permanently protected agricultural land. In the debate, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups stressed that they do not support the bill because it brings only partial solutions and non-life solutions, solves nothing, and strongly interferes with spatial legislation, which is only more complicated by the proposed solutions in this law and by the powers of local communities. There is a fear that in time when new spatial legislation will be introduced into the legislative process, the solutions adopted from the proposed amendment of the law will need to be repealed because they will be contrary to spatial law. The Coalition Members, however, stressed the positive solutions brought by the amendment of the law, which they considered to be primarily addressing three important segments, namely the possibility of planned agricultural facilities directly intended for agricultural activities on agricultural land with a municipal detailed spatial plan, the speedy establishment of permanently protected land, and their systematic approach to the regulation of irrigation is crucial, in particular by adapting the existing situation in the field of drying and irrigation of agricultural land. In the discussion on individual articles, particular attention was paid to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 8, which adds the provision that a person who is not the owner of the lease or other user of the agricultural land shall use agricultural land on his own account. With regard to this amendment, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service warned that this was a new substance which does not fall under Article 7 of the Basic Law. According to the SPS, the proposed provision is problematic because it is not clear its legal purpose nor its relationship to the system regime of compensation law, but is even misleading in its content, since it cannot and must not entail automatic and general exclusion of compensation liability. In their view, it is unacceptable to exclude pre-compensation liability for all potential adverse events. Moreover, in their view, the proposed solution does not essentially constitute a solution, but rather a problem both for the case law, because it is not clear the legal meaning of such a provision nor does it clearly refer to the fundamental regulation of compensation law further for the owners of those lands, since it is misleading given that it cannot automatically exclude compensation liability. The discussion also focused on the provision of Article 3 which allows the construction of small wind power plants, nominal power up to one megawatt if agricultural land with a rating of less than 35. In the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left was proposed to delete this Article. The Committee voted on the proposed amendment and did not adopt it. The Committee has identified itself to the amendments tabled and the decisions are reflected in the report of the Committee. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the texts of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, are prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u6	Dear President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! For agriculture as an economic activity, the best agricultural land represents the production product of the highest value, allowing under conditions of sustainable development the greatest opportunity to increase the competitiveness of agricultural production. The current legislation on agricultural land management has in many respects become obsolete as it comes from 2011. We are therefore considering today the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act, which brings about changes in some important areas. The proposed changes are based on adequate protection of agricultural land and sustainable development principles. If we focus on the most important changes followed by the law. The first is the extension of the possibility of planning agricultural buildings which are directly intended for agricultural activities on agricultural land with a municipal detailed spatial plan. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the extension of the building set is mainly due to the fact that all those engaged in agricultural activities should be allowed to maintain or further improve their activities. The local community has also been given the opportunity to lay down stricter conditions as regards the required areas of agricultural land. The municipality is given the opportunity to lay down additional conditions and criteria to be met by the investor for the construction of all buildings which are allowed to be built on agricultural land. The next extremely important change is followed by a faster establishment of permanently protected agricultural land. Simplification is established in the preparation of professional bases, which will have to be prepared only in cases where the agricultural use is subject to change. The third segment is linked to melioration, which is to adapt to the existing situation in the field of drying and irrigation of agricultural land. The area of land operations is outdated and does not regulate all situations that occur on the ground. The main shortcomings of existing arrangements could certainly include poor use of irrigation systems, inadequate provision of means to operate and maintain large irrigation systems and so on. We are therefore in the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to amend the bill in order to remove many unnecessary administrative obstacles, for example, one of these also refers to the extension or addition of exceptions where the approval of the legal business is not necessary, but means the decommissioning of administrative units and the reduction of the procedures in question, and the parties are also burdened in the process. We are confident that the changes introduced by the amendment of the law will have positive effects on local communities as well as food producers as they allow, inter alia, faster procedures for the spatial placement of agricultural production facilities at a time when it is necessary to adapt intensively to the market or to consumers of Slovenian agriculture. On the basis of all the above, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u8	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! We will not support additions and amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that the amendments and additions to this law are inconsistent with local communities and have a strong impact on the functioning of local communities. This is a permanent protected agricultural land, estimated to be about 350,000 out of 477 thousand. Let me mention that the vast majority of these agricultural land is within the OMD, it is said, in areas with limited farming factors, and it will be difficult to determine which agricultural land these large majority will be. This permanently protected agricultural land is to be placed in municipal spatial plans. This law simplifies professional grounds, which we believe are very important, which land will be identified and where no intervention will be allowed, except for agricultural activities, and also state projects should not be placed on these land. This will cause the municipalities a great deal of difficulty in adopting the UNO. We want to know who will find out how this will convince the congregation authorities, such as the congregation council, that they will be brought into their congregational space plan and so on. I think there is a need for more analysis and more expertise and thorough analysis in advance to protect all these 350 thousand hectares of agricultural land in this way. Others are irrigation systems that the state will essentially want to dispose of and give to municipalities as their public economic service. In the end, it was only possible for the congregation to take over as a public economic service. We don't think it belongs at all. The material says we have a public irrigation system and state irrigation systems. Public irrigation systems can only be municipal or state systems, not one or the other. We feel that this is not an option because many of these irrigation systems are outdated, inactive, and in no way can we place this in some way at the burden of the congregation. It is also an intervention in agricultural land for the construction of agricultural buildings, where the law stipulates that the municipal detailed spatial plan should change the basic purpose, which is contrary to spatial legislation. A detailed spatial plan can only set out a more detailed purpose-based use and in no way alter the basic intended use on agricultural land, as any such change must later be placed in the first amendment to the OPN. What if it is not changed and the buildings will be built, building permits obtained? Given that a thorough change of spatial legislation is being prepared within six months, we will have it on the benches, I think that we should wait and put all these changes into spatial legislation in order to be regulated in one place in the roof law, this is in the law on the regulation of space following a new, old-fashioned CFSP plan, and then only to go into sectoral changes and put certain changes into sectoral laws. In addition, the coalition is expected to prepare a systematic amendment of this law within one year. Then why are we in a hurry? I am confident that in the UNP, permanently protected agricultural land will not be placed in one year or significantly later. Otherwise, the law brings some changes, some elimination of administrative obstacles, but there is no reason for us to adopt it in such a form. Therefore, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Ivan Škodnik, who gave us a feast in personal-made baskets he made himself, and thank you very much. Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act. Finally, we could say that we are awaiting the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Lands. We're dealing with a relatively extensive law, but I'm not going to go into any particular detail. In short, let me just say that in our Desus Group we assess that the bill is suitable for support primarily on the basis of three key reasons. The first reason is that the proposal of the law offers the possibility of planning agricultural facilities directly intended for agricultural activities on agricultural land, namely the municipal detailed spatial plan. The second reason that we believe is of paramount importance is the faster establishment of permanently protected agricultural land. We estimate that there are between 300 and 350 hectares of agricultural land in our country. It is also an important, third reason, to regulate a systematic approach to melioration, in particular in order to adapt to the existing situation in the field of drying and irrigation of agricultural land and thus also to harmonise other legislation. The general initiator of the debate on the proposal for the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act was also concerned that a weekend can be made of an agricultural facility or, as our fellow Member has stated in the debate on the home committee, a goat can become a holiday house. Throughout the entire debate, we were asked whether that is true or not. We cannot deny that this proposal actually expands the range of agricultural facilities that will be allowed to be built on agricultural land without a change of purpose of use. Given that space management experts have also expressed concern that such regulation, as this proposal of the law, creates a new marriage gap for the growth of the underprivileged, let's say, weekends. However, as the new spatial legislation is not yet in sight, part of this area has been regulated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is also responsible for development and especially for the existence of agriculture, so as a positive assessment of the fact that both ministries have agreed that, pending the adoption of the new spatial legislation, there remains content on the construction of agricultural land in the Agricultural Lands Act. However, once spatial legislation is adopted, the provisions of this law will be deleted, which, somehow, can be said to disturb us. According to our assessment, we have also taken these provisions to the farmers and agricultural organisations. I must say that this bill is agreed by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Community of Slovenian municipalities and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia. Our Group would like to draw attention to two other important solutions to this proposal. One is a provision that allows the construction of small wind power plants, with which we have great problems only in our country. The novelty allows for land construction, which are for the purpose of agricultural land, to be valued at less than 35, but only if the spatial act of the local community so provides. This allows local communities to lay down additional conditions and criteria to be met by an investor for the construction of agricultural land, i.e. small wind power plants. The second solution is the introduction of a provision stipulating that persons who are not owners or leasers of agricultural land use agricultural land at their own risk, i.e. bikers, mushrooms and forest fruit collectors and other forest land users. This has also led us to oppose farmers concerned by possible lawsuits by their land users, as well as those users, as landowners are encouraged to allow a normal transition through their property. So, as it is said, the bill we have on the table is supported by the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u11	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in which we will also support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands in this consideration. We believe that the Ministry has prepared a very good proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act, which mainly responds to extremely difficult climate conditions and, finally, to a very difficult situation on the market, which also requires very fast adaptation of Slovenian agriculture to these conditions. Raising the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture is certainly one of the priorities, but it is not easy for Slovenia, as we face very different conditions for farming in different regions. Slovenia is a wonderful country, and this configuration of the field and nature are also those that need to be taken into account in planning the development of agriculture. It is therefore extremely important to emphasise that this process is involved to a greater extent than has been possible under the previous law, by adopting spatial acts that are crucial to whether we can also respond in the field of agriculture in a very short time to the needs of more competitive market performance, in particular because of the investments that are urgently needed in order to follow new technological needs and knowledge. At the same time, of course, it also allows for the concrete integration of such local communities not only by the State, but also by private individuals, if there is a need for more efficient management and the establishment of desiccant systems and irrigation systems. This is what has been the subject of much debate in the last period, how to get to a higher level of operation of both irrigation and desiccant systems and thus respond to these difficult climate conditions that we have been facing in the last period. However, it is very important to simplify the process that is linked to the marketing of agricultural land, as well as to the comassations and procedures that allow land consolidation and, of course, to increase the competitiveness of our farms. So a substantially lower consensus is needed than it has been necessary so far for these procedures to be carried out. Of course, this time component, which is crucial to responding to market demands, is eliminated and allows, of course, all these procedures to be carried out in the short term, although a number of individuals may not agree with these procedures. Overall, the impact is certainly significantly better for everyone. It is important, however, to take into account the profession within the procedure itself which was carried out in this law in the widest possible manner, as we also had a public presentation of the opinions in which the views of both farmers and all those accompanying the planning in the space and, finally, the transport of agricultural land could be presented. Many of the comments that were forwarded were included in the procedure in the National Assembly in the text of the law alone, so that the transport of agricultural land is also significantly more effective than it was before. Above all, we can say that there is an increase in expertise and operationality in the evaluation of agricultural land. All of this I think that it is possible for the Social Democrat to make an assessment of this law in order to ensure food and energy independence through smart management of natural resources, as well as the finally somehow smart economy that creates new green jobs in the rural area, where most of Slovenia's population is finally living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished secretary, colleague and colleague, hello! The Novela of the Law on Agricultural Lands brings a lot of technical and substantive changes. A large majority of these changes are good, but there are also conflicting provisions among them. Such a provision, for example, simplifies procedures for the construction of wind power plants on agricultural land with a rating of less than 35. Although in the United Left we advocate a transition to a low-carbon society and thus a related increase in electricity production from renewable sources, the provision under which it will be possible to build new wind power plants on agricultural land already provided for in municipal spatial acts is unacceptable. The current Regulation on complementary activities on farm, as an additional activity, considers the production and sale of electricity from a wind source where the total rated power of wind power plants is limited to 100 kW. One windpower of one megawatt exceeds the maximum production allowed on farms by 10 times, and it will also be possible to build more on the same agricultural land. This is an industrial production of electricity on agricultural land, which is contrary to the purpose of the Agricultural Lands Act, which aims to preserve and improve agricultural potential, increase agricultural land for food production, sustainable land management, conservation of the landscape and rural development. The law is further disputed because it opens up the possibility of transferring state desiccants and irrigation systems to private cooperatives, and in doing so works the circuit around the Act on the management of the real property of the Republic of Slovenia and the self-government local communities, which clearly determines when and how State property is allowed to be sold or transferred free of charge to private persons. It's some kind of covert privatisation that we can't land on in the United Left. The transfer of irrigation and desiccant systems to private cooperatives is even more controversial as this will also transfer the management and maintenance tasks of these systems, which are otherwise carried out as a public service, which private law entities can only carry out on the basis of a concession. The terms and manner of awarding public service concessions are laid down in the Law on Economic Public Services. Thus, when transferring irrigation and desiccant systems, another circuit is being carried out around the exercise of the public interest of all citizens for the benefit of the private sector. It should be stressed here that private desiccants and irrigation cooperatives will not necessarily bring together all landowners lying alongside these systems, and the good management of these irrigation systems is also in the wider public interest, as these systems are often an integral element of flood protection. In order to remedy these and other shortcomings of the law in the United Left, we have proposed amendments that the coalition has rejected in the previous hearing. However, since the law also contains good solutions, we will not vote against it, but will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We Christian Democrats expected the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to propose a new, more modern law to deal with the real solutions and answers to the needs, challenges and problems of the Slovenian farmer. And before us is a novel that brings some good solutions, as well as some that we do not think are good. Above all, it does not bring about a comprehensive regulation of an area that would be very necessary in the case of an outdated law. We Members received a number of responses to the proposal for a novel, a position and proposals, we have examined everything carefully. Let me put here the opposition of civil society to the possibility of building non-agricultural buildings on agricultural land with a credit rating below 35. Small wind power plants were most exposed. In the New Slovenia Group, we are reserved for this option and we believe that the criteria should be further tightened with a slightly lower credit rating of the agricultural land. It will also be the responsibility of the Ministry to monitor compliance with the legal provisions. The novelty enables the construction or construction of a certain type of building on agricultural land and for agricultural purposes. Christian Democrats ask who and how they will control whether investors actually use such facilities for agricultural activity or set up something else and with a completely different purpose. Let us remind ourselves of the many black constructions of luxury villas under the cover of agricultural facilities, whether they are dryers or bikes. The 2007 beekeeping initiative of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia should be followed in order to enable municipalities to build beekeepers outside the settlements and also outside the so-called built-in area of the farm, so that this option is adequately defined in spatial implementing acts. In order to avoid the possibility of the construction of beekeepers being used for the construction of holiday houses, a prior positive opinion of the Beekeeping Association or the Beekeeping Advisory Service, which indicates that the land on which such beekeeping is intended to be situated is in accordance with the rules governing beekeeping, that the land is included in the bee pasture cadaver and the bee pasture order, that the investor is registered in a recognised breed organisation for beekeeping. We support the solution that on agricultural land, without altering the intended use of agricultural land, a certain type of agricultural facility may be planned by the preparation of the OPPN, subject to written conditions in the law. It will be able to save a wide range of investments in agricultural economies. In our view, however, the proposed solution is inappropriate for the contract of purchase of agricultural land to be concluded on the day of submission on the acceptance of the offer. A number of offers for the sale of agricultural land are also made by more than 10 or 20 interested parties. Following the law’s solution, a contract for the purchase of agricultural land is also concluded with these ten or twenty buyers. Everyone can file an action against the seller for the issue of a land licence before a court and, of course, they will be able to do more than that. But the seller won't have any purchases, or he'll have to sue her. For us, it's an unacceptable position of seller. The solution brought by the law is, according to our assessment, an excessive intervention into the position of the seller. So the seller actually loses his property rights and he doesn't get the purchase. In fact, a case-law has already been established, which is the solution of the law and is directly contrary to the provisions of the law now in force. The practice has proved inappropriate, yet such a solution is now legal. We note the consequences of such a law because of the State's liability for compensation. The situation in agriculture has deteriorated significantly in recent years. Small and medium-sized farmers will give up and abandon farming, the cultivation will continue. More fertile land remains unprocessed. New Members of the New Slovenia cannot be supported, as it brings only individual good solutions, which will not help Slovenian agriculture as we expected. Nor will we oppose the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act, which we are considering today, does not constitute a new system law on governance and management and on the transport of agricultural land, which should certainly be regulated and adapted as soon as possible to the new situation that will bring about changes in certain areas. We are also of the opinion that the law should be in line with the proposal for a law on the regulation of space, because it is only by doing so that we can ensure rational, professionally transparent economic and socially justified interventions into the premises of agricultural land, which is the basis for sustainable co-natural development and the provision of basics for food security. The new law brings about the following major changes. There is a wide range of facilities and interventions that the local community in the spatial act may allow to build on all agricultural land without any change of purpose. In principle, we agree with the proposed solution because it improves the competitiveness of farms and rural areas, with the exception of the possibility of building small wind power plants, because in our view it is an industrial facility, so other legislation should be taken into account in such constructions. Minimum conditions for construction on agricultural land are laid down and may be amended or strengthened by individual local communities. We support the solution because local communities can take account of their specificities or specificities of nature and the environment. The detailed spatial plan of the municipality regulates the planning of agricultural facilities and the possibility of moving agricultural holdings to agricultural land without altering the intended use. The solution is rational and beneficial in terms of the effective use of rural development funds. The professional basis for determining the areas for permanently protected agricultural land shall be simplified. The solution is also useful in terms of the possibility of taking account of the specificities of the local environment. The verification of agricultural landworthiness and the preparation of a proposal or a basis for areas suitable for the conduct of agricultural operations, irrigation, drying, comassation shall be discontinued. Solutions contribute to managing the negative effects of climate change and increase the competitiveness of agricultural economies. The novelty also brings some minor positive changes in the area of agricultural transport and the establishment of a system of compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the amendment of the law because we believe that the benefits for agricultural economies go beyond the shortcomings and risks that we are alerting us to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Once again, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! I will first touch on this because the amendment of the coalition parties has been tabled in Article 15. The fact is that this amendment was entirely logically tabled primarily because it was somehow linked to the home committee on Article 13 of this proposal of the Agricultural Lands Act. What is essential is that the full follow-up to the recommendation made at this preliminary stage by the Court of Auditors is that, in relation to these procedures, the assessment or evaluation of agricultural land should simply follow the position established by the Court of Auditors. I would allow myself, as usual, a respected president, to have a few words with regard to the law itself. If, in connection with the amendment of the proposed agricultural land law, I summarise the titles of the media in this good year, as long as such procedure took place, as a common denominator, the media accompanying such a topic can somehow cancel them with the following title: Can a goat become a holiday house? Of course, this is a serious question, and we certainly wonder whether that is true. The fact is that the drafter of the amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act was responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, by means of this proposal, expanding the range of agricultural facilities that would be allowed to be built on agricultural land without a change of purpose. At the same time, it should also be pointed out that space management experts, and perhaps even today, have expressed fear of whether such regulation, or whether the new legislation somehow opens or provides a legal hole for the growth of these so-called illegal holiday homes. Surely this is an on-the-spot question and it really needs to be given the necessary specific answer. The fact is that, after a good year of coordination of this topic with all stakeholders directly or indirectly affected by this matter, it would somehow link and somehow have already been demonstrated in the presentation of the parliamentary groups, in the main three sets. The first set, certainly the one that is most likely to be in the eyes and is also linked to the opening words of the common denominator, namely the possibility of planning agricultural facilities directly intended for agricultural activities, is said to be on agricultural land with a municipal spatial detailed plan. Secondly, force is important, faster to establish permanently protected agricultural land in individual local communities. And as a third, so-called systematic approach to the regulation of meliorations, in particular in order to adapt to the existing situation in the field of drying and irrigation of agricultural land. I think it is important to point out, above all, that I am not neglecting the other two areas, this first segment, is called planning agricultural buildings. The proposed changes include an expanded range of auxiliary agricultural facilities that can be built on agricultural land as mentioned, without any change in the purpose of the intended use. In fact, this proposal provides that the local community in the spatial act will be able to allow permanent protected land to build those that are sometimes like disputed objects, for example, I refer to the helms, the power sheds, the farmers' shovels and the like. On all other agricultural land, we know cases such as bees, ponds and so on. The reason for the extension of the range of buildings that can be built on agricultural land is, in particular, the recognition that all those actively engaged in agriculture should be allowed to maintain their level of development, and it is clear that the proposed law also had a second part in mind, it is also said that the conditions of their operation are improving. And one of the conditions for this to be ensured is certainly to enable such infrastructure, although I must admit that this is not the right term, as these are generally so-called wooden structures. Criticisms of spatial planners, if I tell farmers, in good sense, that they intervene in spatial planning by laying down arrangements for the construction of agricultural auxiliary facilities and thus place farmers in a privileged position. In order for the construction of these facilities to be laid down only in spatial legislation and not in agricultural legislation, I must admit that objectively speaking, it does not contain real judgment. Why do I think not? Preservation and development of farms and general rural areas simply requires care or care. If those responsible for the systematic regulation of the premises fail to settle them within reasonable time limits, I have in mind spatial legislation, then I can only commend the Ministry of Agriculture for their own efforts to regulate this matter, as they assess it to be necessary. This is why I see a particularly good side, positive and not when words appear in a certain direction, that rural development, as well as the status of farmers themselves, needs to be addressed in a more orderly space legislation. However, since everything is not as bad as it sometimes wants to appear at least at the level of political dialogue in this National Assembly, I am of the opinion that the view of today's law can be very optimistic. And why such thinking in this regard? In particular, because it is known that the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Space, has agreed to keep the content of construction on agricultural land pending the adoption of new spatial legislation in this Law on Agricultural Lands. It is perfectly logical to conclude from this that when the new law on the regulation of space, the provisions relating to the construction of agricultural land will simply be deleted. This means that it makes sense for a transitional period, when we do not know how long it will take, despite some time-consuming promises that spatial legislation will be regulated, to enable the normal development of agricultural activities in cooperation with the local community. To answer the original, basic thesis, who can be an investor for construction on agricultural land, which was placed under a little provocative title at the beginning of my discussion, from the media: Can a goat be a holiday house? Thus, the proposal for a new law lays down the conditions to be met by an investor for the construction of agricultural land. It is said that stands and auxiliary agri-farm facilities, which are non-requisitive buildings, will be able to be built on agricultural land by an investor who owns or leases, for the first time, 1 hectare of land classified among fields and gardens, grassland, permanent plantations and other agricultural areas, and for the second time, or 5,000 square metres of land classified as permanent crops. It is clear from this that, if I may call it that, ideas or thoughts that a goat can be a holiday house, they simply cancel with the proposal of this law. However, I would like to make a few words with regard to the improvement of the existing legislation concerning the approval of legal affairs by administrative units. The essence of this arrangement is, if I make it somewhat professionally clear, to remove administrative barriers, all with a view to reducing the time-consuming trade in agricultural land. And what needs to be highlighted is the fact that this reduction does not go at the expense of the legal security of owners. In the interests of clarity and clarity as to what this means, I think it is right to look at the already existing provision of the Agricultural Lands Act, which are those legal transactions that do not need to be approved through administrative units, the authorities of the State Administration. Only briefly, between spouses or extramarital partners, the owner and his legal heir, if this is not a protected farm. Furthermore, among co-owners, where the agricultural land, forest or farm is owned by two co-owners. Furthermore, on the basis of a life-sustainment contract, on the basis of a gift contract, on the basis of the case of death and the extradition contract. The following is to be added to this: what this bill brings to good owners, and this is that there is no need to grant legal work for the next business, namely, in cases where the owner decides on a subsistence contract, further in cases where it concerns the acquisition of agricultural land for the purposes of the construction of economic public infrastructures, it is the sewerage, water supply, telecommunications, power supply and all that is important in local areas. Furthermore, in the case of the change of agricultural land owned by the local community for building land and in the case of the purchase of agricultural land for the construction of the building, which was planned by the municipality with a detailed spatial plan. It is clear from this that the proposed changes are for the benefit of both owners and local communities, and this is precisely the intention of the legislator and, in this case, of the National Assembly to carry out its basic mission. Therefore, in this part, I conclude and believe that this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Lands Act is immediately appropriate for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u21	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! As I have already said in the position of the Group, most of these proposed changes are good and positive. However, we are critical of some who seem to us to be highly controversial. Let me first touch the law as a whole. Somehow, in the United Left, we cannot agree with a provision extending the range of facilities and interventions to areas that the local community in the spatial act will be able to allow to build on agricultural land. As you said in the presentation, as the population rises, the need for food is growing, agricultural areas are growing. In our view, this is not going in this direction. In principle, it is okay that it is the majority of simple objects that are actually connected to agriculture or facilities for exploration and infrastructure, but in expanding the range of these facilities, a range of facilities can also be expanded for holiday houses, as we have heard before. Even less so, we agree that among these facilities wind power plants are up to the nominal power of one megawatt. Otherwise, in the United Left, we are committed to increasing the share of electricity from renewable sources, but we think this provision is controversial in several respects. Let me just list some. The Regulation on complementary activities on farm as an additional agricultural activity considers the production and sale of electricity from a wind source where the total wind power of the power plant is limited to 100 kilowatts. It is therefore not logical to simplify the procedures for the construction of wind power plants on agricultural land for power plants whose rated power is 10 times the maximum permitted production that can still be considered an agricultural activity. In addition, according to the proposal of this law, several such wind power plants will be able to build one megawatt on a particular land. That's like eight. Is it not better then to leave this limit and say, let's put one eight-megawatt instead of putting eight one-megawatts, because the intervention in space is smaller. These are large objects and must somehow be brought to this land and will probably be driven through other agricultural areas, which will make the whole matter even more complicated. That this is industrial production, you have also confirmed, Mrs Tanja Strniša, on the committee. I must point out that we are not at all opposed to the industrial production of electricity from wind power plants, but it seems to us that it is impossible to simplify the procedures for the construction of these in the law, which is supposed to protect agricultural areas. Even more so, because the law does not allow the local community to provide for the construction of other renewable power plants, such as hydropower plants or solar power plants, and the procedures for these remain the same. The law actually privatises desiccant and irrigation systems. We have a special law on the availability of state property and there is no reason to see any specific provisions in the Agricultural Lands Act for irrigation and desiccant systems. Even more so because management of these systems is in the public interest. And that's what we wanted with the amendments at the preliminary hearing to delete, but, as you know, we were voted on by the coalition. Despite all that has been said and mentioned so far, let me say that we will support the law, and we will also support the amendment, which provides that persons who will evaluate agricultural land will have to have the right to be monitored in accordance with the law governing the recording of real estate. We are sure, but this amendment will, however, ensure greater legal compatibility, as well as more professional bonitisation. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u23	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. The problem raised by Mr Verbič's principles regarding the intervention on agricultural land for the construction of agricultural buildings, I think that the fears of some of those mentioned during the drafting phase of the law are justified. To be able to explain these fears, we need to know a little more about the Law on Spatial Planning or Spatial Law. Why do all new buildings, such as walls, wine cellars, have to be on building grounds? Because someone has already explained in the previous law that objects can only be built where they can be connected to utility equipment, meaning access, road, electricity, water. It follows that all these buildings must be built on building plots. According to the new construction works which are economic buildings built on building plots, each building site must have a building plot. I wonder why this is necessary, because before that was just a condition that the owner has a certain area of the vineyard or orchard and on the agricultural land he can build an object of 5 times 7 or 6 times 8, so that the economic part of the cellars can be dug into the ground, even if not, and auxiliary places for occasional stay. And this has been in force for several decades, and such walls have been built quite something, I would say, more than 10,000 in Slovenia. In Dolenjska, in the White Land there are over 10,000. For many of these facilities there is now a trend of moving from city to country, from large houses to country, because people believe that there is a better quality of life if you are in an apartment building that has 30, 35, 40 square meters, it was rather for occasional living, and now they have moved either older or even young families. How do you get them out of this facility if it's the only place to stay? We have experience with the Roma community, how this can happen. Absolutely not. Even the highway, the construction of the highway stopped because one family could not be moved out of the house. And how will we deal with these situations? Will the congregations of the local communities guide those who live in scattered homes? Are we going to say no, move them out? Is it the purpose of the State to have this agricultural land processed or not? Is it the State’s interest that you have brought food or most food or not? Is it better for the country to go to the market to buy junk food and pay some taxes to the country? Because if you came alone, you didn't. Except fertilizer, seeds and so on. What is the purpose of this country? If we had a million hectares of farmland a hundred years ago, now we have 477 thousand hectares and we want to protect 350 thousand hectares that it is for food production. Who's gonna force people to work the land if it's not worth it? Our average farm is 6.6 ha. Can the family survive at 6.6 ha? No, no, no. Because he can have 10 cows the most. You can't survive with 10 cows. Then, if I go back to any agricultural facilities. Can it be built on agricultural land? The transfer of the farm. First the barn, then the house. For God's sake, why? Why? But by then, he's gonna be living in a tent to feed the livestock and process it, and then he's gonna start building the house? Why is it a condition, if condition 1 hectare of agricultural land or 5,000 m2 of permanent stock, that is a vineyard, a orchard, I do not know what else, why the condition that this farmer must be compulsory health and pension insurance? How many of these farmers are in Slovenia? Why not the other one? Why not build complementary activities if we know that the average farmer in Slovenia can only survive through complementary activities, with a basic not. By violating the basics of spatial legislation, by establishing that the OPPN is being built, that is to say, we are changing the basic purpose of the use, which could not be changed by a detailed spatial plan or by an implementing spatial act so far. Now we've invented, the Ministry of Environment and Space has said, it's agreed, and now it can. Each OPPN costs 10,000 euros. Ten thousand euros to amend the spatial act in order to build some simple or less demanding building on the land of one hectare. In case it is not necessary to obtain another environmental permit, which lasts a year and a half to two years and costs €6,000, in practice for one barn. Now let's add up! What conditions are these, how much will there be, and why are we putting something into marriage? I am sure that the changes to the new spatial legislation to the fingers of one hand can be counted, so many of these buildings will be built and not so much until then. [[…]] Why should this legislation be amended? Take a look at your Government's normative plan when spatial legislation should be already on the table in Parliament. We're making an even bigger mess than we've had before. All of these conditions are deleted except for wine cellars and masonry, which we have on black-built 10,000 in Slovenia. Are these demolition facilities or are they better placed as a tourist activity for which there is a great deal of interest? I got a call from an investor who's going into a project, 50 has to provide me in two years, 50 building blocks with a license, because it's a huge foreign interest. With such legislation that they now have, even the Custodian Act, because under this law the mason must have a valid permit. But those landlords who rent an apartment don't need a license to rent an apartment. What's the difference? What does this have to do with hospitality if it's a stay if it's not a guest activity? We're all confused. We don't know what they want. The agricultural land is growing, those who planted vines 30 years ago, the orchard, built the building house, now they're getting old, going to the nursing home. Young people will simply not sign this as their own, which is already happening in the Roma community. Because if they don't have a job, they have nothing, they're entitled to social support, but if they have a building, even if it's just a cost, they don't have social support anymore, they don't have any money to process and maintain it. These are the facts, this is life. Do we live in another world? Shall I bring you pictures from these areas, how many vineyards are now uncircumcised? What does that mean for a golden reed? You know this better than I do, because it's necessary to spray twice with pesticides against an American crossword carrying gold cane. Who's gonna squirt? All that comes is the inspector spraying the vines you have to cut in the vineyard because they're infected. Let's be lifelike! In changing spatial legislation, we have 900 000 buildings in non-compliance with regulations and some 10 000 on black construction. If we are systematically regulating any legislation, we must first determine the real situation we have on the ground. But not to write some legislation forward that is not life. Like that politician who treated the cow, he said it was a shame that she died because I had so many ideas. That's what we do. We'll send inspectors to the field to punish those who don't work the land. Why would anyone take over after the legacy, you signed the burden on the state. We already have municipalities where the largest farms in the municipality have inherited agricultural land that no one wants because of the care paid in their homes for the elderly. It is best to organize a directing plant, buy a tractor, and process that land if they do not pay the congregation a fine because they do not process it because it is law and inspection. Self-sustainment is falling, agricultural land is growing, but we are living in another world. We support bigger farmers. You will see what will happen now if the milk is no longer sold at such a price or even the question of what farmers will do if they no longer come for milk with the tanker because it is already happening in neighbouring countries. What did the state, the ministry, do for it? But we're just protecting, protecting that it's growing, and we're finally going to have three-quarters of the country in Nature, and we're going to live off bird singing when we listen to the birds, and we're going to eat inquality food with genetically modified organisms. Half the feed that our cattlemen consume is imported. It's a statistic. We give subsidies and then they export at the price of the agricultural crop. The subsidy is provided by the economy to export quality raw material out of subsidies and we import half of milk products. Wrong world. And the last thing farmers will do is do what they need for their family, their relatives, and the rest is not worth it. When the two pensioners were talking to each other, it's a shame that I don't have 100 Euros anymore, I could have two cows, and now I only have one. That's the fact that it's just a cost. What are we gonna do? What policy do we have? We copy European laws and comply with all the directives and regulations that are written on the skin of countries that have significantly better farming conditions than we do. The Austrians have already wondered how long they will be able, given the conditions they have, to nominate this European agricultural policy because they are failing them. But we are pleased, we listen to ministers share some money, something to do, something to do, and self-sustainment is falling and agricultural land is growing. However, if some would like to engage in complementary activities, it is not possible to do so on one occasion because it is unsatisfying that someone will build a weekend next to their agricultural facility. He also wonders whether the shepherd’s dwelling will have to be built on agricultural land. I wonder if these auxiliaries are useful agricultural facilities, if they need to be connected to municipal infrastructure. Every dairy site needs drinking water. Where a cow is milked, they need water, and this unspoiled water, not any water. And if the facility is connected to municipal infrastructure under our legislation, it must be on building land. And if it's a building plot, it's just a small step from the shepherding grounds to the weekend. It's a small step because it's a building plot. Is that possible? Instead of allowing those people who really want to engage in complementary activities to get all the necessary permits and deal with them, including tourism. Did anyone wonder what the interest of foreigners in building houses is? Nobody hears, everyone sees only that he has a wall to go to the country, he has a nice weekend, he has a little work and he enjoys himself. The disdain of state bureaucrats instead of looking at things from a different salary. Montenegro's Minister of Agriculture said that the best export is sold food on the tourist table, there is no better export and no greater added value. Why are we defending this? Why are we not changing and adapting legislation to the actual situation? I listened to Mr Eglič, who participated in the Regulation of Space Act 15 years ago or 20 years ago, he said that the legal situation on the ground must first be recorded, what we have, what we want and how we will do it as soon as possible. To this day it has not been done. Even municipalities do not get data on whether or not they have a building permit, they have to make an application to the administrative unit and wait fourteen days to send it. Is that necessary? How is it in Italy, how is it in Austria, how many black buildings are there? How many unearned municipal contributions are there in the field that can build municipal infrastructure in the municipalities - we don't care. We have the right barn, and with this law we increase this confusion. Why don't we wait and arrange space legislation so we can sort things out in some way. Or, say, we don't need an O.N. because half of the congregations don't have receptions like that, but they should have in 2009. Each of us costs a couple hundred thousand euros to the congregation. If we do not comply with legislation, if we can have so many black constructions, then why give so much for this legislation. It will be the same with permanently protected agricultural land, it is only a mask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u25	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Good bye to all of you again! I will cut back on this because I have already presented the position of the Group of Members. The main problem I see here is that they only get the option of certain industrial sites to be placed on agricultural land. It is most likely clear to all of us that there will be aspirations for other types of industrial facilities, because if only some get the chance, then there will certainly be pressures, that is my opinion. The next important thing to mention in this law is that this law or this novel will be as successful as the procedures for municipal spatial plans will be simplified. My experience and information show that many municipalities, at least in my area, have very serious problems with these municipal plans because of certain agreements which are being drawn, procedures are expensive, and it will certainly be necessary to ensure that these procedures are rationalised. I therefore urge the Government to examine what can be done here, because it will depend on how successful this law will be. In addition, it is my duty to point out that the local communities on the one hand do have a certain important role to play in view of the specificity of their environment, to make investments easier to address the shortcomings in the identification of agricultural land in the past. But we need to be aware that when the relocation of agricultural holdings and various agricultural facilities takes place outside the settlement, that is to say, where now, which is municipally also regulated, it is necessary to calculate the additional costs, investment costs, because these facilities will be located somewhere outside the settlements, that is to say on agricultural land, that infrastructure will have to be built and municipalities will feel pressure, probably not as much of a country and a state budget as the local community itself. The next thing I want to say is that Slovenia is very different. And that's right. In certain areas, we have, in particular, my place, mostly just agricultural land and here we had very big problems, because many times the existing legislation was a very large and strong bar that hindered development. Let's hope this changes to some extent. But I have an even greater hope when the entire spatial legislation is properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u27	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags has the floor. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me some clarifications on what has been said in the debate. First of all, I would like to say, although we have already made extensive explanations on some of the points on the parental committee, I think we should, because, after all, there is now a plenary session here, but to repeat certain matters because there is a misunderstanding of certain provisions. First of all, I would like to point out that the law does not in any way impose new obligations on the congregations. In fact, the professional bases that have been exposed here to the production of permanently protected agricultural land are financed from the budget, from the dedicated item on which the funds from the change in the destination of agricultural land are collected. For the municipality, important permanently protected agricultural land and professional grounds have already been introduced by amending the 2011 law, which is now new and better for the municipalities, it is that this process of preparing professional bases will be cheaper and also cheaper from the point of view of the state budget. In this regard, I would also like to say and answer, and also to respond to the debate by Mr Lach, that we have already prepared an expert study on which agricultural land is of strategic importance for food production. The technical study and the related regulation have already been made public and has also been made public, so that we already have very good professional bases for a more detailed definition of the professional basis, which will essentially be some kind of negotiating position of the Ministry of Agriculture in the process of preparing the UNOP, which the land is to be designated as permanently protected, in order to provide so much land over a long period of time, our objective would, of course, be 350 thousand hectares of agricultural land, which would provide that core for food security. Even with regard to the transfer of desiccant systems and irrigation systems to the municipality, we do not impose new burdens here because it is a voluntary transfer. The current law stipulated that ownership relations in the desiccant systems should be determined by contract. This is in a marriage that is two decades old, but this has not been settled in practice, the whole transfer has remained in the country. And by means of a new law, we allow this transfer to be done, but still, I stress if the congregation wants it. For the same reason, the irrigation system is similar. I also want to keep something here, i.e. the current irrigation systems are a lot of things, as well as the Members, you see the need for renovations because they are old. To restore irrigation systems, the only source of funding is the rural development programme. According to the European Regulation, the State is not eligible for this purpose, so if irrigation systems are owned by the Republic of Slovenia, it is virtually impossible to finance from the rural development programme. It's not possible. Renewable systems are needed. The municipalities can be beneficiaries, so if the municipality decides to have this interest, if it listens to its farmers, then this irrigation system can be re-emphasized if it wants to – or if it has a group of municipalities – it can apply to the call for proposals and it can restore these systems by means of a rural development programme. If the municipality has no interest, farmers, owners of agricultural land may enter. If they have an interest in the irrigation system to restore and maintain, they may do so in the form of irrigation cooperatives, not necessarily. If neither the municipality has any interest nor any irrigation cooperative, these systems will remain state-owned and will continue to be managed by the public service, as I said in the introduction, the real Agricultural Land Fund. Maintenance funds, I have previously talked about investment, irrigation systems already under current legislation are carried by the agricultural land owners themselves in this irrigation area, collected as contributions and then maintained by these irrigation systems. This will also be the case in the future, even if the municipality takes over the management of irrigation systems, it will collect this contribution for maintenance and maintain irrigation systems through these means. Not only does the law not impose new financial obligations on municipalities, but once again, I stress, the law means considerable relief for municipalities in the transport of agricultural land when the municipality needs agricultural land for the construction of sewerage, plumbing, road reconstruction and the like. According to the current legislation, trade in agricultural land is regulated and it is known that the preferred beneficiary in transport is always a co-owner and then a farmer, and then a tenant and so on. We by this law allow that if the municipality needs agricultural land, in this case it does not need the approval of the business by the administrative unit and it can buy such land, it can also change it. Here we have come up with this proposal for legislative change, we have prepared it at the initiative of the local community and is in line with them. I also point out that in no way do we prejudice the original competence of local communities in terms of spatial planning. We only determine in terms of agricultural land protection what else is allowed, that the municipality plans on agricultural land if it so wishes, and give the municipality the opportunity to prescribe stricter conditions, as far as the owners who would place the premises there are concerned, or as far as the facilities themselves are concerned. The municipality may decide not to allow any small wind power plants or auxiliaries to the UNO if so decided. Thus, in no way does this law interfere with the jurisdiction of the congregations, but it wants to be a life - style, to solve certain situations in everyday life and certain problems, and in this regard it offers the congregation some flexibility. Since I mentioned the small wind power plant, as already said by Mrs Tomić, these power plants have no connection to agriculture and to the management of complementary activities in agriculture, and this provision is not intended to do so. The provision is intended to allow such a wind power plant to be installed on agricultural land without previously changing the intended use of that land if the municipality agrees and enters into its own UN. And it's only on worse agricultural land to a 35-point rating. Let me tell you why this is still acceptable in terms of agricultural land protection. We are all aware of the obligations we have as a country in terms of renewable resources, and every renewable resource also requires agricultural land. And let me illustrate with data: The Brežice hydropower plant has the nominal power of 45 megawatts, which is 45 small ones that we allow on bad land, and it took 220 hectares of agricultural land, which have a rating there at 50, and over 70 credit points, for example, from 60 to 70 credit points on average. We would have taken 5 hectares for the same nominal power, which is 3%, up to 3% of the land and the bad land. In terms of agricultural land protection and the Agricultural Lands Act, the protection of agricultural land is mainly regulated by the placement of small wind power plants up to this nominal power on poor agricultural land is much more acceptable. The power of one megawatt was proposed by the Ministry responsible for infrastructure, and it is likely that larger facilities require, however, the first change of the intended use to the building and also a different planning process. In this regard, if the congregation allows, what we allow by law, these undesirable and simple facilities on agricultural land, I would like to say two. First, it is really small and unwelcome objects where it is not possible to stay under any conditions, because then such an object is no longer a simple object. Control over the fact that the intended use is indeed agricultural will be carried out by an agricultural inspection. As far as beekeepers and the 2007 Beekeeping Union initiative are concerned, in our law and in this amendment, according to our assessment, it is consumed and realised. I would like to say that the law, which actually has certain elements that are originally part of spatial legislation, is in line with the spatial ministry, that we also know that when spatial legislation changes, that we will be able to make those provisions that make more sense in their law, they will be settled there and probably delete it if they so agree. However, I would like to say more about the masonry and the complementary activities and these large facilities, because we have on one side, I think that two things are also sometimes mixed, on the one hand we have these non-requisitive facilities and auxiliary facilities that they can set up, if the municipality permits, on agricultural land investors who must have at least half a hectare of agricultural land in accordance with our law, if they are permanent plantations or 1 hectare of agricultural land. This is just one type of facility – simple and unwelcome objects and the municipality must allow it. The municipality may also say that none of this is allowed or that the investor must have additional conditions in addition to these surfaces. Secondly, what we are talking about are serious economic objects. These are economic buildings, but we allow them on agricultural land, but not just so. A detailed spatial plan must be adopted for this purpose, which means that all the consents must be obtained. It is only in that it is not necessary to wait for the entire municipal spatial plan to be amended, to change the whole of the OPR and to move faster in this respect. Of course, there is no condition for one hectare of agricultural land, because then it would be completely too wide open, but it is a condition that a farmer is insured to have pension insurance as a farmer. So this is about professional farms that need to be able to develop, and this is what we allow them to do. Many of the municipalities also have an interest in moving the farm because it is too crowded in the village. And that's what we're doing with this special procedure. However, we believe that the reason for the resettlement and the special procedure, which is an exception, which in some ways makes it bureaucraticly possible to make the journey easier, is applicable to barns, but cannot apply to complementary activities, as this would open up the space too wide. This provision is also fully spatially harmonised and is not contrary to spatial legislation, this has also been well explained on the home committee by the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Why is it that first the barn and then the apartment, and I guess we all understand. None of us want someone to conduct a special procedure with the congregation through a detailed spatial plan for housing and barn, first move the house and then run out of money and just use this system. It is essential to prevent this abuse, so it is essential to first build an economic facility, which is usually the one that is disruptive, or one that needs enlargement and is sealed in a settlement, there is a need. However, since it makes sense, especially in livestock farming, that housing is close when it comes to dairy farming, let us also allow the farm to move at the same time, if such interest is concerned. And, of course, with the municipal detailed spatial plan, we do not change the purposeful use. The intended use shall remain agricultural at that moment, and the next time the municipal spatial plan is changed, then, in accordance with spatial legislation, this agricultural use shall be converted into a building plot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u29	I'm asking you to reapply because it's still an interest. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about Article 15 and the amendment to Article 15 and, of course, more broadly, such as parliamentary practice, about the Agricultural Lands Act. It is simply not possible to oppose this amendment of the coalition groups. In fact, I justify this opinion by the Court of Auditors or, more precisely, by the former Member of the Court of Auditors, Mr Sam Jereb. When we saw in the New Slovenia Group that we had a novel on the Agricultural Lands Act, we went to study this law with great interest. I must say that our first disappointment was, in fact, not a systemic solution; some of you have already discussed and discussed this today in the views of your parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, today we need a systemic solution, a system law on agricultural land that will be good for today and will be good for the future. Now that we have a common European agricultural policy, I think that some archaic solutions are no longer good. And because there is no system solution, we have too much abuse of agricultural land. We have some political February – I am not saying that this is happening today – which in the past have been known cases, abused agricultural land, had papers, as they say, for a fruit dryer, built a castle and now the case has been being brought to justice for several years. Of course, the inactive legal state is probably more guilty here than the Agricultural Lands Act. Nobody gets hurt, but some poor Prekmurc, Mr Küzmich, gets thrown out of some holiday house literally on the road because they're more interested. And those politicians that this gentleman once hosted today have turned their backs on him. Now let's just leave it. Madam Secretary of State said it very well in the beginning, and it was her concern that was perceived, and here I share this concern. It is a concern that we, ladies and gentlemen, are growing more and more agricultural land. Sometimes I think with unwise administrative measures, we know the agricultural land so that it can be healed. That's my feeling. You need to look at the numbers. It seems to me that we should take more account of the principle of subsidiarity here in this new law. However, why we do not give local communities more free time, of course, the state has to set some frameworks, but Slovenia is so diverse as to apply to agricultural land that in one day we can be in Panonski nižin, in låkarija, in the country of Cvička, in the Alpine world, in Goriski Brd and in the Adriatic. This is our wealth, but this diversity is, in my opinion, impossible to deal with through a common denominator. It's kind of incomprehensible to me that the state prescribes that the beekeeper must be woody and must not be more than 40 square metres. Would it not be enough to write that, of course, we understand what a beekeeper is for? It's just one function. This is actually the cultivation of bees or the production of honey and other products. Now, what happens when someone builds a beekeeper, a wooden one, a big 45 square feet, because they happen to have such a piece of wood and optimized the use of wood, say? That's crazy. I just don't get it. I also do not understand what has already been problematic today, Article 3: "The local community may, in the Spatial Act of the Local Community in the area of agricultural land, permit the construction of the following facilities or interventions into the premises, point b, simple and non-requisitive agri-land facilities in accordance with a regulation governing the type of objects according to the complexity, other than cellars and wine cellars." And now I'm going to have a micro-local discussion. The Lendava Mountains are also part of my district. Once, it is said, the largest vineyard plant in Slovenia, between 600 and 700 hectares, was not talking about the beauty of this region, but today it is no longer. Today you have to write minus 300 hectares of vineyards and there this area of 300 hectares grows. We have a beautiful view tower there today. Come and take a look at it. What are my grandchildren going to be watching, my children looking from this tower in 10, 20 years? They're gonna watch the jungle because it's growing. Our ancestors plucked out the jungle, cultivated it, and planted a vine there, even twice because it was once destroyed by a wine ear, 600 to 700 hectares. There is an interest to go tourism in the walls, but now the local community of this economic sector so important, so sung, must not allow. It can allow, but people don't like paper, people know, farmers can do fantastic work, produce their products, process land and so on, and nobody likes paper. Of course, there must be some frameworks, of course, I am not for total liberalisation in the sense of anarchy. Sometimes I also wonder when we walk on the ground and some successful entrepreneur has a good product, a good market, and he says that he could sign a contract for a few years with a famous multinational or car brand, but he can't because he can't expand because he can't build another production hall, because he can't and can't build another agricultural land. Let us answer with pure wisdom: Where does more bread grow, on one hectare a large production hall of a functioning company, or on one hectare of first-class agricultural land? Where does more bread grow? And I come from an agricultural environment, and this land is very close to me. I took the initiative of the Government, before the joint meeting of the Slovenian and Hungarian governments, to find an incentive for both governments to build a technology basement in Lendava Mountains, because if there is no technology cellar there, we will only face more accelerated and growing up in Lendava mountains. I'm not for governments to build, I'm not for state intervention, I'm for state investment. These are bad at my best. But I am for some encouragement that the government could finally do. Our expectations were high in this marriage, but that is exactly the case with disappointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u31	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm supposed to be rushing to a press conference right now, and my people here are yelling at me, and I didn't mean to come by, but I have to, in fact, because it's a very important topic. If I paraphrase the speaker in front of me, my district is all Slovenia, I am the son of your teacher and in Slovenia we do not all live in Ljubljana but in some urban environments. If I sum up this debate meaningfully so far, we have the right barn: we have the protection, we have the least agricultural land per capita in the European Union and we have some diversity, I would even hope to say, to prevent diversity. And we've got some stories that roll up a type of extra activity, three years it's going to be, two years it's going to be something else, and so on and so on, and we've got two scattered resources, and we've also got feudalized. Agriculture has been feudised by the Social Democrats and is not acting socially or democratically in this sector. Maybe if you were a United Left, I or a colleague could be critical, but that's the way it is. People who get to know the director say: “Mr. Židan is the agricultural minister of neighbouring countries and Panvita.” End of quote. Recently, Mr. Scream has become – how many times already? – the president of the company. For 20 years it's been bright up there, and now it's like, "Yeah, but now we're gonna respect the company." But we have a partnership, comparatively, seven-, eight- to ten times worse. I apologize, but there is not yet such a political culture in Slovenia that anyone has more than two mandates in such an important function. She's not here. We would probably need a constitutional law to ban it. I'm sorry, but it's true. I don't know, Mr. Lah, you usually laugh, he has this eternal theme of the wall, but it's a very relevant topic after all. After all, we do not see any activity to organize this cooperatively. There have been some attempts in the White Land and in Dolenjska, where you somehow feel that the executive power is blocking this. Okay, we can talk about permanently protected agricultural land. I'm very much into it. I could spread the darkness even to the Triglav National Park and so forth, but think about this protection in such a way that people can live and survive there. I am fortunate enough to miss one of the leading European architects for barns to work, not for barns, because we have a barn, and we never come to discuss landscape architecture and if you want architecture. What the gentleman has said before me is that we have a variety of ways to come out of this vernacular diversity and how to help people to be personal. Because let's be honest, because far away our landscape looks beautiful if you come a little close, even in Istria, these are mainly henhouses and architecturally poorly done things. We have twenty years left in this area. Because the main point of the National Assembly is some, let's say, half-breeded population, I'm afraid we're going to have a decade to extend this. We have insemination, we have in terms of hectares a relatively small structure, we have, say, look at what has been said today, we are now going to do an expert study. I mean, this professional study had to be done in 1995. We have so-called bad agricultural land. Okay, that's the classification, let's ask ourselves, maybe they're not so bad again, why they're good. We have a story that tells us how the fast road to Velenje will go, because no one thinks, but why not drag it along the existing route, because someone has already decided, and so on, and what if the plant hops. We've got a brewery. I should be starting a press conference by now. [[…]] In short, we have one fine that obviously these compositions, which are now unable to resolve, and we have just too much to put on the shoulders of the congregations. Yesterday, I listened to Mr. Cerar, and he was shown that Arih helped him a little bit, and his main words were: “The government recommends.” I mean, the government is not a NGO, the government is a decision-maker! Or, here we had Mrs State Secretary on irrigation devices: if they want, they can, they can not. The government is a decision-maker! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Because of some of the things that have been said before me, by the debaters, it is simply right that I have decided, after all, to apply, especially because I believe that not only do we have different views, but we may also read this proposal differently. But, as far as I am concerned, I find it disturbing that many times this spatial legislation has been mentioned and that this area, which is now regulated by this amendment of the law, must be tied in some way and so forth. I must admit that I am increasingly surprised by this, especially because this spatial legislation has obviously been a branch of the executive and legislative branch of power for many years. And it is reasonable to think why irregularity in this area should always be at the burden of those, in this case as far as this law is concerned, say farmers, rurals who want to literally preserve their villages, their own development, in the final stage also in the welfare of food production of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, I believe that the adoption of this law may also help to ensure that this spatial legislation begins to be fully regulated and also to move, and that we will finally get it in the National Assembly. On the part of his respected colleague Lach, many words were intended for black construction and the like. Of course, we are all very impatient, given that these things are taking place for years and years, and it simply does not occur that these degraded spaces begin to be systematically regulated by removal. Since there has been some talk that this bill does not constitute a systemic solution, and although at some point in time, I simply cannot agree with it, because it is precisely with this law that we have, I can say, a systemic solution to three key areas, and this is the regulation or planning of agricultural sites on agricultural land. There is absolutely a great deal of authority given to local communities. Then permanently protected agricultural land with a different approach than before. And the third one, which is very crucial and most likely even by this year's year, is the area of melioration, especially irrigation. Because there was also a lot of talk about wine cellars in some ways, as if it were the biggest problem of this law. On the one hand, the debaters intervened in the fact that we have degraded areas. Let us be aware that of those thousands of objects that have been set up illegally, there is probably a nice number of such objects. And what is important about this proposal of the law is that it is probably necessary to say out loud what can be built on permanently protected agricultural land. What is really important is that local communities will allow the construction of simple and non-requisitive agricultural facilities. Because I firmly believe that the local community is the one most likely interested in how the so-called agricultural land is managed, whether it is in the interest of the local community and owners in this case of farmers or cooperatives of any kind or other, that kind of intervention. And the fact is that only certain auxiliary agri-agricultural facilities are allowed to be built on these permanently protected agricultural land. Since there was no speech today except to refer to some articles, I simply have to fly briefly. They are a planter, fences for pastures, farmhouses, fences for permanent plantations, a network against hail, a network for the protection of agricultural crops, clearly also a goat, a dairy farm, a feeding grounds, a farm shed. Of course, such measures and such activities go to the benefit of the food grower. And there's no sampling of the space here. I am convinced that we are indeed going against owners and local communities with these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself cannot oppose the amendment to Article 15, but I would like to stress here once again what my colleague Verbic has already said today is a matter of legal certainty, but I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what I have already pointed out on the Committee that it seems to me that an inappropriate solution is that the contract for the purchase of agricultural land is concluded on the date of the application for acceptance of the offer. This seems to me to be unacceptable mainly from the point of view of agricultural land being sold on public advertising boards where they can apply with the same right, including foregone rights, people and everyone has a contract. How's that gonna work out? Here I would ask very clearly whether the seller will then go into a lawsuit with everyone or the buyers will simply not be able to sell the property because it is owned by a few buyers — as a contract. [[…]] I'd like a precise explanation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. In my opinion, we had the opportunity to present a comprehensive view of the text of the law that we are considering today. That is where I pointed out the importance of this law, which certainly responds to the acute situation in agriculture due to climate change and also to the need for more rapid adaptation to agriculture in order to achieve as much competitiveness as possible. However, I would like to point out to the amendment to Article 15 that, above all, it is to try to further clear the text of the law and to address some of the shortcomings or possible uncertainties that could create problems in the implementation of the law, thereby making it difficult for us to have a number of important procedures, either in the construction of the infrastructure or in the implementation of investments for agricultural purposes. One of these is linked to the Law on Courts, which simply prescribed that the work of judicial assessors is limited only to the needs of the courts and not to other valuations. It is important that the law governing the recording of real estate, in fact, by terminating the management of records of cadastral cultures and classes, has also made it impossible to implement the valuations as envisaged in the original phase of this text of the law. Therefore, the single methodology, because of the fact that these records on cadastral cultures are no longer maintained, is no longer useful for valuations and, of course, it is also stipulated in this Article that the Minister responsible for agriculture should specify, in agreement with the competent Minister for Geodetic Affairs, the methodology and all the procedures necessary for the valuation of land. At this last final stage, if I may say so, because I assume that the law will of course be adopted, we further clear the text of the law in the procedure in the National Assembly. And that is good, and I therefore welcome this way of understanding and debate during the adoption of the law either in public debate or also in the Committee itself, in the sense that we take into account the professional comments which we have finally approved in this case. The amendment tabled by the coalition actually makes sense, clears the text of the law and, of course, also removes any legal uncertainty in the valuation of real estate, which is crucial for investors and, of course, also for the replacement of potential land and so on. In short, it's a good proposal and I'll support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. If you allow me, because in the first implementation I did not define myself under the proposed amendment to Article 15, let me say that the Government also supports such an amendment. From the point of view of our ministry, it is crucial that we understand, crucial in the valuation of the land of the comassation fund, that those who have a rating exam do so. Indeed, in the case of the Commission’s Fund, it is the owners who invest their land in the fund and then get another land out, and this is the knowledge of this assessor, the one who values it from the binitation or from the quality of the land, of key importance. We fully support this amendment. We also supported the amendment by 13. To Article, of course, in conjunction with Article 15, which deletes the provisions as to whether the person assessing agricultural land must be an indispensable expert in the agricultural profession or an authorised value assessor of real estate. Then I would like to respond to what Mr Horvat discussed regarding the placement of the walls. Here I would like to explain that we do not interfere or aggravate legislation in this area. Since 2008, the Ministry of Environment and Space has been in the position to allow the construction of buildings only on building sites. The municipalities continue to do so within the framework of the municipal spatial plan, where it is imperative to define the wine-growing area. Outside the wine-growing areas, it is not possible to set the building blocks. In this wine-growing area, the practice is now to update existing buildings and establish building land in the area of existing buildings, but also to plan new building plots, but not on agricultural land. We're probably coming from different cultural backgrounds. I believe that it is very common in the lower part of the country, when it is the masonry of those from which the weekends, classic weekends or apartments are created, because in the past these arrangements have been under-protected. I would also like to reply to Mrs Dimič's Members, who, in fact, touched twice on the arrangement to consider acceptance of the offer by the Administrative Unit for a closed business. Here in the law we summarized the case law, namely, the Supreme Court ruled in April 2012. And a purely legal opinion, a strictly technical legal opinion, was that it made sense, since such practice had already been established, to be summed up in the law. I would like to recall once again that there have also been more comments in the direction of a systemic change, to what I said at the outset, we will redesign the whole chapter of agricultural land transport, including the process of how such a deal is concluded or whether it will remain so or not. It is anticipated that in the following year we will submit amendments to the law to the Government and then to the National Assembly. And then it may make sense to arrange this procedure in a completely different way. However, that we do not now have some prevailing situation created by judicial practice, some intermediate arrangements and then some third arrangement, the assessment was such that this case law and this Supreme Court decision are also summarized in law. That would be my further explanation. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, may I wish you a merry Easter holiday! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Tuesday, 29th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending the law on the association of Slovenian railways, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemna Grebenska, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments to the Slovenian Railways Act interfere with the possibility of active management of subsidiaries of the Slovenian Railways. Thus far, the legal provision in Article 3(5) provides that Slovenian railways, as the founder and sole associate of subsidiaries referred to in the law, cannot share or transfer their business share to another person. This provision is not in line with the country’s capital investment management strategy as defined in the Capital Investment Management Strategy Regulation. The management strategy is the basic tool for active ownership of the country by which the country communicates its objectives to the investment manager of the country, shareholders, the wider capital market and the general public in managing state-owned investments. The strategy is also a fundamental document to ensure independent professional and efficient management by the State's capital investment manager on the one hand and to separate the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State, thus preventing conflicts of interest, distortion of competition on the markets and unequal treatment of companies on the other. The strategy is also in line with the Slovenian State Holding Act. In the Slovenian Railway Company Act, the existing provision of the Slovenian Railway limits its business share in subsidiaries, which are 100 % owned, cannot be shared or transferred to another person. The restriction resulting from the existing law does not allow Slovenian railways to adapt to the market situation envisaged in the strategy. As a result, the draft law proposes deleting a provision whereby Slovenian railways cannot share or transfer their business shares in subsidiaries that are in their 100 % ownership. The proposal constitutes a harmonisation of the current law with the existing and applicable system of management of capital companies or provides a legal basis for its alignment with the strategy. The existing provision does not allow Slovenian railways to have their business share in a way that would allow other stakeholders to enter the ownership structure of a subsidiary, and the proposed amendments will make this possible. According to the strategy, Slovenian railways will only be able to have a share in subsidiaries in such a way as to maintain at least 50% and one share. The proposal to amend the law is also in line with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, to which we sent an appropriate reply and additional clarifications were given orally to the Infrastructure Committee. We are aware of the proposed amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which provides that Slovenian railways, as the founder and associate of its subsidiaries, can only have business shares in individual subsidiaries in accordance with the strategy. We agree with the proposed amendment, so that we support the text of the amended law in which the amendment is adopted. The amendment of the United Left Group proposing the deletion of the entire government proposal is not acceptable to us. Maintaining the existing legislative situation is incompatible with the country's adopted capital investment management strategy. It also does not allow the necessary developmental Slovenian railways to respond to the market situation in a liberalised European environment. We want the Slovenian railway carrier to make use of the comparative advantage of Slovenia offered by its position at the TEN-T Corridor. The explanation of the proposed amendment is also contrary to the strategy adopted. Your Honor! I thank you for your attention and for your support for the updated proposal for a law amending the Law on the Society of Slovenian Railways and wish you a pleasant holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u44	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 18th meeting, on 9. 3. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, representatives of Slovenian Railways, d.o.o., Slovenian Unions of Alternative and Legal Services Trade Unions took part in the meeting of the Committee. In addition, on behalf of the applicant, Mr Klemen Grebenšek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, explained that the current legal provision in Article 5(3) provides that Slovenian Railways, as founders and sole associate of subsidiaries mentioned in the law, cannot share or transfer their business share to another person. However, this provision is not in line with the country’s capital investment management strategy, as defined in the State Capital Investment Management Strategy Decision, which is a core document to ensure independent, professional and efficient management by the State’s capital investment manager on one hand and to separate the function as capital investment owners in the other country’s function, thus preventing conflicts of interest, distortion of competition in markets and non-equiptable companies on the other. He pointed out that the existing provision of the law in the Republic of Slovenia did not allow for the necessary adaptation to the market situation provided for in the strategy. Consequently, the draft law proposes deleting a provision whereby Slovenian railways cannot divide or transfer their business shares in subsidiaries that are in their 100 % ownership. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that this service had also examined the draft law from the point of view of the competence of this service. He pointed out that the applicant, as a reason for the proposed amendment of the law, stated that the same topics as those set out in Article 3, paragraph 5, were also regulated in the SDH Act. This provision, in the fourth indent of Article 94, provides that the sixth paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on the Company of the Slovenian Railways shall cease to apply from the date of its entry into force, so that it has intervened in the same article, which is also the subject of the proposed amendment this time. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission did not support the proposal as it would open up the possibility of selling or transferring the business shares of Slovenian railways in subsidiaries. However, the Director-General of the Slovenian Railways agrees with the proposed arrangement. He pointed out that the subsidiary was a Slovenian Railway – Freight Transport company, one of the biggest burdens of Slovenian Railways with a loss of about EUR 25 million since 2010. In the last 5 years, it has made a large business establishment and has started to operate on profits, but they want to upgrade positive business trends and their strategic objective is to expand to neighbouring markets, in particular South-East, Central and Eastern Europe, which is why the ownership structure needs to be changed. In the debate, support for amending the law was expressed to a large extent. An amendment has been proposed by the SD Group, which has provided a substantive summary of the strategy on the share that Slovenian railways can sell or dispose of in subsidiaries, but concerns about this amendment have been expressed on the Committee. However, an additional warning was also given by the representative of the ZPS, which eventually led to the proposed special amendment to the barn, which some discussers felt was unnecessary. After discussion, the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 1 and voted on the two articles of the bill together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u46	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Slovenian Railway Company Act regulates compliance with the management strategy and the Slovenian State Holding Act, thus allowing for the possibility of having a business share. This allows Slovenian railways to manage the economy in a prudent, rational way in the future. We support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. A joint amendment has been proposed on the home working body, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, but we believe that this amendment is unnecessary because it duplicates and actually summarises the existing act, the strategy, so that it is not really necessary. However, we believe that this amendment, too, and this supplement is not harmful. In the Group of Members, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with Director and Fellow Member, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! As we have already heard and will hear more today, the proposal for a new Law on the Company of Slovenian Railways coordinates the law and management strategy with state assets. The current law provides that Slovenian railways, as founder and sole associate of subsidiaries, cannot share or transfer their business shares to another person. Therefore, the novelty allows the company to have a business share if, given the market situation, this is shown to be prudent and rational. This provision shall not be opposed by the Desus Group. However, we wanted to ensure that the subsidiaries of the Slovenian Railways, which are more marketable, could not be sold in full. We are particularly concerned about the part that provides public economic services, such as the transport of passengers. There could also be sales of economically more successful companies, while those could be less promising and with poor business results on the back of the country. Of course, no one wants to, neither do we in the Desus Group. Nor does anyone want the hierarchy of acts governing the management of state property to be played in the future, which could lead theoretically to the full sale of a very important state-owned company. Therefore, we have assessed that the law by rank over the decree, which means that if we clearly record in the law what is already contained in the strategy, any change in the strategy in the work concerning the company of Slovenian Railways will also have to be regulated in the law. By doing so, we will avoid any manipulation of the following Slovenian State Holding Boards, which we cannot possibly know how they will think at that time. What we want in the Desus Group is that if the need to sell the works of this state-owned company or its successors shows itself, we will find responsible and good strategic partners that, together with the country, will enable the development of this company or its subsidiaries. This is particularly important from a social point of view, since the Slovenian Railway Company, together with its subsidiaries, is one of the largest employers in our country, which is still in state ownership. If the company came into the majority ownership of inappropriate owners, we can be absolutely confident that the reforms would first be undertaken by reducing the number of employees, as we can see in the cases of many other Slovenian companies which were sold to foreigners or over-capitalist owners. Since we do not want to contribute to the creation of new social pressures in the Desus Group, we have supported the amendment's proposal that the law also states that the share of state property in the company of the Slovenian Railway and its subsidiaries cannot be reduced below 50% + 1 share. Finally, let me add that we do not agree with the statements made by the Slovenian Railway Management that such an amended law will limit the operation of railways in the future. We are confident that he will help to find a suitable, responsible strategic partner. The fact is that the state of this company will no longer be able to deal with financial problems in an extreme way. Finally, this company was recapitalised with EUR 110 million. The Republic of Slovenia, however, with its guarantee, stands for several hundred million loans, for which no one wants Slovenia's railways not to be able to repay them and consequently to burden the state treasury. We therefore sincerely hope that Slovenian railways will be able to take advantage of this novel proposal, which gives them the opportunity to expand to foreign markets. We also place a lot of hope in the current management of the company, which, according to the results of the company's operations, leads the company well. As has already been seen from the content of our position, in the Desus Group we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u50	Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! As we have decided at the time of the adoption of the Strategy on the Management of State Property, Slovenian Railway represents a society of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia, as it also pursues public interest, enables mobility and represents one of the main logistics pillars of the Republic of Slovenia, which needs to be upgraded, developed in the future, and in which we recognize the exceptional potential both for economic and other social growth, mainly in terms of ensuring the transition to a greener and lower carbon society. In view of the change or implementation of the strategy on the management of state property, it was also necessary to amend the law before us, the law governing the Slovenian Railway Company, since Slovenian Railways are one of the few, if not the only companies whose operation is governed by the law. It was therefore extremely important that a suitable basis could also be made possible through this law to ensure the further development, growth and regional connectivity of the Slovenian Railway Company. At the same time, to enable the State Asset Management Strategy to be implemented as it has been written. In the opinion of the Social Democrats, the basic law, as proposed, failed to fully declare it in its text, so we have proposed an amendment which clearly stipulates that not only the holding company, but also the key subsidiaries, namely transport, tow, traffic, must remain in the majority ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that they cannot be sold in full and must be managed in accordance with the principle of 50% + 1 shares. Why was this especially important to us? We were afraid that there might be a situation where a marketable part of the Slovenian Railways could be sold out, such as freight, which generates profits and has no doubt potential for further growth, even assuming that a second track from the port of Koper would be built against further corridors, but would be maintained in public ownership of, for example, traffic or other services that do not generate profits or are market-less. This could leave the Republic of Slovenia with what constitutes a potential burden and a public service, and it could be sold out for the market interest and interest of capital in what brings profit. If we keep each other together in society, we can achieve positive effects both on the one hand and on the other with strategic partners and new recapitalisations and the potential regional connectivity of Slovenian railways. However, if the Slovenian Railways could be broken down, it is likely that the current successful segments operating positively would make it more difficult to achieve effective growth and, above all, growth in the interest and interest of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. What we support today with the coordinated text following the amendment of the coalition today is the proposal to harmonise the amendment of the law, which in some ways allows the strategic company of Slovenian Railways to continue throughout the entire segment of its activities, while allowing for the arrival of a strategic partner, the expansion of business, the modernisation and further growth of Slovenian railways as one of the key companies in logistics and the provision of public interest. The Social Democrats will support the existing proposal. However, we will not support the amendments of the United Left, which in some ways preserve the status quo and do not allow growth and development, but in particular do not allow for the regional connectivity of the Slovenian Railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable everyone else! The novel under consideration is the beginning of the privatisation of Slovenian railways. Some SD or others may be so complicated, but this is clear, as it amends Article 5(3) of the Slovenian Railways Act in such a way that when amendments are adopted it is possible to start selling off the business shares of subsidiaries. So far, it has been considered that Slovenian railways are the only owner of subsidiaries. Such ownership is all the more important because the subsidiaries of Slovenian Railways are companies that, as has already been pointed out, are carriers of public services for the management and maintenance of railway infrastructure and, what is often forgotten, passenger transport. In its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the Ministry only notes that, I quote, "... railway infrastructure management activities and rail traffic management activities are of particular importance for the efficient and safe use of rail infrastructure as well as for the efficient and safe diversion of rail freight and passenger transport." End of quote. They also note that, I quote, "Slovenian railways perform mandatory economic public service of passenger transport and the maintenance of public railway infrastructure." End of quote. In short, the public interest is clear and they cannot even be in the ministry. Slovenian railways also set up subsidiaries to carry out public service tasks. By changing the law, we open the door to privatisation. The problem is that Slovenian railways and their subsidiaries are not some classical companies that create a product and market it in the open market. This is a matter of exceptional social importance, which must primarily work in the public interest. Leaving a private, let's be clear, foreign capital in them, which is primarily aimed at maximising profits, will reduce the level of public service provision, as shown by many foreign practices of failed railway privatisations. Let's say very distinctly English. Private capital will not enter ownership structures unless there is no financial advantage. These will be possible mainly by increasing management costs. Despite the fact that the State will apparently retain 50% plus one share, it will have to give up this private capital on certain things if it is to obtain customers for the sale of the business share. That's clear, too. What's that gonna mean? This will mean raising prices for the provision of a compulsory public service, which will primarily benefit private foreign investors at the expense of citizens and citizens, users and users, who will pay for all of this. Unfortunately, most Members and Members do not ride trains, but you may not be so moved. For all these reasons, we will vote in the United Left against the adoption of this law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u54	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure! The new law on the Slovenian Railway Company only brings short compliance with the State Capital Investment Management Strategy and the Slovenian State Holding Act. In the New Slovenia Group we also advocate the entry of private capital into the activities of economic public services. We estimate that private capital is a great opportunity for the development of the entire Slovenian rail system, because otherwise, as has been seen recently, we will not have the development of Slovenian railways for at least 50 years. At this point, it is also worth noting that the European Commission's 2016 report highlights a very low level of private investment between Slovenia's shortcomings. According to the OECD, the level of state ownership in Slovenia is among the highest in Europe, with 42% of the capital being state-owned. As it is said, the issue of colour is only about the urgent alignment of the management strategy with the SDH law. This legal harmonisation is only the first step towards the entry of new owners into the subsidiaries of the Slovenian Railways. In the New Slovenia Group, we hope that the amended provision of the law will not only remain a dead end on paper. We therefore expect state-owned owners to do their utmost to actually bring new owners with them the necessary capital refreshments on the basis of this amended provision. The result would be – and I hope – improved rail infrastructure and benefits for all users, i.e. Slovenian citizens, and consequently for the environment and the economy. Much on the ground we listen to comments about our Slovenian railway infrastructure, what should be done, how slow our trains are, how everything is still a little outdated. I hope that this proposal for a new law on the company of the Slovenian Railways will help solve this issue, improve it, and we will support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. It is about amending legislation that is supposed to be very transparent, but it is becoming increasingly untransparent. Railways like that critical infrastructure that we have already discussed several times in this House, on the multiplier effects of the second track that is somehow not before us. We need to know that the state has to take care of infrastructure and only when it takes care of infrastructure can the economy rise up and we have these multiplier effects, employability. That's what the countries around us do. The proposal goes in this direction to open the door to privatisation. When we look at where private capital can and can best invest, it's about first into the economy, but here's a whole bunch of competition problems, second phase wants to invest in infrastructure, which is the case in some countries. Comrade Trček mentioned the case of England, where they went into privatisation, but now they are returning it back to the country because they found that privatisation had led to the fact that security had fallen terribly, that poor infrastructure had already become worse, both in the area of governance security and the number of accidents had increased. So England decided to take back what it had put into private property. Infrastructure is that critical element that the State must retain. Worse still, the next step is to privatise public administration, where it is a complete monopoly and there is no competition. As we know, this is exactly the monopolistic position of the aspirations of everyone who is on the market. I've already mentioned that the law opens up the possibility of privatisation. The point is that, at the said point, the Commission of the State Council has pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service has warned about the inconsistencies and inconsistencies of this solution, which also increases the possibility that we will make a mistake. Why change the law at all? Is this necessary for coordination or is this necessary with a hidden purpose? When we look at the indicators in the economy ahead of us, we see that gross social product is falling, that death ratings are worse than the European Commission than they are supposed to be, so the country urgently needs money. Of course, such a sale would give us this money, and this money would certainly not be meant to build this infrastructure. I'm interested in the purpose and how and at what cost we're going to sell. If it were to be a share company, and we were to sell shares, then some market value would be determined. I'm afraid we'll be selling again because it's part of a price that will be agreed upon in the future. And because of the untransparent circumstances, the buyer will be able to buy the share we will sell again very cheaply. What are we gonna sell? Certainly what's positive. Of course, we will not find a customer for passenger traffic, but we will find a buyer for freight traffic, which, as statistics show, works well and brings profits. Of course, whoever wants to buy such a share will be looking for a monopoly on the Slovenian market. However, if we invest in another track, these profits will be even higher. So we have to ask ourselves why this change is, what will we achieve with this, what will be the price that we will sell. In view of the economic situation and everything ahead of us, we consider that this is not the right path. Therefore, we will not support the proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u58	Greetings to all present! The legal provision of the current law provides that Slovenian Railways, as founder and sole associate of subsidiaries, cannot share or bring to another person their business share. The new law interferes with the change in the management part of the Slovenian Railway company as it seeks to bring the proposal into line with the existing and applicable capital investment management system. The current provision is not in line with the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy adopted in July 2015 and thus does not allow for the necessary adaptation to market conditions. In this way it is possible to dispose of the company’s business share if, in view of the market situation, this would prove to be a prudent and rational management of the company. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Slovenian Railway Company, d.o.o., is a company of particular importance for the Republic of Slovenia and falls under strategic state investment and therefore the strategy already defines that the State will retain at least 50% and one share. The management strategy ensures independent, professional and efficient management by the State's capital investment manager, on the one hand, and the separation of the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State, thus preventing conflicts of interest, distortion of competition in the markets and unequal treatment of economic companies. The state of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia demonstrates the need for modernisation, which would be easier to implement by seeking private partners in minority shares, so we will support the proposal for a law on the company of Slovenian Railways in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled Please? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u60	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u61	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. It may seem procedurally ridiculous to someone, but it is very serious because it relates to some basic physiological needs. As a Member of the United Left, as the person I know the most about this subject, I will just do this matter here. I asked the expert to bring me water, he brought me water in a cup of Slovenian Railways, and he quickly received a warning from the security guards that we must remove it. In short, the matter could even be said to be unconstitutional, because all Members and Members are not alike because the Presidents have the opportunity to drink water during the debate. We are not the same members of the opposition and the coalition, because then we should not have this personal gift from our colleague Škodnik in this room. In short, I will not lock up, but in many parliaments where I have been, Members can drink water if it is not branded. Okay, this was the Slovenian Railway State Brand, and I'm going to talk to the Secretary-General about this. You know, a man of my dimensions has to drink three, four liters of water a day. I hope we can work this out. And I'm asking you to let me come to the debate twice because I'm going to go in between a glass of water to sleep. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. As for this water, let me tell you, we have basically voting devices and microphones, and in an open packaging, water can be poured onto the device. I don't have a voting device. Plus, you have the opportunity to leave the hall, and the chairman has to sit here for at least two hours and monitor the meeting. So you can certainly report yourself twice, three times, five times, ten times because of me, so there are no problems. But I suggest you also speak to the secretary general to give you an additional answer. Here you go, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u64	Look, I'm going to be very brief, Madam President. I take my work very seriously and if it is not very necessary, I do not want to leave the hall because I am participating in the debate and I am also monitoring what others are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I totally understand. There is also a house order, I suggest you read it and then we can proceed with the meeting. I wouldn't have any reservations if we had water under the table in a closed bottle, we could have a drink, but on the voting machine or on the table it's very disturbing, because things are so that water can actually flow. Now, if you'll excuse me, we'll proceed. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments or amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate the first article and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Please, for your application. The first is Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u66	The Joint Left proposes to Article 1 that this Article be deleted. We do not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, because Article 1 is clearly very clear. The Slovenian Railway Company, as the founder and associate of subsidiaries, can have a business share in a separate subsidiary, but only in accordance with the Republic of Slovenia’s Capital Investment Management Strategy. That is to say, if we respect legislation, then only on the basis of this strategy can we do so. Of course, it is also clear that both the Slovenian Railway parent company and all other subsidiaries remain a strategic investment, which is majority owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The matter is perfectly clear and there are no doubts here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Because it's a very nice topic, I'm gonna take some time. But I will start with the amendments and the answers to what the gentleman on behalf of the SDS has said and what my former student has now spoken on behalf of the SD. But even the matter would have started with yesterday, when Prime Minister Cerar answered our questions and almost the best of his words, if we went to watch the magnetogram, it was – the government recommends. We also know who wrote SDH laws and bad bank laws if we now limit ourselves to this part of the state's property. We know why these laws have been written in such a way that both SDH and DUTB are separate universes, because then every government can almost say what the current one does very successfully, in a way, her, and we can't interfere here, that's how it goes. And then somehow, if I metaphorically say, foxes have long been a career guarding chickens. Some excuse that we have here, because of the strategy of managing state property in such a defective way, I hope to say, a way of writing legislation and even more unfortunate implementation in practice does not actually drink water. I will partly explain it in a long and broad manner, but in part the representative of the unrelated Members replied. Even as a criticism, because the United Left is rejecting this, it will not be possible to do that and that, regional integration and so on. Legal regional entities may also be associated with the intentions, cooperation, signing some common agreements, how they will cooperate and so forth, without the need for entry, let us be frank about German railways in Slovenian railways, partly Austrian railways, where they are particularly interested in what is profitable. It is profitable for the time being and will be a load for some time, but I am a little afraid that in the medium, long-term, this will also become less profitable due to the unresponsible work of all governments and all the national assemblies of this country since its independence. Very domestically, this second track I would have been digging for you in this time of year. We're talking about the second track now. This already shows that in this country you do not have an understanding of some key critical basic infrastructure. As a spatial sociologist, I come from the so-called English School of Urban Technology, where we also take railway infrastructure as one of the basic social infrastructures. This public passenger service is often forgotten. For example, an ex-coworker with the FDV explained to me the problem of her mother coming from Koroška during the weekend to Ljubljana. This is an impossible mission. You're almost in New York at the same time. When my mother, because of the work I have here, has to come from the White Landscape to Maribor, it is back on the railway, but you know, a journey that lasts and lasts. And then he usually says to me, "Well, what are you even getting upset about, look, you have Ljubljana-Maribor, this is the 21st century. If you're going down our white line, you have a station just outside Ivančno Gorica that's so high that you think the train's gonna turn up. It's kind of a thing you forget. Why? Serious companies didn't do it, they arranged this infrastructure just like that. I also hear long and wide in the presentation of one of the parties sent on green development, such an economy up and down. The railways have come to us with economic development, modernisation, industrialisation. Today, some companies who think they are themselves are also in the middle of rail passenger traffic. People are inauthentic beings, according to our own words, we're born as newborns. If they were born so qualified, mothers would die in childbirth. We're also entropy creatures, which means we're very polluting. This is precisely why companies who think themselves, that the railway is combined by the city with a light rail, with tram, after all with new trolls, in Salzburg is one of the key transport backbones, which is more ecologically suitable and which also allows for some commoditative movement in time, space, if you want, workers who still have work to do, that do not come drawn to the shaft or from the shaft, plus, of course, all other categories, in particular by listening to the so-called handicapped, endangered categories. For example, go to Porta, with whom I have worked, and see what a light railway is made there. In a way, it is not meant to be because of Mr Lach, that the door opens so that the tractor of Mr Lach could probably be parked in his building, but is meant to be because of someone in a wheelchair who comes in or is mobilely obstructed. That's not funny, that's sad. I did research for Slovenian railways in my previous aggregate state and they told me, 'her, Mr. Trček, not too loud to speak, because we know that we would like to from Kamnik and up there, down modal split saved in such a way that we would put bicycles on trains, but we do not have money for it. Why there's no money, you're basically responsible. Not to mention how to build a track, Mr Weber will surely say something about it, because it is his constituency, in the direction of Kočevje-Ribnica or Dr Pravlovnik, if he comes. Well, I mean well. This is a very pressing matter, which I have already pointed out in this National Assembly in another light, perhaps Mr Gorenak would know more about it than I do in the light of the reserves. If there's a serious earthquake, a flood, I don't know where you're going to have bread flour to burn in Ljubljana, in your own words. We know where our main supply reserves are, we know what the state of the railway was there, we could tell you technical information, but if you don't know so much about it, I don't know if it'll mean much to you. Railways were neglected — why? It is also likely that they are not mainly used by senior civil servants and Members and Members. If I were to ask you now, when was the last time you took the train, it might not be a good time, because now you have joined Prevcu a little while, but you drove to Kranj, and there in Kranj the Audi Mr Cerar laufal and Mr Cerar sat in and returned to Ljubljana. Thus, the apparently executive authority represents the circular economy. When this government was burned, I went to look at Tomšič. You had all the ministers' cars parked on Tomšič, two-thirds had a motorcycle on fire, and they settled down and drove to the first government meeting. I would have fired you from the peanuts. Any little clever pianist would say, "Go to Šubičeva and walk to the first government meeting." But why am I telling you this? I am telling you this because it is very clear what is the relationship, what is the mental scheme in this society and the country to this important issue. After all, there's something about you, I don't want to be ugly, a hammer that has to follow this theme, and we're not really dealing with this topic. I'm gonna stop here now, and I'm gonna come by again, 'cause I'm gonna get some water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u69	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. If we look at the data, we can find that 80% or even a few more traffic on our railways is actually international transport. This proves that we are in an extremely important geostrategic position and are crossing important European corridors here. As a result, there is certainly a very strong interest in investing not only in railway infrastructure, but also in the rolling stock itself, if I may say so, both freight and freight transport in particular, which, in the last period at least after the information presented by the Director of the Slovenian Railways on the Committee, when this law was discussed, has indeed reached a very envious level. A few years ago or five years ago, freight traffic generated almost 25 million losses, today creating 10 million profits. So in a relatively short reflection, there is a very large leap, which means that, in the meantime, nothing special has happened in modernising rail infrastructure can obviously achieve very good results with a slightly better organisation. Finally, we have also proved that our Slovenian railways obviously also have a very good organisation of work, and in this short time such a big leap proves this more than clearly. I hope that all this information will also be presented to future investors, which this law is also supposed to bring to Slovenia or to the freight transport of Slovenian railways. Legislation, now in force, currently in force law on the company of Slovenian Railways makes it impossible to sell subsidiaries. However, the fact is that we must have not only this ability to organise urban freight very well in a very short time, but also have before us the fact that, while we are talking about the development of logistics in Slovenia, we can find out from the studies that have been done that it is intended to increase freight traffic by 110% by 2030 and 160% by 2040. So an increase of 35 million tonnes by 2030 and 43 million tonnes by 2050. These are exceptional quantities, and this shows that in fact we are very optimistic about the development of freight transport. Given that this high-speed freight traffic is directly involved on the railways, 68 % is passenger transport, the modernisation of the rail infrastructure, particularly for the construction of the second rail track and, as a result, the early expansion of the ports of Koper, will dramatically increase this traffic. If we are also discovered, the main traffic, the main cargo comes directly from Luka Koper and this is also the biggest opportunity for Slovenian railways. This new information, if I may say so, because we have not yet come to the point of intensively starting to build a second track shows that in the future we will have a very, very, very profitable company in the Slovenian Railways on freight transport. We can't ignore that. When deciding which strategic partner to bring to the Slovenian Railways, this will have to have very jealous results. So I expect that this will have better results than freight traffic in Slovenian railways. In my view, this would be one very important criterion if we were to talk about bringing a strategic partner. I also think that we are all aware that all cargo travelling through the Slovenian network cannot, in any way, be brought only by our operator and that the system of action of the European Union is actually designed and organised so that it is an open market and that you must also enable other operators to drive our tracks. Again, this dilemma is how much competition there will be in this area and whether this new investor will actually allow us to extend to other markets, so not only to the cargo which is of origin, if I may say so, in Slovenia or Luka Koper to the greatest extent, as much as we will participate in other sources of cargo with the possible inclusion of another strategic investor in the Slovenian Railways or in freight transport. I think it is a very difficult moment before all those who are planning this step right now, because it will have to be very precise to define this decision, especially in terms of what I have said is that it is an added value that does not enter into this society by someone who has less traffic, who wants to solve their traffic in fact at the expense of Slovenian railways or freight transport on Slovenian railways. Last but not least, if we look at Mercator's sale, which happened in this way, Agrokor, who was a significantly more indebted company, took over Mercator and thereby saved himself. If the sale of freight traffic is going in the direction of saving another operator, it is certainly not a good decision or not that it is not a good decision, it simply must not come to this in my behaviour and in my view the development of the Slovenian Railways and also the cargo defined in these studies, which I have mentioned, in exceptional quantities. If the rating will only be made in a way that within Slovenian railways is paid the debt that Slovenian railways have, because when you go to purchase locomotives, wagons, these are not small purchases, these are large amounts and no debt goes here. Only this criterion, to relieve the debt of Slovenian railways at a certain level, will also overstep the criteria, as this obligation to manage is already under way and the increase in traffic is even easier. It is true that when traffic increases, it will be necessary to consider getting new means of transport, new locomotives, to be an additional cost. And it will also have to be considered whether it is a more favourable source of debt and then you pay with the intended transport of cargo this obligation or someone with equity enters and does not have to be indebted, and how much is that profit, if I may say, which will remain in the parent company or in that share that will belong to Slovenia, how much in that share that will belong to a foreign investor. Given that the text of the law is also being amended to take into account the Capital Investment Management Strategy, I would also draw attention to this provision in the fifteenth paragraph of the Chapter on Slovenian Railways, i.e. Chapter 6. 5. 2. In paragraph 15, it is very well stated that "trafficking is a market activity, so it is possible to make use of this investment under the condition of legislative change," which is happening at this moment, "and to improve the general economic situation." So a very general assessment, an improvement in the economic situation. We have already achieved real economic growth in the past period, and envy in comparison with other countries of the European Union, it is significantly higher than elsewhere, but it could be even higher if we included the banking system in the economy, as in all normal countries, this system is also organised. If I refer here to the data recently presented by Umar for Slovenia that it can follow in the coming periods, years of economic growth, then this is an alarm that will certainly have to be taken into account in this process. Thus, the reduction of economic growth, as predicted by Umar, limits you to the fact that this process can be carried out under these assumptions, as expressed by the National Assembly of its political will and authority, by the adoption of such a decision. The decree is not a law, but it is an expression of political will or of Parliament's influence. However, Umar is talking about the economic situation getting worse, and interestingly, during this period, this is about a year and a half or two years, it was really not enough to build a second track. If we already had a second track in construction today, we could talk about whether the fall in European funds, which is one of the reasons why the decline in economic growth between 2017 and 2008, would not be so extensive or significant if this investment had already taken place. This train, we can say, has taken off for these two years, which means that we can expect at least two years of very in-depth discussions, analyses of what will happen to freight traffic already due to the forecast of the decline in economic growth in Slovenia. Of course, we are also deeply attached to the foreign market. When we talk about the foreign market and when we take part in our debates and positions, which we represent as Slovenia within the European Union, I will also recall the embargo that applies to the Russian Federation, the decline in economic growth is also due to this within the European Union, so our markets, the external markets are affected, as a result we feel the consequences in Slovenia. This will also be one of the debates that will need to be driven in the direction or and how we will ensure as much traffic as possible in the so-called Adriatic-Baltic Corridor. If this traffic is higher, then we can talk about whether the price of freight transport or of Slovenian railways, subordinated to Freight Transport, will be significantly higher than it will not be. So even a number of data and measures must be pursued before a decision is taken to resale extremely profitable freight traffic already today, and in the future this enormously profitable company will certainly be, because these taxes that Slovenia has are truly exceptional and no other country in this part of the North Adriatic, and it is a major challenge for Central Europe, as I have already said, even until the Baltic Sea, to take advantage of this situation. By adopting this law, it enters into a very difficult area, and I hope that it will not be simplified to understand that the light given by the National Assembly is green, that it is now being done in some very short time anything. It will be very important to consider all these steps, and I hope that the final decision will be such that we can all explain in Slovenia why this decision has occurred, how much more will there be in fact a successful income in the state budget, how much more employees we will have, how much will we have added value, how much less burden we will have in the pension system, etc. In short, very short marriage, but extremely important, very difficult content is in this law that we have today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. As far as the law is concerned, some interesting words were said in the debate. One was in this sense, we're going into something that means selling good investments, why the state would sell some, I'll say, good companies that make profits and keep only some bad ones. This debate is eternal. If we go from Slovenian freight transport to a more resilient society, let's say a restaurant created by a private person with his own capital, with the work of family members, and we have a restaurant, where the owner of the country that has the back budget, is a taxpayer's budget. They're both making a profit. At one point this traffic goes down, and that private company is worried, it's just before the crash, while that state company says, "If you do, we'll pay from the taxpayer's money." What I'm saying is that when we're on the market somewhere, like two taverns, I'm not in favour of the country being there with its society. Let those privates have it. I agree that the country is where the privates don't want to be, but there is still some kind of public service to be provided. So I am not surprised if the state is involved in some cases that are not the most profitable, but are necessary from the point of view of some public needs. As far as freight transport is concerned, I am sure that this traffic is one of those with a relatively bright future in Slovenia. I'm more skeptical about passenger traffic for a simple reason because passengers are not enough. We just don't have enough citizens. At the same time, we are turning around in that vicious circle when it does not invest much in railways and, as a result, there are fewer who would otherwise be interested in travelling by trains. Passenger traffic is a category, at least in my eyes that I'm not most optimistic about. As far as the cargo is concerned, of course. However, I would like to point out that on the working body we have heard the director of the Slovenian Railway Company, who said that the company was in a loss, that it is currently doing well, but that they also want business extensions. It is also said that there is a second-track breakthrough and that they do not see these options in this property, as laid down by the current law. Therefore, to see the possibility of this expansion on other tracks with some strategic integration, it is also said by the entry of foreign capital. It seems to me that this vision of this company is perfectly logical. Already today, other carriers are carrying cargo along Slovenian railways, and I believe that the freight traffic of Slovenian railways or this company must be competitive with others. As has been said, it is likely that a new rolling stock, new trains, will come to foreign markets, and I hope and believe that those strategic partners that will be chosen or will be one will be one that will make it possible for all of this to be allowed to recapitalise a company that will allow some new financial resources to enter some foreign markets. And another such eternal dilemma, why don't we create it ourselves with some organic growth. I believe that, given the extent of our economy, it is quite difficult. We have neighbouring countries, which are substantially larger, even ten times as far as the economy is concerned, and to achieve by organic growth what they achieve, based on the scale of their economy, is, I think, even illusory. So I believe that these plans regarding the acquisition of a strategic partner are those that also lead this society in the right direction. I believe that in some way this company will also be privatised in part in accordance with the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy Decision and that there will be fewer impacts that we sometimes see, in which the economy reminds us that the state must still withdraw more from the economy. And not just the economists, but also the OECD and some other organisations warn us. As far as the amendment of the United Left is concerned, we will not support this in the SMC Group. This amendment deletes the first and practically only article of the law; the second article is only as regards the validity of the law. If anyone is against this law, he will vote against the law. I think such an amendment is unnecessary in itself. Thus, this solution, which is offered by this amendment, is in fact resolved by voting for or against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, again. I hope you're listening to what you've been saying. I hope that I will never be as aggregate as Mr Weber, who would be better off joining the United Left, which he probably will not do. If I come from what Mr Weber said, what Mr Zorčič said, I hope, I believe, I believe, I do not wish to be insulting, I am more agnostic than anything else, but I believe that this Parliament can do much better. And before we could adopt this law, we should have what Mr Weber said, we should see where the dog is praying and then making decisions. Since I have plenty of time, I will explain on some occasion the geothermal concessions that the government quietly made at the extraordinary session on December 30th, thinking that we are all then somewhere, and no one will watch. From the Minister I wanted one simple 30-hole table to tell me how much it is, how much water is, how much water is coming back, how much would you like to make another reservation, how much per concession, how much is it? She said we'd do it first, then we'll give it to you. That's how you handle this story. And that's the way we've been doing it, or you've been doing it for 20 years. Parliament is not an institution where we will work the way I believe. I have too many kids, too many, I could have more if I had a better salary. I have so many kids, and I know in resocialization that a kid wants to fuck you a little bit sometimes, in his own words. And in this way we are adopting such very important legislation. Secondly, the whole debate here is just one silver egg with the potential of a golden egg, as Mr Weber has defined, although we do not know what will happen in 2050. Look, even professional life I deal with social development indicators. Let's be clear about what's going to happen in 2050, we don't know. And I hope that most of us will still be alive. But what's going to happen, so long extensions can't be done because there's just too many things going to happen in between. We don't talk about the network itself. Only the network and maintenance of this will never produce enough money to make it profitable for someone. Debt. As, Vinagi, Darcy, railways, such infrastructures, critical, key are always somewhat indebted. You will rarely find such an institution so that you will not be in charge. Such institutions of public interest. Of course, this debt must be such that you do not slap together, and it must be wise to develop infrastructure with it. Anyone who knows little about infrastructure, about infrastructure development policies, knows that. Let's move on. Who will this partner be? They also make it very clear on the railway that the partners are no more east than Slovenia. In short, from some former Yugoslavia, if you want, because they're even worse off than we are. Well, Croatian railways are getting a little better. I worked with them, too. They had quite a few corrupt stories, the police were walking on HZ infrared and so on. The only partner that's actually in this game, let's stop blinding ourselves, are German railways. Maybe partly Austrian railways. German railways are also our competitor. Someone can buy you and step into co-ownership so that even in this way, a little burden can make you impossible. The German ports are competing with the North Adriatic ports. We are not talking about joining the nuclear network, except for the DRI, which there is some money exercising a little bit around this, about some key connection of Divaca-Trst. I do not know anything that Mr Erjavec and the MZZ, in conjunction with other ministries, would exert a little more pressure in this direction. Of course, this is not so much in Italy's interest, which I also frankly told the new ambassador when we first met him, but it is in our vital interest. It is also in our vital interest to connect and expand this core network, if you want, against the Balkans, against the Black Sea. We've already talked about this with the Romanians and we'll talk again. We're not talking about the so-called modern silk road that's already built, where the Chinese are working hard to actually get on land by train as fast or as fast as the sea route. How are we gonna get into this? These are some of the topics that I would like to start here, and here, in fact, the largest party with 35 Members, will report 15 minutes of debate and the SDS will report 20 minutes. That is your attitude towards infrastructure, gentlemen, to the apologising. Maybe you think it's some kind of banal change that we have to make for this and this. We also said about public investment strategies and their management that we will be discussing over time what these strategies are. Whether or not they are suitable. That if I put it that way, we're going to be recasting these kinds of strategies. It would actually be some kind of circle to do some weight analysis. No one who's a little smart and responsible and in a position to sell this kind of stuff if it's already on sale, which we're opposed to when some pointers start to show you a little bit worse because they're holding you back from saying what. And even from this point of view, this is actually irresponsible. If I refer to Mr Zorčič, most of the metaphors in this national council are around the car, especially in the male population of Members. Which also points very clearly to our mental scheme. We just got to the inn. The inn is also very important, regardless of ownership structures, it can also be a cooperative after all what these innkeepers offer. And today, in the 21st century, you're driving from Maribor with a rocker for 5 hours to Koper, and you can't even buy a sandwich. Why is that? Because of the outsourcing of these matters, it went from the railways out, the company had to become thin, it was called a disability company, which is not my favorite word, but maybe some little cousin got a second and a third. The only train you can eat on is the one going to Vienna. You know, this is the standard of the 19th century, please! And according to the existing Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, I would find articles by which ministers who had this in the department should go to prison. I'm not kidding. I'm serious. You know, these are things we should be doing. No, Mr Zorčič said, "We are too few in Slovenia." So little free interpretation for some serious passenger traffic. And that's what the Chairman of the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee says. And I don't want to be insulting to you, pal. It's an area you don't know how to handle. I don't even handle a whole bunch of legal cases. Denmark does not have a lot more people than Slovenia, and this is very respectable. Switzerland has a very similar, even more complex geographical structure than we do, and it has already decided there in the early 1980s that rail infrastructure will be one of their key backbones. By then the geese had been so developed and had gone to make the optimisation that no one would have more than half an hour to the train station. Okay, a couple of people on some kind. [[Incomprehensible]] But the optimisation went this way. And if you look at Swiss cities today, it's not some bullshit, the city's chicken, but they have some urban tail and a head that comes from being a rail intermodal hub one of the key hubs of the city. We should talk about that, too. But no, now you're just wondering how we're going to sell an egg chicken or open a sales gap because, I don't know, maybe at breakfast of a chamber like that or another or at this or third ambassador somehow whispered it. It's terrible for me, I have to admit. Such irresponsibility is terrifying to me. After all, such a lack of visibility is terrifying, and it is terrifying to talk about being almost alone in the world. The Ponteba track was made, and the Austrians joked for some time that they had the most expensive art project when they stopped the connection from Mura to Koroška, and they put a billion more into it. However, it may be necessary to force all public and public officials to use such infrastructure more in some way. You know what country you have in which country you have very clear legislation where they penalize you if you take a car to the airport. Which is very logical. You will have a company, here you are, the National Assembly, and so many parking areas, the city will charge you, but if you sign that you will use public passenger traffic, you will not. When we sat down this National Assembly, and it was the first week of mobility, I went to my colleague, Mr. Brglez, and I said, "Look, Milan, it's a week of mobility, good morning, good day!" He said, "Do you know where I live?" I said, "Of course I know where you live." You could also draw him a modal split. These are some of the gestures that are expected. And this is this plant in your head that needs to be done. We're going to be something that, as colleague Weber said, the golden egg, we're going to sell a little bit over the thumb, we're not going to develop the infrastructure because we're too small. I mean, what kind of message is that? And I can tell my kids, let's go buy some good suitcases, get out of this Slovenia! This is also irresponsible for a whole range of people who are already already handicapped. Mostly because they're financially handicapped. It's sad, you know, that train from Maribor that I'm driving with, that's some of us last Mohicans, but sometimes I get the feeling that it's an internal train of Slovenian Railways, Eizenponars going to Ljubljana for education, for exams. If we touch logistics, it's also an irresponsible attitude towards logistics. We have a university of logistics – you know how you destroyed Intereuropa, someone can be a super counterintelligence, but they can't immediately become a director of a logistics company. He knows who did it. He knows where the responsibility is. You know, some terminal strains, up and down. If we were to take our infrastructure seriously, we should be thinking from Divac a double screw down. I would like to beat someone because in 25 years you did not allow me to come from Maribor at the latest than in two and a half hours to the sea! Someone should be beaten because it is not possible to say yes, but now the Committee on Agriculture will have a meeting at the back of Slovenian Istria, and we would shake hands on the train and drive there in 40, 45 minutes. But why? Because you were obsessed with cars. There is another very important macroeconomic aspect. In railway infrastructure – and here I am talking about trams and light railways – you can never externalise as much as on highways. You can never take that much cost to the end user. For this reason, it is necessary to think, think and build about such an infrastructure with a little more intelligence. And connect. Look, I'll tell you another story. I was working on the project because we wanted to integrate Urbane and the railway card. And then I was that person, among others from Slovenia, the one who was brainwashed by the European Commission in Brussels, why don't you do that. As long as I had a suitcase full of stuff and said, "Boys, I'll tell you why." Urbana – Really, second card more SDS. Good morning, good morning! At the time, despite the favor of a secretary of state who wanted to do so. That's what we have, I'd say. That's why we're in some aggregate state that we're in. But obviously you're not interested in this. You have a car in the garage parked, now the tires will have to be replaced slowly. After all, trains would be easier to travel. As an MP driving a train, I also work on a train. And then I come to Ljubljana and sometimes I have half a suitcase because I'm ready, let's work. Some of them are still waking up. They need three more coffees in the morning. And from responsibility to your safety, after all. I'm surprised at these sessions of ours when we've been grooming Carla for 20 hours, that one day someone will do something about it, especially on these paths of yours, when you think you can drive them blindly. A whole series of things you obviously don't even see. One message from the coalition or SMC is, "because we're too few, buy a car or collect for a taxi, they won't invest in it." The second message is obviously, "we're stupid enough to sell ourselves at a price." The third message is, "we're not smart enough to think about what our geoposition is." In fact, most European countries, except Finland, Portugal, etc. At least two corridors somehow prevent competition from happening here. The third message is, "we think too much, not even Eurocentric, but eucentric." Well, another candidate for entry for co-privatisation would probably be China, which is unlikely to be possible due to geostrategic positions and pressure on the Slovenian government. Let us be honest about these matters. All these unthinking plus excuses that I have heard here, plus what Comrade Bojan and colleague Janko have said, somehow show if we go into what we do not agree on, we should not go in the way that we are doing. Now we're going to open something without thinking about what's going to happen, what's going to happen, and so on. Then maybe someone'll jump in and hit us again, just like we did that back-terminal study about the second track. The study is written by one guy who is too bad that we let him go from Slovenia because he was actually a doctor on the highway cross and now he's working on the OECD and they've washed his head there. This also shows that we do not know how to control our personnel. Such a young man should stay there at the Ministry because it is understood how such projects are managed, and it is not possible that some TES 7 would produce or such. There is a gentleman in there who has been in a competitive German port for years. I'm embarrassed. I do a lot of this parliamentary diplomacy, and often when you get confidence in these people, when they start asking you a little bit like that, "Good morning, will you start thinking soon?" So I'm embarrassed. It's really kind of embarrassing to me. From all this story that I'm listening to here, and from the fact that you're not even interested in any debate, except for one Member with me and except for one slightly more in-depth position of unrelated Members, it shows that I use a little colloquial language, "down hangs" or you don't realize whether you're so much, I don't want to be too rude, "sold soul". But this is definitely an irresponsible attitude towards some key infrastructure. Look, railways are one of the world's biggest employees. India’s railway recently said that they needed to improve their operations and establish their university, their academy, so that they could learn a little more. Google a little, you don't just have to Google what the Fire says about the United Left. To learn a little. A whole bunch of privatisations turned out to be a fiasco. Why? As I said before, such infrastructure is too complex, too costly for a legal entity to manage it properly. Especially in passenger traffic. If you let more entities in, usually, there are more accidents, I could tire you out with statistics, but I won't. You, of course, will be this marriage, as it appears, "burn" because you believe. I'm kind of afraid we're going to get some co-ownership infrastructure where someone's going to play quietly. According to everything, I can't say otherwise than incompetence or maybe bribery or combined with appropriate lobbying, there won't be another track for quite some time. If I didn't speak, here I could tie myself to Lach's masonry, but why wouldn't a foreign tourist sit in Ljubljana and be in Mirna Peca and have Gad's Pecchi drink a cricket and ride a train. But of course your mindset is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Lord Igor Zorčič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Trček, you have mentioned earlier why we have not reserved any more time for this debate. If you could afford it for a debate like this, then we'd better not have it. Because it was just a three-day debate, I don't know, you said you had time on the train to think long and wide and that you were doing a lot of work, then I would expect you to do more today than just propose that one article be deleted. Around this, however, there is a huge amount of debate to discredit fellow Members, if you do not know each other, you are corrupt, you are sold souls and so on. We said well why we proposed this marriage. To align it with the Capital Investment Management Strategy, which we adopted last year. I want to know how much you talked about Slovenian Railways last year. Probably nothing. We can check it out. But the management of these companies is written down there. It is only today that we provide for the law to be aligned with the strategy itself in terms of these equity shares. And now say that we are now because we've adopted this marriage because maybe we'll get some foreign investor that we've sold everything now that we've given the golden egg to you know what I'm going to tell you about the golden egg? [[…]] I had a colleague who went to Serbia in 1991 because he was the father of the war face and then said a few years later when we talked about what they said to him in Serbia: "What will Slovenia do without us, we are the grain of Europe." And these kind of flossules. Just like we do now, we have golden eggs. He also said, "Half a year later, we got international aid, Mlin flour, Dobova." Really, that's what he said. He said, "Here's the deal about how we were the grain of Europe." I suggest that we don't operate on how we are a golden egg, and I don't know what, because then we would be the second, third largest in Europe, because then I don't know where that came from, but that we're real. If the director of the Slovenian Railways, who runs this company, who will not last, if he does not lead well, fly away from this function, if he says they can't, we have a strategy of capital investments that allows us to do so under certain conditions, then I suggest we release this law as it was established last year, and we also give this opportunity to think about it. Now say, "Yes, and you just believe..." Of course I do. I'm an optimist. Who's not the optimist in this house, I don't know, I don't know if it's such a time to start pessimism. I think we need to look positive at the future. And now because of this, what is the purpose of judging someone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u77	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I'm going to partially abuse the procedure. Look, I'm an expert on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u79	No abuse, please. You can't abuse [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u80	Infrastructural development and as such, I'm talking to you about what you're saying, I'm talking to her. [[...]] Hello!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u81	Excuse me? What is your procedural proposal, Dr. Franz Ducky?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u82	The procedural proposal is that I stop being insulted as an expert on infrastructure development. We can stop the session. We can go take a look at COBISS. I can give him some of my book. It is my duty as a Member to warn you when you act so irresponsible that I do not say what I have at the end of my tongue. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Tuesday, 29th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on court fees on a regular basis. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. What a lovely greeting to all present Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees regulates the area of tax advantages more appropriately. Next, I will present some of the key innovations that the novelty brings. The most important thing is that the conditions for all such exemption are changing. After the new exemption, it will no longer be linked to the fulfilment of the conditions for monetary social assistance, but can be applied by any party whose payment of the legal fee would significantly reduce the means of subsistence. So it's a broader, easier-to-achievable criteria. Notwithstanding that criterion, a party that fulfils the material conditions for receiving regular free legal aid, a monthly income of up to EUR 577 and a maximum of EUR 14 000 will be entitled to the full exemption. Therefore, the Court will not judge or, and what such advantage it should assess, but will grant it the full exemption on the basis of the material facts found. With regard to the deferral period and the annual payment of court fees, we propose a limit of 24 months, with the possibility of an extension in exceptional circumstances. In view of the increased payment discipline, we also propose that, in the event of a delay in payment of a particular fee, the maturity of all other unpaid payments should be determined. For legal persons and entrepreneurs, we propose a limit whereby they will have to pay the initial EUR 44 fees, which means that this fee also includes most of the procedures at the COVL, the Central Department for the authentic instrument, and only the remaining amount can be forgiven. More amendments are also proposed on the procedure for deciding on the eligibility of tax advantages. The parties will apply these entitlements substantially easier than they are now, will provide only basic data and data on potential income and property abroad, while customer income and property data and their family members in the Republic of Slovenia will be determined by the courts by official duty. To this end, a legal basis for electronic access by courts to relevant databases shall also be established. In doing so, and I would like to stress this, it will be the same data, i.e. the same databases as will be used to decide on the right to free legal aid and social rights. Therefore, for all the social benefits, if I can jointly name them, the official bodies will use the same bases and the material situation will be judged in the same way. Let me also point out that the proposal adds such benefits to workers, namely, individual labour disputes fees due to the payment of cash claims from the employment relationship before the courts of the first instance will no longer have to be paid when the action is brought, but only at the end of the proceedings, at the time of the award of the judgment. Workers who submit a proposal to open bankruptcy proceedings against the employer who is more than two months late for payment of minimum wages and contributions will not have to pay the fees for the bankruptcy proposal. The proposal also adds that, following a new exemption from the payment of court fees, indirect budgetary users who are wholly owned by the municipalities will be made available. To conclude, I would also like to propose that because the business conditions are met, I propose to the National Assembly that the third reading of the bill be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Germany, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At its 19th meeting, on 9 March, the Committee of Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and published on the website of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council, the opinion of the Council of State and the letter of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs. Ms Valentino Marolt, the State Secretary, has just presented the opinion of the Ministry, so I would like to continue with Mrs Valentino Marolt, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who raised two issues in her presentation of the written legal opinion, namely the extension of the exemption of such obligations and the level of individual court fees. It argued that such exemptions constituted an exception to the rule that the parties partly covered the costs associated with the work of the courts and that such exemptions should therefore be considered restrictively and in particular the principle of equality before the law. However, in determining the amount of court fees, it is important to be careful that the increase in existing court fees does not act as an unacceptable restriction on the possibility of access to judicial protection. State Councilwoman Bojana Potovcje presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which, as a positive change, assessed the acquisition of data on the material situation of the parties by the courts by virtue of an official duty. It raised the issue of the protection of personal data while collecting both the citizens' single home number and the tax numbers. A representative of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs, Director Goran Forbici proposed extending the range of entities which are exempt from payment of judicial fees to all legal persons recognised by the State as acting in the public interest, not only for humanitarian and disability organisations, as provided for in the law in force. Furthermore, he expressed his conviction that in the case of labour disputes due to the payment of financial claims from the employment relationship of the judicial fee should not be determined at all. In the debate, the opposition Members felt that in working relations procedures they should protect the weakest, namely workers who are not paid by employers to pay their labour obligations and the fact that they have to pay their fees, constitute an obstacle to the exercise of their rights. The most vulnerable groups should also be protected in other procedures for charging judicial fees. They also pointed out the non-conformity of the determination of a circle of entities with regard to the obligation to pay fees in the Law on Court Fees and the Law on Administrative Fees. They also pointed out that the Law on Judicial Fees had already changed too many times, especially with regard to the imposition of judicial fees. Coalition Members stressed that the proposal for a law brings more positive solutions. These provisions actually allow for the right to effective judicial protection. They highlighted the importance of equal treatment before national and judicial authorities concerning the property situation, which means greater legal predictability and greater legal certainty and the elimination of administrative obstacles to the acquisition of data by official duty. With regard to the exemption of the payment of court fees to NGOs that have expressed the hope that this issue will be regulated by the law on non-governmental organisations prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration, which is also the basis for the Law on Judicial Fees. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting. I also very much welcome the distinguished Secretary of State, Mrs Tina Brecelj, and co-worker! The notice of the Law on Court Fees in the first instance removes the constitutional non-compliance of Article 11 of the Law on Judicial Fees, thereby allowing for the full exemption of payment of court fees for the parties. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we welcome the move by Minister Klemenčič, which introduces into the law the possibility of full exemption from the payment of legal fees for persons for whom the payment of this fee would mean a significant reduction in the resources for her life or for the survival of her family members. The fact is that so far, regulation has placed the weakest in the worst position, since it is precisely these proceedings that have not been initiated due to high court fees. At this point, we all agree that equality before the law, as laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is necessary. In other words, this means that all citizens must have the same opportunity to access the courts, regardless of their property status. Thus, the full exemption from the payment of court fees will no longer be linked to the receipt of financial social assistance or the fulfilment of the conditions for receiving it. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also ruled that such conditionality is constitutionally inconsistent. In any event, the full exemption will be justified by a party whose monthly income or monthly average income per family member does not exceed two basic amounts of the minimum income in the Social Security Benefits Act. The amendment also establishes a legal basis for electronic access to courts, to databases set out in the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Such establishment of a link between courts and databases will also mean the free collection of data by official duty. In the Desus Group, we also support a change aimed at lowering the costs of municipalities, since among the exempt fees there are also indirect budget users who are wholly owned by municipalities. Let me remind you, it's a government commitment that, given the reduced amount of the averages, will reduce the costs to the municipalities. The amount saved for municipalities is thus approximately EUR 330 000. In the Desus Group, we will support the amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees, which, among other things, brings more attention to social weaknesses and removes administrative obstacles, imposes greater predictability of proceedings and, most importantly, new provisions exercise the right to effective and effective judicial protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees, which will be supported by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, is followed in particular by the removal of the constitutional non-compliance of Article 11. In fact, the Constitutional Court found unconstitutional in two decisions and firstly explained that the court must exempt a party from payment of a court fee in full even if it did not receive financial social assistance on the basis of a decision of the competent authority if it was justified to grant that aid in the event of an application for such aid. Secondly, the conditions for the exemption of the payment of judicial fees have been further extended, meaning that, even if the party does not receive financial social assistance on the basis of a decision of the competent authority and does not meet the conditions for receiving such aid under the legal provisions, it would be entitled to the exemption of the payment of the court fee if the payment of the latter would result in a significant reduction in the means by which the person who is to survive or survives the persons who are obliged to survive it. The second reason why we will support the amended proposal of the Law on Judicial Fees is the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. The law includes three regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council which speak, for the first time, of the establishment of a European order for payment procedure, the introduction of a European procedure in disputes of low value and jurisdiction, the law applicable, the recognition and enforcement of decisions and the admissibility and enforcement of public documents in hereditary matters, and the introduction of a European Certificate of Succession. In addition, I would like to point out the solution concerning the simplification of the way in which the parties and their family members determine the material situation of the parties and their family members for the purpose of deciding on tax advantages by way of determining the material situation of applicants for free legal aid and for rights from public social protection funds. The time limit for establishing electronic access to databases to identify the material situation of the parties and their family members shall be 6 months. The proposer expects these adopted solutions to help more effectively recover unpaid court fees. Together with the coalition partners, we responded with the preparation of the amendments and the adoption of the amendments on the Committee to the comments and warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. The evidence of continued amendment of the law in question today is not true, as this law has only been amended since 2008 in 2010 and 2013. However, the double intervention in marriage is large or small, it is a matter of judging each individual and it is only necessary to say once again that this novelty is also necessary because of the two found unconstitutionalities created by the new Law on Judicial Fees of 2008, when the SD Group did not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The Novel of the Law on Court Fees. What's the point of court fees anyway? It is clear that the essence of judicial fees should be to partially cover the costs of judicial proceedings, but judicial fees are increasingly becoming only a means of increasing the state's public finances. This was most clearly seen in the 2013 novel, which brought about a general and, above all, unjustified increase in court fees. And the result of reckless austerity measures was nothing more than a decision of the Constitutional Court. One of the completely unfounded and unacceptable solutions to increase the country's income was directed at those who cannot afford to pay their fees. As a result of the inability to pay a court fee, access to the court is denied. It is clear from this that both past governments and current savings have mostly gone where this is totally unacceptable — on the shoulders of the weakest. In the United Left, we support the solution relating to extending the range of beneficiaries to the full exemption of the payment of the court fee. We also support the clear determination that payments of court fees are exempt workers who initiate bankruptcy proceedings against the employer. These are cases where workers can initiate bankruptcy proceedings due to months of non-payment of salaries. Such an arrangement is the only logical one and is also appropriate. However, while two of the proposed solutions are positive, it is not possible to overlook the fact that this proposal also raises certain court fees. However, the justification for this increase is questionable. This was also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, but as usual the coalition overheard it. Thus, as we have done many times in this mandate, we are in an awkward situation. The proposal, on the one hand, contains a solution to remedy the constitutionality found, on the other hand containing provisions which could lead to a new anti-constitution. And that is also the first reason why we will not support the bill in the United Left. The second reason is that the proposal does not contain a solution that is certainly necessary and justified. Two such solutions were proposed in the United Left with amendments, which were as usual rejected. The first concerned such an exemption for NGOs acting in the public interest. There is no valid reason why such an exemption does not apply to them. However, the statements made by the coalition on the committee were entirely unfounded. Pursuant to the proposal, the payment of court fees is exempt from the state, the municipalities, humanitarian organisations, social work centres, all the way to municipal companies, and could also be listed. Everyone could say, but NGOs acting in the public interest, no. We have therefore proposed in the United Left that such an exemption should also be fixed for them. This exemption would apply exclusively to procedures relating to the implementation of the purpose for which they were established. The amendment was rejected by the Coalition, despite the fact that there is no reasonable reason why, for example, municipal companies are fully exempt from payment of judicial fees in all judicial proceedings and non-governmental organisations nor for procedures relating to the implementation of their basic purpose. The second solution involved cases where a court fee should not exist at all. These are individual labour disputes due to the payment of cash receivables from the employment relationship. So it is an employee's lawsuit for unpaid wages, regress, overtime, and the like. This fee was introduced in 2013. Its exclusive purpose, however, was to fill the state treasury. In the United Left, we are convinced that this is completely inappropriate and, above all, unfounded. If it is already unacceptable that the State allows the possibility of employers not paying their salaries after months, not paying their contributions, and treating their workers as slaves, it is scandalous that the employee should have to pay a legal fee due to the unpaid salary. But even here we were not supported by the coalition, even though the solution would not have had any negative effects. On the contrary. In addition to allowing the proposed solution to enable workers to make the payment they own as easily as possible, the solution would also have a positive effect on the duration of the proceedings. But the pressure of the coalition workers is obviously not large enough to do anything in this area. Because of everything mentioned in the United Left, we will not support the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u94	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The constitutional requirement for a social state requires that the exercise of rights in a court of law is also made possible for the socially weaker parties. Therefore, the amount of judicial fees should in no case jeopardise the right of the parties to judicial protection. This right is constitutionally guaranteed to everyone and to everyone under the same conditions. Therefore, the inability to pay a court fee must in no case be an obstacle that someone would not be able to claim the protection of his rights before a court. The fact is, in most cases, payment of a court fee is a procedural assumption. This means that the court does not accept or initiate proceedings if the case is not paid. In a time of economic crisis, high unemployment rates and the reduction of real and often nominal revenues, judicial fees are increasingly not only for unemployed and pensioners but also for regular income workers. Since the judicial fees are essentially intended to cover the work, I stress that part of the costs for the work of the courts is the provision of funds for the functioning of the courts the obligation of the State budget. In view of the above, today's amendment to the Law on Judicial Fees is welcome as it eliminates the constitutional non-compliance of Article 11 of the Law on Judicial Fees and thus allows for the full exemption of the payment of judicial fees. Such an exemption may be proposed by any party for whom the payment would entail a significant reduction in the means for its survival or for the survival of its family members. Individuals and legal persons, however, will have to pay the initial 44 Euros of judicial fees in their procedures and may be exempt from the remaining part of the fee. As early as 2013, when the novel was adopted, New Slovenia strongly opposed the enormous increase in court fees and the abolition of such exemptions, which only applied to recipients of monetary social assistance. As today's amendment brings more benefits and thus makes it more equitable for the parties to have access to the courts, we support the proposal. In any event, it is also justified to exempt the payment of the court fee for the application for the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure submitted by the workers. This brings the situation of workers in this law closer to that of workers under the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. In such cases, workers who are not responsible for the situation leading up to the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure must not be placed in a position that would require payment of the court fee. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced and we are in the position that the Government should also propose a reduction in the amount of fees, which, regardless of today's proposed exemptions, remains too high. However, as the proposed amendment to the Law on Judicial Fees brings improvements to which we are reminding Christian Democrats, we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry and everyone in the hall and those who accompany us! To wake up a little because you think this topic is probably a little less interesting, but for the courts, the issue of court fees is still interesting. Why? Since, at least in civil proceedings, payment of a court fee is a procedural assumption. In most cases, the proceedings or decisions on the appeal, the objection to anything may not begin until we decide whether the fee is paid or the exemption, the deferral or the periodic payment of the fee. That is why any amendment to the Law on Court Fees has a very important impact on court proceedings, and it is very important whether we change to law speed or not, and it is important that we do so with thought. This last amendment is considered and is to be adopted in the opinion of our Group of Members. Above all, it is important, as has already been said by our other colleagues, that non-constitutionality is eliminated in the Law on Judicial Fees, that, after the current regime, individual payments of the court fee can be fully forgiven if it receives monetary social assistance. In practice, then, it was quickly found that some people do not have financial social assistance, but they are far worse off if you allow me to cariculate, and they were not able to be exempt from the payment of the legal fee in full under this regime. Therefore, the Constitutional Court also found the unconstitutionality of Article 11 of the Law on Court Fees and ordered the legislator to abolish this unconstitutionality. It seems very important to me that we also remove the so-called administrative obstacles that mean for people what form I now have to attach, what I have to fill out, what I have to attach to this form, or whether I have to deal with this very much and torture. A major change has now been made in this area. Customers who apply for exemption or partial exemption will not be required to postpone payment of the court fee as long as so far. They will only be able to submit one simple role, where they will provide personal data, information on the case and information on their material status and the status of family members, and the rest will be sought by the court. The courts already have experience with having direct access to databases, such as the Land Book, the Register of Transaction Accounts, the Population Register and so on. The courts will now have access to all other information, such as access to social work centres, after a new period of this transitional period, and will see for themselves whether the person fulfils the conditions for the exemption of the payment of a court fee, deferral or payment of interest. So this is a major change which, I believe, may have slowed down the work of the court for a little while before it gets used to it, but I think it will make a substantial contribution to simplifying the procedure and simplifying the decision, as cases have appeared, for example, that free legal aid has been granted to someone but has not been exempt from the payment of court fees. I've done a little more research myself. I expect that there will be substantial unification in this area, as the basic data which will be the basis for the decision-making will be uniform, and will briefly look at the same customer property database. At the Modern Centre Party, we will support this proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Secretary of State! We have an important law before us that affects the right to judicial protection and remedies and consequently the legal protection of persons who are socially at risk. Access to the Court and thus ensuring the constitutional right to judicial protection is one of the foundations of the rule of law, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would therefore expect the Government of Mir Cerar, who would like to talk about the rule of law and justice, to propose to the National Assembly for adoption such solutions in the field of judicial fees, which would reduce them. Since the adoption of the new Law on Judicial Fees, adopted in 2008, two novelties have been adopted, which have significantly and disproportionately increased the level of judicial fees and thereby limited access to judicial protection and thus to legal certainty. However, most of the fees were raised by a novel proposed by Minister Senko Plitčanič during the Prime Minister of Alenka Bratušek, for example, in the case of marital disputes, a tax was raised from EUR 66 to EUR 72. In the case of disputes concerning the determination or promotion of paternity or motherhood and in disputes on protection, upbringing and survival of children, it rose from €41 to €45. This novelty also raised court fees for procedures under the law governing enforcement and insurance. In the process of acceptance, we proposed an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group that we wanted to delete this increase, but the coalition did not want to listen to it at the time. The current government is also in some way restricting access to judicial protection to draw attention here to the amendment of the Law on Lawyers, which was adopted at the end of 2014. It has reduced the payment for the services of lawyers exercising free legal aid or representing the parties under an official obligation, at the rate of half which would otherwise be due to them under the tariff. The amendment of the Law on free legal aid, adopted in March 2015, states again under Minister Klemenčič, and has also abolished the first legal advice. At the time we opposed it, we also tabled amendments, and non-governmental organizations at the time opposed it, but we were not heard again. Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome the solution in the novel, which eliminates unconstitutionality with regard to the full exemption of court fees. We will not oppose the Law on Court Fees in the SDS Group because the individual solutions with which access to judicial protection is partly facilitated are certainly a positive shift, but what we are most concerned about, and what we cannot agree with and also miss these proposals, is to reduce the amount of court fees to ensure legal certainty especially for those most socially disadvantaged. We propose a reduction in the amount of judicial fees by at least half. I have also mentioned this in the Committee on Justice, where we have discussed this. We will consider this in the Group of Members and also propose appropriate solutions to move in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 23 March. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ivo Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I welcome this marriage because I think it's good. It contains certain solutions which were referred to by the Constitutional Court, some of which have been pointed out by practice. In particular, I believe that progress has been made in this reduction of the administration with regard to procedures for the exemption of court fees. Those who have ever been in contact with these proceedings will surely be reminded that a whole lot of documents must be completed, that the party could even apply for exemption from court fees. That's what's going on now. The Court will only be able to obtain certain data, in fact only the data of that applicant will be needed. Perhaps it would not turn to a solution, which was also discussed at the meeting of the parent working body, that is to say, in relation to the decision to place court fees in individual working disputes at the end of the proceedings, i.e. at the time of the award of the judicial decision. I welcome this solution, as we have heard many times today, a court fee is a procedural assumption, so if there is no payment of this fee, we cannot initiate proceedings. This is particularly important for individual labour disputes. We have workers suing wages, wage parts, allowances, anything in these proceedings, and it is right that, given that it is a right from a working relationship to give it a special weight even in the context of the proceedings itself, it is not bound by the prior payment of court fees. But perhaps I would like to, I also pointed out that the solution would somehow be in this direction, of course it also has some budgetary effects, so that it would be in this direction that the worker who will succeed in his dispute would not have to pay these fees, because after such a decree of law as I am now, this obligation will still exist. The Law on Judicial Fees states that it is the duty of the person proposing the procedure to pay the court fee. Of course, if he succeeds in the conflict, he will have the opportunity to recover it back, but there are also cases where we have a defendant who becomes, I don't know, insolvent and then virtually impossible to recover it. So I hope that they will be in the future, I don't know if that's the reason, and I also gather data in this direction, what this means for the budget. If you have any insolvent defendants who have lost the suit, then it will be difficult to get that tax refund, both the employee and the state, if she is the one who will claim it. It would be appropriate, however, for this obligation to pay a court fee to be bound by a judicial judgment, which is not the case now. Only after a legal judgment do we really know who owes someone what to pay. Regardless of what I have already mentioned, I will support this marriage. I think he is still very good or that even in these individual labour disputes he is making progress. The employee will be able to start a dispute without paying a taxi in advance. As regards the statements made by colleagues from the United Left regarding the exemption of fees to NGOs, I also agree with the Government's position in this regard that such an exemption is, in fact, rather unpredictable. I'm in favour of keeping those fees as low as possible. I say it's better that people fight in court than on the street. But the court's fee is fixed in all systems. Remember, years ago, it was actually one of the only or very rare levers to limit justice in courts. And so it is in other countries. It is said that a court fee somehow prevents people from going to court for completely trivial matters and burdening their work. I hope that in the future the conditions will also be such that some fees will be reduced. Until then, I believe that this administrative burden and the other solutions envisaged in the bill will help to make the courts more accessible to all those in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. First, as regards the SDS amendment, the time limit for the opposition should be extended to fifteen days by eight days. I think that this simply makes no sense because it is also in all other procedural laws, in the Law on Justice and in the Law on Offences is the time limit for opposition to eight days. The explanation of the amendment does not state what would now be the reason for this period to be extended. Eight days is the deadline for an objection to a payment order, so we do not see any point in extending that period to fifteen days. In general, because we want the procedure to be swift, we want to make a quick decision against the payment order as well as to determine whether the procedure can now proceed or not, whether the procedural assumptions for the lodging of the action, the objection, the complaint, anything or not are met. However, with regard to the terrible high court fees and the flat-rate reference to this, I believe that each party can submit a proposal for exemption in whole or in part of a court fee. In each particular case, the Court shall determine whether the conditions for exemption are met in full, in part, in deferral or indemnity. In each particular case, the court shall determine the matter. The criteria are also laid down in the law. It will now be possible to have a central view of the record, so I believe that this will provide sufficient protection for the parties in judicial proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I see that there is still a debate, and the applicant will probably say something. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment which is bound by the deadline for the submission of an objection, but something more must be said first of all about the Law on Judicial Fees itself, and in particular about this history, how the adoption took place. As a colleague from the SMC Group said in the introduction, when we talk about the Law on Court Fees, it is very prudent to go into any changes. But we have been in all these years, and from 2008 until now we have gone three times to amend the Law on Judicial Fees. I'm saying it's repeatedly reckless. Especially in the latest novel made by former Minister Senko Plitsanič, when he significantly increased his legal fees. In particular, what is crucial in this law is that it is coordinated with two decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning who is entitled to payment of judicial fees or who is exempt. We agree with the part where you wrote down that indirect budgetary users are also entitled to payment of court fees, especially in the case of societies at the municipal level and so on. However, the Committee on Justice has also talked a lot about the fact that the payment of court fees would also be justified in individual labour disputes, particularly because wages and regress are not being paid. That's what we agree with. This is a good proposal, I have already said this on the Committee on Home Affairs, but it would be good to think about it. However, if we look at history, as I said before, the Law on Judicial Fees changed for the first time in 2008. This was the so-called Smurf Act, which then referred to the Lukend project during its adoption. Lukenda's project was that project that was good at reducing court applications and bailing them out. At that time, Sturm's law wanted to solve matters of court fees in a different way, with another concept, and then in 2010 we will see the amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees, at which time Mr Aleš Zalar was Minister and I think he raised about a euro in the amount of judicial fees. Well, then comes this famous decision, then the government was Alenka Bratušek and Minister Plitčanič decided to raise the court fees by about, if we look on average, 10%. That was in 2013. At that time, the argument was that we would get around €4.5 million into the state budget. But, you know, we saved it or we'd save it on the weakest. So the budget has been filled at the expense of the weakest. The weakest who are at risk, more than 300,000 of them living below the poverty line, are also entitled to justice and we must allow them to do so, but not that they cannot exercise justice in the courts, because judicial practices are too high. Then I must say that during that period, not only did the legal fees increase, but they also introduced some new judicial fees, such as for the land register registration procedure, until then it was not necessary, and then some 20 euros were paid for it. But for example, for unfair procedures, taxes rose from 20% to 40%, certainly unacceptable. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committee, as well as several times before, even when Plitčanič's amendment of the law was under consideration, we said that we oppose such acts because it is not helping citizens and citizens, in particular those who are socially disadvantaged and do not have such status as to be able to regain a good name or to obtain a trial in court. That's what I have to say. In this mandate, Minister Klemenčič – in my position – has abolished the first free legal aid consultation. We also opposed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party at that time, but our amendment was rejected, as was most of the proposals we are proposing, although they are good and have a particular impact on the quality of life of citizens and citizens. Now there is another more important element. On the one hand, you cancel the first free advice for free legal aid and, on the other hand, keep the amount of legal fees. It's unacceptable. I expect that Minister Klemenčič – unfortunately, because he is not with us today, is a shame, because he could explain things, I know that he is the Secretary of State, but the Minister is the Minister, the Minister is responsible for his department – he explained how he could have gone in two of these solutions, it is said that he is withdrawing the first legal advice that helped the socially weakest individuals and, on the other hand, retains the amount of judicial fees that rose during the government of Alenka Bratušek. That is why we will most likely propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that these judicial fees be reduced by at least half, because this seems appropriate to us. And I hope that you will also confirm this, because we need to ensure and enable citizens and citizens, in particular those who, as has already been said, are the most socially disadvantaged, to be able to protect their rights. And we have to defend them. We will continue to do so in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have already stated in the position of the Group of Members what should be the essence of court fees, and this is a partial coverage of the costs of judicial proceedings. But we have seen and also heard today several times that, at least since 2013, judicial fees are a more minimal but at least a partial charge on the state budget. And this was also one of the clear and open arguments at the opening of the 2013 novel. Here, too, I would rely a little more generally on what this law brings, especially on the argument that this law provides for certain guardians even for those who are in the worst position. Here I am talking about this famous late payment of court fees in individual labour disputes. The argument of the Government, as well as of the coalitions, is that there is a delay in paying the fee only when a court decision is served. But here, on the one hand, they forget something that's pretty important, and it's that such an obligation still arises here. In these cases it is paid by those who eventually lose the lawsuit, but I think we need to look at another, perhaps a little more psychologically at the story. I think that such a delay measure does not help those who are in hopeless situations, because in some way some fear is still being imposed, and this is the fear that, with all the mistrust that citizens have in the judiciary, they will eventually have to pay for some of the rights they have, because the courts will not do what is right. In short, let us face a situation where citizens and citizens, workers and employees do not have confidence in the courts, that the courts will do their work in the right way, so that they will, of course, protect the rights of workers. If we look at some specific situation where some employees have been unemployed for months or even for some year, do not receive other income from the employment relationship, do not have paid contributions, let's say where they are used daily, where they live in an increasingly hopeless situation day-to-day, we have to ask ourselves whether these people have so much confidence in the judiciary that they will still go to file complaints against employers. Of course not. Because even those 20, 30, 40, 50 or 70 Euros mean monthly for such people living on minimum wages, where they spend whole families on minimum wages, in fact a huge cost, more than 10% of their monthly income. Let us ask ourselves whether the forestsmen of Marof Trade trust enough in the country, in our system, to expect adequate protection from the country in their situation. I don't think so. So that the country should do something more here, it should do something to protect workers, protect the exploited and introduce at least some minimum fuses or some minimum mechanisms that could improve this situation, such as the exemption from court fees in these cases, not delays. If I return to the point raised by my colleague Zorčič in his debate, which was directly targeted on the proposal of the amendment from the United Left Committee, to forgive the non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest to pay these fees. He said that in a way this exemption was unpredictable. I wonder how, for example, a predictable exemption from the payment of court fees for municipal companies is. We are talking here about a complete exemption that is not linked to a type of procedure, but in all cases. However, we have proposed the exemption of fees for non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest, I stress that this allowance is only in the procedures related to the implementation of the purpose for which they were established or for which these organisations have acquired the status of organisations acting in the public interest. So I still don't buy this argument, I don't accept it, and I think it's just a step away from what might be possible and, of course, an appropriate solution in this legislative proposal. Let me also mention that a similar exemption is provided for in the Administrative Fees Act, where an analogous situation can be found, where there is a diction where NGOs acting in the public interest are exempt from administrative fees. If one ministry in this government has a hearing or a similar solution is capable of being accepted, I think that slightly more of this interdepartmental communication should be needed to resolve these matters systematically, in short, in all ministries covering similar matters. Let me also touch the amendment of the SDS Group. In the United Left, we do not object to this amendment, but we have reason to believe that merely extending the deadline for a complaint against the payment order concerning the payment of the court fee will not solve the problems we have in this area. This novel, of course, only prolongs or perpetuates these problems, so that much more work is needed, especially in areas that we have already highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The text is by the motioner, Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I would like to answer a few questions that have been raised in the debate. As was the case with the committee today, about the amount of court fees and how unreasonable or excessive they were in 2013. In this regard, I would like to say once again that the basic Law on Court Fees was adopted in 2008, so 2013 was the first audit and our court fees, i.e. the fees before Slovenian courts, as I have already said in this room, are comparable to those in other European countries, including, in particular, our GDP. So much for the height of the court fees. Here's what I'd like to say next. If, in my introductory address to today's proposal, I have stressed that we are expanding the range of such benefits, that is, making it easier for citizens to be fully exempt from the payment of judicial fees, thus making it quite flexible and judging the criteria under which they are subject, i.e. at risk of livelihoods, I would like to add to this what may be highlighted too often or hears that the existing regime has an entire set of procedures, let's say, if I may say, socially sensitive procedures that are free. I'll just list them for the feeling. The Lord of the United Left has mentioned the workers, and let me say that workers in individual labour disputes who are already suing the conclusion, existence or termination of the employment relationship are not obliged to pay the fee. Similarly, students and students are involved in disputes over staff scholarships and temporary or occasional work. Furthermore, if, in a divorce or paternity dispute, a request for protection, education, maintenance of a child or a spouse is decided simultaneously — for this part, the tax procedure shall be free. A tax, i.e. a liability to pay a tax, is not the same when it comes to procedures for the enforcement of an application for the maintenance of a child or a spouse, as well as, for example, if a proposal for a bankruptcy procedure or an enforcement procedure is introduced, if such a proposal is made by the debtor, it is not obliged to pay the fee. Furthermore, there are a number of unfair procedures that are free to pay and administrative disputes about the recognition of international protection under the law governing international protection, and if I mention other organisations with disabilities in the procedures concerning the implementation of the purpose for which they are established and for persons with disabilities in the procedures relating to discrimination for reasons of disability, as well as for humanitarian organisations in general. The Act, which will be followed by today's agenda on the table, is the insolvency law – the ZFPPIPP, for short, provides for the exemption of the payment of judicial fees for a fair proceeding for a bankruptcy debtor who enforces a claim against members of the company's management. I haven't listed all the procedures that are free to pay, as I said, for a few cases. So, listening to the socially weaker, also threatened with judicial fees in this legislation. If I have ended up with disabled and humanitarian organisations and if the debate has also been about NGOs, let me stress once again that they are already exempt from the tax, they are not bound to pay, the disability and humanitarian organisations. However, we have not decided on such a measure for other NGOs because it is a set of NGOs that are so diverse in spectrum, and it is organisations which, in addition to activities of public interest, are also engaged in commercial activities. Therefore, such a general exemption from payment of court fees would be somewhat exaggerated, however, according to our assessment. In support of this decision, however, there is a constitution which, as I have already mentioned, makes disabled persons a particularly protected category. To conclude, I would also like to say that somehow I cannot establish the view that the ministry, as far as NGOs are concerned, is not coherent; so somewhere there is listening, somewhere else there is not. When talking about the Law on Administrative Fees and Article 24, there is indeed, NGOs are exempt from administrative fees for certain documents and acts, but because it is a matter of administrative procedures and administrative fees, these are essentially acts and documents which are important for their status, for their existence, and yet this is something else or not exactly the justification that such an organisation would like to make for such or other reason and would like to be fully exempt from all payments in this regard. So much Ahasuerus, and I would also like to conclude with what Mrs Irgle has pointed out, namely the abolition of the first legal advice. [[…]] Here, I would like to say, we have replaced this institution with an institution of legal counseling, which under the same conditions, without determining the substantive rationality of the matter, offers the citizen, under the same conditions, a greater amount of aid, a greater amount of advice for the same funds. Thus, we do not consider that we have deprived or restricted something, but we have added something under the same conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to respond to what the secretary of state said. Of course, the ministry is somehow by defending and listing what already exists, somehow escaping what I was trying to point out; in short, what does not yet exist and should be introduced. The regulation already in force has a set of procedures to exclude those on the social side and so on; in short, to exempt them from judicial fees, of course the termination of the employment relationship and proceedings in bankruptcy proceedings are crucial, but here I stress where the exemption of court fees for cases of non-payment of salaries, regression, overtime and other non-fulfilled obligations from the employment relationship is. These violations are more than one year-on-year, as the Labour Inspectorate also points out. In 2014, almost 30,000 such violations have already been generally found, and the largest proportion of these violations is the area of payment for work and other benefits from the employment relationship. In short, if you put yourself in the shoes of someone who works for a minimum wage or even works for a slightly higher salary and, of course, all the obligations the employer has towards him are not paid at the right time, it is also one of the situations that seriously endangers the everyday life of such a person and which means some serious breach of the working relationship and this is one thing that I think the ministry should address accordingly. As far as she's concerned, she's forgiven court fees to NGOs. You said it was also in some ways non-governmental organisations that have a variety of fields of work and also have some commercial activities. Municipal companies also carry out commercial activities to a certain extent and are exempt from judicial fees in all proceedings. However, we have proposed that NGOs acting in the public interest – and we know that ministries grant these status under precisely defined criteria, in procedures related to the enforcement of their public interest – would be exempt from court fees. Thus, this argument still does not hold and cannot be accepted. The Constitution states, of course, that disabled persons are a protected category, but our constitution sets out many things. It also states that the State must take care of environmental protection and also of such NGOs, we have a lot to do with this public interest, either in the field of environmental protection or environmental protection and so on, and there are many such cases, so that the reference to the Constitution can also be a very court-martial sword if we refer to only one article and forget about everything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, fellow Secretary! I'm assessing for myself that the Law on Court Fees is essentially a positive law. Positive because we're right here, if I've heard from my previous debaters earlier, how unsocial and how we didn't take into account the socially weak, I mean the opposite. Because the proposed law means a more friendly way of submitting a proposal to exempt a court tax, and not to disregard the social situation, so as not to take into account the socially weak. I think that such a claim is not the most correct one, because not only are we facilitating their way, but there is still the possibility of such an exemption. This kind of exemption, however, is intended for those who are socially at risk or socially weak. Thus, this claim of my previous speaker cannot be held in any way. As far as this is concerned, we support the law, bringing a lot of positive things. It is also particularly a very positive novelty that, according to the official duty, it will look into data and it also means easing; that is, checking procedures and the property situation of individuals, which is also an advantage. NGO itself, so now there has been a lot of debate about NGOs. This issue is essentially important, it can be settled in a law that will deal with non-governmental organisations and regulate their status and status. One more thing, it opens up too many other questions here, which are not only about public interest, but precisely in this gap between the activity being carried out in the public interest and all other activities. It is very difficult to make this clear separation, and we also know who and under what conditions decisions are made to work in the public interest, that the activity is carried out in the public interest. So I think that in this segment we need a little more in-depth debate and in-depth research to actually get the exact amount of data that they are actually doing, what activities they are actually doing, and also to see what effect that would have then. I think that the law is positive and that it is in every way appropriate to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Once again, with regard to this proposal to extend the time limit for opposition and this statement by a colleague from the United Left, we will now help workers by extending this time limit. Excuse me, there is no dispute, not in the Law of Justice, not in the Law on Offences, but also in the Law on Enforcement and Insurance has an objection period of 8 days. In fact, it is a matter of deciding on simpler matters, which then, if dealt with more quickly, contribute to a faster decision on substantive matters. So I really don't see what this extension of this period from 8 to 15 days would do. In addition, it will help to prolong the decision on these proceedings, so I think that this matter is unnecessary to extend, because it is a matter of a simpler case and if the court decides to object sufficiently quickly to the payment order, that is to say that the payment order has not been properly issued, then it will be possible to decide more quickly on the substantive matters; that is, the action, the complaint, the objection, whatever the purpose of the procedure itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Can we finish this discussion? Please log in Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My personal opinion, as well as the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that I do not know if today is an appropriate time in terms of the state of the country – we repeatedly repeat the numbers of 300,000 people at the threshold or below the threshold of poverty, many pensioners who in fact need additional assistance to survive through the month, a large number of children whose parents do not know how to bring them in in a month. In short, we are also talking about an important aspect, and this is poverty. I really don't know if today might be the right time to talk about whether it makes sense to extend rights or to extend the number of beneficiaries to be exempt from court fees in the case of non-governmental organisations. I don't think so. NGOs are mostly financed by the state, the state somehow takes care of their operation, and I think that this problem of paying court fees is not as great for some other citizens and citizens. I believe that today's debate would be more relevant than anything else, to take a step forward and to generally reduce the amount of court fees. Today, these are simply too large for individuals. Someone's gonna say it's just change. That's not true! The individual must first ask how, through the procedure, what options he has, and after perhaps only someone helps him to see that he has the opportunity to obtain his right in court, he seeks the amount to be settled in such a complaint or in such fees and that the proceedings will begin. Then, respectable, given the well-known fact that in Slovenia our judicial mills are grinding, grinding, grinding, but flour is not and is not, these people have been waiting for their rights for years and years. In doing so, they must still go to the courts at some remote points, far away from their homes and sometimes simply cannot do so. And even though they know that justice is on their side, they can't afford it. Now tell me whether this is constitutionally much more problematic and also by ensuring human rights, including equality before the law, that we have citizens and citizens, our citizens and citizens who simply cannot afford judicial proceedings in this regard. They can't! There are many of them, many of them turning to us. By the way, I will also give examples of how much energy citizens and citizens sometimes need to direct only to inform the court repeatedly that their surnames are no longer the same as those recorded by the court. This is often reported either by telephone or in writing, and they are still given the same last name on an important document that may also be very painful in person. Which may be very painful in person because of experience. That's unacceptable to me. And they pay for some postal services and then pay for others who help them to draw up such documents, as it is difficult for some to draw up a basic letter. It's hard. Therefore, more than anything else today, we should talk about the fact that court fees in general in the country are falling and that the state is not a fiddle, forgive the expression, really fill the budget in such a way, but make sure that court procedures are shorter when it comes to economic matters when it comes to economic disputes, and that we will also be more attractive to foreign investors, while foreign investors will bring more economic power into the country and thus certainly a better picture for all, and we will be able to help these citizens with new jobs and also by not having any more money to decide whether or not to complain about or start a proceeding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u118	It's a very short response. Colleague Korenjak Kramar said that more information should be provided about NGOs, how many they are, what activities they are carrying out, and so on. I would just like to emphasise: the correct lists, supplemented, are held by the ministries, which are the ones that grant status. These statuses shall be granted on the basis of criteria which they have and, of course, also the content that these NGOs must implement. So I think that's all the information that's needed, but this is a second debate now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Tuesday, 29th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. In the context of the votes. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Business Act, the insolvency proceedings and the forced termination within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u120	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government is bringing before you a new law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. According to domestic insolvency legislation, ZFPPIPP. It is a demanding and rather complex law, which has been subject to several issues, initiatives, changes and, unfortunately, daily application due to the economic crisis in recent years. Its implementation, implementation of this Act, is accompanied by a special interinstitutional commission led by the Ministry of Justice and includes stakeholders from various financial institutions, state institutions, economies, employers and employees. Its implementation is also closely monitored by the European Commission, which we need to report regularly on the implementation of this law. Despite certain shortcomings of this law, which have proved to be practical, the conclusion of the profession in both Slovenia and Brussels is that the law should not be amended in its entirety because case law must be enforced. However, we are coming before you with two important changes, in two parts; we are fully renewing the process of personal bankruptcy and waiver of liabilities and complementing the restructuring arrangements of smaller companies. Both were the subject of an expert debate on a broad interinstitutional and implementation group established to monitor and implement this insolvency law. As far as personal bankruptcy is concerned, it's very short notice. Personal bankruptcy, this institute, as last renovated in 2008, has not changed significantly since then, as the focus has been on company bankruptcy. In the past year and in recent years, both professional and public have been faced with a number of cases that have indicated that the Institute of Personal bankruptcy is increasingly moving away from the objective it was intended for, and this is a waiver of obligations for honest and serious debtors; giving people another option. In short, in a system where more and more of these or others are involved, I will be the grave, speculators, economicists and other elites, this institution of personal bankruptcy is used to protect itself from rubble. Therefore, he failed in his purpose, the law did not contain sufficient cauldrons, and other judicial practices of these cauldrons could not be ensured because there was no legal basis for this. As it is said, the proposal for a law is therefore a priority and quite largely changing the institution of personal bankruptcy into two elements. First of all, the restriction on the possibility of abuse of the obligation institution, to which I will return a little later, and secondly the social note of the law, which allows the reduction of the probationary period for the most socially disadvantaged categories of debtors, such as pensioners, disabled persons, single parents and other debtors, who receive only minimal contributions. Instead of five years, for example, the court may in such cases reduce the trial period to six months. The revised regime will provide creditors and managers with more opportunities and more effective protection against any abuse of the liability institution. The type of cauldrons brought by law shall contain extended deadlines for the submission of an objection to the waiver of an obligation; an important extension of the period of the defendant's legal actions from 3 to 5 years is extended; a set of legal transactions and actions which may be challenged during this extended period shall be extended, including for transactions involving legal persons associated with the bankruptcy debtor or closely related natural persons of the bankruptcy debtor. It is very simple to say, in all too many cases, a practice has been established in Slovenia where people apply or apply for personal bankruptcy, while before or after the course of trial or challenge, they transferred their assets to family members, connected persons and so on. At least this law is trying to end it. The last issue is the restructuring of smaller companies. Because of the time limit, I will get involved in this debate. Finally, I would like to add, given that only four articles have been tabled in the draft law, that the Government will, in the event that amendments are only adopted to three articles, propose, in accordance with Article 138, that the State Assembly also carry out a third examination of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Germany, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The Justice Committee is at its 19th meeting, 14th. 3. 2016, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly 5. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the definition of the Ministry and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letter of Mr Daniel Omerzu, the letter of the Chamber of Commerce and Business and the letter of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Since the Minister has already given an opinion, I will deliver my own opinions to some other institutions, starting with the Legislative and Legal Service, which, in presenting a written legal opinion, reiterated, in particular, the nomotechnical comments on Articles 5, 8 and 15, raised the question in Article 17 whether it is really appropriate for the transmission of the data to be transmitted to the managers of the databases to be equally natural and legal persons. With regard to Article 22, it stressed that the eighth paragraph, or the new eighth paragraph, which reduced the trial period to a minimum of 6 months, should be further substantiated. The State Councillor, Mr Tomaž Horvat, stressed that the Commission of the State Council for State Order supports the bill's proposal, and particularly welcomes the revised provisions of the regulation of the personal bankruptcy procedure. At the same time, he pointed out that the proposal for a law in the transitional and final provisions provided for the application of Article 411 of the ZFPPIPP to repeal the waiver of an obligation which the court had decided before the entry into force of this proposal of the law, provided that two years had not yet passed from the power of the decision on discharge of obligations to the implementation of the proposed legislation, which raises doubts that it was a retroactive breach of legal standards. Ms Sabina Rupert, representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, said that the Chamber supports the abolition of the anomalies that appear in bankruptcy, but she felt that the provisions of Article 8 of the bill stipulating that the simplified compulsory settlement did not affect the claim for contributions and taxes. Mr Igor Knez, representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, said that he fully associated himself with the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, that taxes should in no case be a priority claim. Mr Boštjan Udovic, representative of the Real Estate Chamber, pointed out that the proposal for a law does not contain solutions that would adequately address all the findings of the Court's audit report of 2014 that the Ministry of Justice does not exercise appropriate professional supervision, and the Ministry therefore calls for the matter to be properly addressed in the next amendment of this law. It is important to highlight the opinion of the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the State Secretary of Mag. Matey Vraničar Erman, who said that she was trying to make it appropriate to prevent the abuse of the Institute of Simplified Forced Settlements, does not mean that the State's tax claims are placed in a privileged position compared to the claims of other creditors. After a year and a half of the implementation of the procedures for simplifying the enforcement settlement, it is observed that this institution is being misused for the purposes of unjustified debt write-offs made on the basis of unpaid contributions and taxes. It explained that the majority of the tax debt in the simplified enforcement procedures was assessed in the inspection procedures of Article 8 of the draft law, which, together with the proposed amendment of the coalition, was designed solely to avoid abuses in the simplified enforcement procedures, which are seen in practice. The average tax write-off in the simplified settlement procedures according to the data of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia was thus almost 78% and can reach up to 90% and more. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Judicial Council and had no comments on the draft law. In the debate, the members of the opposition committee first pointed out that the assessment of the status of the proposals mainly from the statistics presented in view of the initiation of pre-emptive restructuring procedures shows that the extension of this institution to the small business segment is not meaningful. The Committee then adopted amendments to several articles by SMC, Desus and SD. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted jointly on all the articles of the proposal. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the text of the supplementary proposal, which includes the amendments adopted, is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you, Vice President. Respected and respected! The Law on Financial Operations in Insolvency and Forced Cessation Procedures, we also briefly refer to it as a bankruptcy law, since its entry into force in practice has caused many problems and many hot debates in parliamentary circles. The reason is in a demanding and impenetrable marriage. Notwithstanding all these previous discussions, which took place in the context of the changes and additions to bankruptcy legislation and other meetings referred to in the topic of bankruptcy, we still find that the procedures related to the restructuring and bankruptcy of firms in difficulty are still long-term and also ineffective or less successful than our expectations, which is why we are losing everyone, workers, individuals and society as a whole. Jobs for the entire working population are being lost because there are no companies to think about the future and develop them in the past. Dissatisfaction with long-term insolvency, coercion and other procedures is detected on all sides. In order to ensure the effectiveness of reform legislation, an implementation group has been set up with a number of tasks, I will mention only some: monitoring the implementation of legislation, identifying problems, particularly abuses, and drafting proposals and solutions that will help improve the implementation of the law in practice, as well as drawing up proposals to address perceived systemic problems. The solutions already contained in the amendment to the bill are focused on complementing the restructuring arrangements of small companies and regulating the personal bankruptcy procedure. With a view to a more balanced regulation of the restructuring procedures of small companies which, on the one hand, allow for additional restructuring procedures and measures, and, on the other hand, restrict the process of simplification of the compulsory settlement to micro-enterprises in order to protect the rights of creditors more effectively. In the case of personal bankruptcy, the basis was to limit the possibility of abuse of the institution of remission of obligations and to reduce the probationary period for the most socially disadvantaged categories of debtors, such as pensioners, disabled persons, single parents and other debtors who receive only minimum income. Social Democrats in the bill will not oppose the desire that the proposed and adopted solutions are correct and that they will be taken into account in practice. We are aware of the need for social democrats to provide conditions that will allow for the rapid and efficient restructuring of businesses and the speedy completion of bankruptcy procedures. We believe, however, that only by means of legal changes will we prevent abuses that occur not only in this area but mainly in the area of personal bankruptcy, but in all procedures where an individual feels and feels that some act of rejection can circumvent the law and thus gain material benefit at the expense of the affected. We have once, in similar discussions, pointed out that a culture of management in the management of businesses needs to be established. Let us also remember that we have examples of good practice in how to get businesses from the bottom to a higher level of business and to greater visibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will move the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The law that we are considering is probably one of the most complex and imprecise laws we have in this country. It is written in such a way that it cannot even be read normally, and experts usually call it a minefield, and because of the frequency of posting provisions, they compare walking on it with an indicative course. Such a law, of course, cannot serve its purpose, but serves only consulting companies that, because of its complexity, fill their wallets with expensive advisory contracts. But, of course, expensive advice can be enjoyed primarily by business owners, while those who should be protected by this law are said to be the weakest, those who work in companies cannot afford it and are therefore discriminated against through this law twice. For the first time, they are discriminated against because the law protects banks, states and owners of claims payments, and for the second time, workers are discriminated against because they cannot afford expensive worlds in the exercise of their right. The result of such an arrangement is addresses that can be read daily in newspapers. For example, the workers are successful in lawsuits, but the money is not, the company is in trouble, the workers are without pay, 348 workers are again unemployed, workers get only 300 euros in 4 months and so on. This is a real picture of the effectiveness of this legislation that we have before us. Unfortunately, with the novel you have prepared, the situation for the weak will not be much better. That insolvency law is criminal, the Ombudsman also warns each year in his regular reports. He pointed out the problem this year and we also warned her about it in the United Left, but there is no real implementation of the recommendations. We have therefore proposed an amendment in the United Left to open the law this time, with which we would at least partially eliminate one great injustice, in the direction that we are going to the workers, i.e. the creditors, who are the only ones with limited claims according to the time of origin or the amount of the claim, change that. In the framework of the priority claims, only unpaid salaries are now considered for a period of three months prior to the start of the bankruptcy, and our amendment would count all unpaid salaries, all unpaid emoluments and all unpaid contributions. It is said that we would no longer be confined to these three months, the last three months before bankruptcy, but would put all unpaid salaries, all retirement payments and all unpaid contributions into the employee's priority pay. Unfortunately, the government and the coalition only partially agreed to this solution on the committee, namely only the part that directly affects the income of the country, not the income of the workers, i.e. the unpaid contributions, while leaving the rest unchanged. We have even heard that this is not worth changing because the workers themselves are supposed to be responsible for the courses or for the late bankruptcys and are therefore responsible for the unpaid salaries themselves. Such views in our view are totally unacceptable and worthy of judgment, so we persist in our amendment and have tabled it today for a meeting. In short, in the debate on the amendments, we will propose to include all unpaid salaries, all unpaid retirements and all contributions and not compromise, the compromise offered by the coalition, which is to include only unpaid contributions, while everything would remain limited to three months. If we go after this analogy, and then simply for banks, states and owners, or for banks, we make it a limit to only get a third of the unpaid, unpaid loans reimbursed if the company goes bankrupt. In short, it's on our side that we're tying our support to the amendment. However, if this double unequal treatment of workers continues to be included in the law, there is no way we can support the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u128	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that the pillar of economic activity development in Slovenia is just small and medium-sized enterprises. In Novi Slovenije, when we adopted the amendment to the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination procedures at the end of 2013, we opposed a solution that only envisaged preventive restructuring procedures for large and medium-sized companies. The fact is that there has been no rational reason for this type of procedure so far to be limited to a systemically important society, i.e. to medium and large companies. The restriction of the scope of the simplified compulsory settlement entities only makes sense to micro-companies, but at the same time raises doubts as the amendment provides that the simplified compulsory settlement does not affect the claims for taxes and contributions provided for in the law governing the tax procedure. This means that the State as a creditor is in a privileged position compared to others, I can also say ordinary creditors, and in this case their legal protection is questionable. Even though this is mostly the case with the tax imposed in the inspection procedures, this is not the reason why the State will be paid in the simplified enforcement procedure to the other creditors as a matter of priority. That the institute of personal bankruptcy has been repeatedly abused in recent years by bankruptcy debtors has been true. There have been many cases of drunkenness that the citizens find totally unjustifiable and unworthy of this institute. All additional insurers, including the discharge of the insolvency debtor's obligations, which currently do not allow for dismissal in certain cases, do, however, bring about improvements or a fairer regime of personal bankruptcy. The restriction on the discharge of the insolvency debtor's obligations should be laid down in sharper terms as soon as this institution is in force in 2007, as it is unacceptable that the dismissal has also been allowed in cases where the bankruptcy debtor has been convicted of a criminal offence against the property and the economy. Although such anomalies do not achieve their objective of the personal bankruptcy procedure, the good purpose of such an anomaly is not to achieve it. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the proposal for a new Law on Financial Business, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation. However, despite our support, we believe that the issue of lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is still insufficient, must also be established. This fact also contributes to the undergrowth of these companies, which would certainly be an additional value to the overall economic growth through favourable lending. This would also help to reduce the number of all procedures envisaged by the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u130	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In the transition we have witnessed, both economic and political, the economy has gone its way and, of course, we have also received bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings. We were not prepared for this, especially legislation that followed individual cases rather than systemicly addressing the problem. It is the fact that management should ensure that companies are solventory and, if insolvency occurs, they will make sure that enforcement procedures are put in place or that they go bankrupt and are essentially management and their actions, they are responsible, following the example of German legislation, they should be responsible. We didn't follow that. Once again, I will draw attention to those main findings that we have already presented on the Committee, something that has not yet been regulated in this proposed law and what could be better regulated. The point is that if the purpose of the law was to regulate abuses in personal bankruptcy, we expected a little more information, such abuses, who was responsible for these abuses, and how we could prevent them. It is a matter of being able to regulate forgiveness now and when a person is convicted or is still in tax evasion, such leave is not possible. However, the problem is what is in Slovenia, that institutions do not work together and this is also the work of other institutions such as Furs and others. If the purpose of the law is to regulate personal bankruptcy, then a pretty good part of the law is aimed at forcible settlement for small businesses. Here we are going in the wrong direction again, if these companies were now – simplified – in a forced settlement and if this worked well, I do not know why we are changing this, but if they were abuses, let us expose them and see who is responsible. The point is that when such a compulsory settlement becomes the same as for large enterprises, it means that procedures will be more expensive, because we need to separate resources from the masses for bankruptcy managers, auditors, lawyers, financial advisers and others. The third problem raised by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce – this is a test of claims. The bankruptcy managers are not supposed to test claims because they usually run out of money in mass, but this claim test is still important for creditors, because it is an executive address in other procedures. Without this, they will not receive a tax refund, the procedures will be withdrawn, and in most cases they will not receive anything from the mass. In summary, we see that the measures go more towards acting on small debtors, that the procedures will be longer, which was explained in the introduction. It is a challenge to wait for orders from other courts or other proceedings, to extend complaints and so on. It will be more expensive to draw on the masses for lawyers, financial advisers and others and what the Law-Legal Service has pointed out, the non-compliance of the law with itself and other laws. The point is that if abuses are, according to the law, the Ministry of Justice is competent, I think that the Ministry should monitor managers more up-to-date, monitor, distribute and worry about licensing; you know, the changes proposed are going in this direction, that judges in large and medium-sized enterprises will choose for themselves, but they will not choose bankruptcy managers randomly, as this computer program is now in circulation. We will not support all the proposed amendments to the Group of Non-Aligned Members because of all the above-mentioned changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The CAPIPP, referred to as the insolvency law, will support its amendment by the Group of the Modern Centre Party for the main reason that it was actually necessary to amend this law in the area of personal bankruptcy management. The personal bankruptcy was introduced by this law in 2008 and the debtors have begun to serve it in a mass way, and now we also have permitted waivers of obligations by amending the law, which has enacted a solution to grant free legal aid to cover the initial costs of bankruptcy, i.e. for the costs of the manager, particularly for the number of personal bankruptcys. However, the problem is that in the law itself there are systemic possibilities for abuse, a lack of regulation that needs to be upgraded. I myself had the opportunity to learn about this in the procedures of personal bankruptcy, which I myself have led. It's not just big stories, I don't know, one tycoon who's in personal bankruptcy right now, but actually for people, common debtors, if I name them, who have the opportunity to abuse them now. Of course, not everyone does it, but there are. Therefore, it is very welcome to amend this Code in the area of the debtor's obligation to inform the administrator of the change in his contact details. It is also important to establish a general provision which constitutes an obstacle to the waiver of an obligation, since there are particular reasons for discharge of obligations or obstacles to debtors. It is also important to extend the time limit for an objection to a waiver decision, which is now until the end of the procedure itself, so that the manager may, when he finds that the debtor is abusing his obligations, that the conditions for waiver of the obligation are no longer given, submit this objection and that the debtor's obligation is not forgiven. For the basic purpose of most procedures is to forgive obligations. Since there are many other amendments to the law that will help to reduce the abuse of the institution of personal bankruptcy in the future and to achieve that basic purpose of the institution of personal bankruptcy, and this is the waiver of obligations to debtors who, in fact and indeed without abuse, cannot be settled by some for the rest of their lives and to allow these debtors new beginnings. For the creditors, even if they had led the execution to death against these debtors, would not have obtained payment for objective reasons, because the debtor cannot settle these obligations. There is also a very important instrument for the social instrument of bankruptcy law, which also allows workers, i.e. all those who have fallen deeply into insolvency, to get rid of these obligations over a certain period of time. It will now be possible to shorten the trial period to 6 months. In short, it is important to upgrade, improve, and as this law also regulates, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre supports the change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u134	All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures prepared by the Government and supported by coalition parties is not just an unfortunate government manoeuvre. It is a matter of much more; it is a matter of a multifaceted contention of this proposal. The controversy of the proposed amendments was not only raised in the Slovenian Democratic Party and other opposition parties, but it was also pointed out by the interested professional public, especially the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The problem raised by the proposed solutions was also highlighted by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in its opinion, stated that individual provisions were constitutionally disputed both in terms of retroactivity, proportionality and legal certainty requirements. According to the information we have heard, we should also have a similar position in the Office of the Government of Law. Finally, the proposed law of amendment and supplementation is also problematic in terms of transparency, as the deadlines have been greatly reduced due to the convening of the urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice. The notice came from both the Law and Law Service and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where there was virtually no possibility to define professionally the very important amendments that had been tabled just before the present. Finally, this is ironic in some way, given that Minister Klemenčič, who served as president of the KPK, was, of course, a different government, at the time, pleased to stress the importance of transparency in the adoption of legislation. Even after these changes, but this, unfortunately, will remain the fact that Slovenian insolvency law will not celebrate efficiency and that it will be fairer in doing so. The fact is that it will still allow the owners and administration of the company of debtors after months and even years to conceal the insolvency of the company and thus further exhaust the company. Among the problematic proposals for amendments to this Act is the provision that the State's claims will be absolutely privileged in relation to all other creditors. As if other creditors, for example companies, do not need to pay their claims, because these creditors also pay taxes to that country, they have their employees, for whom they have to pay all the appropriate contributions, pay their salaries and, last but not least, have to pay their obligations to suppliers. And here is this vicious circle, because from the point of view there are very talkative data that the number of liquidation procedures in the last year has grown faster than the number of registered companies. That's the problem. In 2014, there were a thousand 300 insolvency proceedings, for example during the first Janša government around 330. We are talking here about smaller companies, and this should, in fact, focus on the strategy of Slovenia, because things are only going to go down to the lower levels. The Minister also acknowledged on the committee responsible that the proposed amendments could somehow add to the burden of the judiciary. This is why we all have a headache together, because Slovenia is already famous for its long court proceedings, so that I do not expose the so-called economic dispute. In short, it is a proposal full of contradictions, inconsistencies and a significant taste in the fact that insolvency laws are being prepared by those in ministries who, on the other hand, advise those who find themselves in these proceedings. Despite our negative experiences with this coalition in support of the amendments in the SDS, we have tabled an amendment for today following the comments of the public concerned. If the coalition does not already want to hear and follow our proposals, then it should take account of its coalition records and take into account the professionally interested public, as promised at the beginning of the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We are talking about that law again. Let me point out that it is not nearly a trivial law, but a very sensitive law or regulation, which has also recently changed a lot, most recently in 2014. That we have difficulties in implementing insolvency law in Slovenia has been demonstrated by practice, as well as by the debate on the working body of the mother, so it is all the more important that the effects of the law are monitored all the time. On the basis of the monitoring of the effects, today we have before us a proposal for a law which has been put forward, I am sure that there is much effort, energy, will and interdepartmental coordination both by the various ministries and the Bank of Slovenia, Furs, the judiciary, and last but not least the representatives of the economy and all other stakeholders. On the basis of the approach set out in Desus, we support ministers to prepare amendments to the law, as these are changes and additions that follow the resolution of certain problems that have already been identified and must be addressed as quickly as possible. In our parliamentary group, we believe that this is a law whose implementation in practice will only show whether further changes are needed or whether these changes that we are implementing are good enough, of course, we want one. Most of the substantive changes are further designed to prevent the possibility of abuse of personal bankruptcy in an area not currently adequately regulated. In order to protect creditors more effectively, the simplified enforcement procedure is limited to smaller, if you want, micro companies. And a few more words about the institute of personal bankruptcy. This was introduced in 2008 and has not changed significantly since then, and practice has shown that there is a type of abuse that needs to be prevented. That is why we believe in the Group of Members that these changes are welcome and urgently necessary. That the number of personal bankruptcys is increasing each year for various reasons, the following figures will be added. Last year, the most natural persons have been claimed for personal bankruptcy since this possibility existed. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, the number of personal bankruptcy claims was around a thousand, and then in 2014, although neither the financial nor economic crisis started at that time, it even increased to a number of over 4,000 cases, and last year there were several more cases. The media's most responsive cases are, of course, those relating to the failed construction barons and other tycoons, in which it is clear to all that they are exploiting the institute of personal bankruptcy. These so-called tycoons have a personal bankruptcy for a procedural manoeuvre to stall with. Often, property, yachts, cars, such and other movable or immovable property are copied to acquaintances, relatives, and then personal bankruptcy. At this very point in the Desus Group we welcome the additions which represent a series of safeguards and the possibility of limiting the abuse of this institution. The amendment of the law introduces additional buffers for creditors and improves their position and limits the risk of lower remuneration or abuse in personal bankruptcy by the debtor. Groups and circumstances are expanding where waivers are not possible, time limits and deadlines for the possibility of competitive transactions are extended. To conclude, in the Desus Group, we want this institution of personal bankruptcy not only to be a minor abuse, but to completely and definitively eradicate the abuse of this institution. In this light, in this spirit, as well as in the light and spirit of strengthening the rule of law, to which the amendment of this law also contributes, we will, of course, fully support the law, in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23 March 2016. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the United Left Group and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and the US. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u138	Your Honor, thank you for your word. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 or to Article 20 of the Law in order to extend the period or number of wages that are considered to be priority in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. We have taken this step for a reason because the practice so far has somehow shown that a worker who works in a society that is prior to bankruptcy, who is in a bad business, who pays income irregularly or does not pay them at all, is often in a dilemma, or should take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Labour Relations Act, that is to say, to give an extraordinary cancellation of the employment contract, or to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the present law, that is to propose a start — due to insolvency, let's say — a bankruptcy procedure. The Act on Employment Relations concerning the Emergency Cancellation of an Employment Contract in Article 111 lays down the taxing conditions in which a worker may submit such an extraordinary termination of an employment contract; two or three indents also provide for a period when conditions, such as irregular payment of wages, non-payment of wages, are to be met. These periods shall be extended to a period of six months. It is precisely because a worker who may meet these conditions under the Labour Relations Act or thinks about exploiting the possibilities offered by the ZFPPIPP, that he is not forced to calculate what is due him or what is not, that it is more appropriate to extend this period by six months. That's six paychecks. The United Left Group proposes that all salaries be included in the law as priority claims. We do not agree with this because the arrangement must be such that all stakeholders who somehow gather around an insolvency debtor force themselves to take advantage of all legal options. So, the possibilities under insolvency law, by criminal procedure or by labour law or by criminal law, I'm sorry. And provided that all wages would be covered during this period, it would somehow mean that, or somehow allow the possibility that workers who have rights under the ZFPPIPP would not be sufficiently exploited or that even in practice situations could occur where the employer would pay something in hand and prolong their agony in the company instead of taking advantage of the possibilities and, say, proposing bankruptcy proceedings. As regards the non-payment of three or six salaries and the classification of three or six wages prior to the insolvency proceedings, there are also some responses in this direction: however, the employee may propose bankruptcy proceedings already if two salaries have not been paid to him. Present or current jurisprudence goes in this direction, in fact, that the worker himself cannot even say that workers are often unsuccessful in doing so. The practice goes somehow in this direction that it is not possible at all if it is individual wages, I have not observed the practice regarding salaries of fewer workers So if a smaller number of workers or a larger number of workers do not receive paid salaries, it is said whether they have the opportunity to propose bankruptcy. [[…]] In short, in this work legal practice is very inconsistent. In some cases, it is expected that all workers must be free of pay and, consequently, that it is very difficult for them to obtain such information, whether the conditions for the insolvency procedure required by the worker to initiate such a procedure are laid down. For this reason, we believe that this 6-month period also helps to ensure that a worker who is in such a company or more workers obtain more information on the employer's business, to obtain more information on whether workers are all or what number of wages they receive and whether conditions are laid down to be able to propose the bankruptcy procedure themselves, and, as I have already mentioned, to enable them to use the institutes under the labour law under 111, which says that certain conditions must be met within 6 months in order to enable the worker to exceptionally cancel the employment contract. We will therefore support the amendment of the SMC Group, and we will not support, for the reasons described, the amendment of the United Left Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This is, I don't know, I think a tenth of the novelty of the law, ever since I can remember, in this National Assembly since 2008. I rarely agree with the views of the United Left, but these statements have been made, which drink water and hold. In fact, even in the judicial circles of this law, there is a relatively clear story; if you want to make a mistake in judging, it is the easiest thing to do in this marriage. This law is so impenetrable, so impossible to read that when you read a paragraph or an indent in a paragraph that refers to ten other paragraphs, you need two hours to understand it. But the author of these matters was Nina Platez, more or less all the time, and there was no difference in this novel, even though the secretary of state, on some occasion, when she presented one of the previous novels, somehow assured that they would try to save this lady. In fact, because the problem of all these changes, including today's, is that these changes work and work in such a way that, of course, these authors, in particular this lady and the other authors, then teach the judges how to read this law at all. And, of course, they write changes for change, for change, for change, for change, for change, for change and so on and so on and so on and thus for themselves to earn. Why do you make your own money? Because they keep teaching them, and the bankers keep teaching them, and the businessmen, and the judges, and so on and so on. Until we reach a law in this area, which, at least as I see you at the justice ministry, is a guarantee that you will never make this law – at least this is a guide, I will say, a guarantee that there will be no such law – but until this law is made in a clear, transparent state, we will have great problems by then. The problems in this area are extremely large and changes to change go in the direction of harming those who are already most affected, these are usually workers. This is a problematic matter, and until we change it, nothing will get better. We got on the table today, so to speak, by email, as I see today's date of the case, the protest of virtually all union centers. Virtually all trade unions existing in Slovenia signed under this protest. I don't know if you've seen him, you've probably got him on e-mails, I've tried to read him, and of course they're protesting, and I think they're right. The chairman of the committee, as I recall, was invited by NGOs. What does Amnesty International have to do with this law, or do I not know who else has been invited? However, they are not invited workers' representatives, so trade unions, and I think we should also stop this practice, especially those who are interested in these matters and for these changes, but not some non-governmental ones, which I still call them – we know how. They live on the state stand to fuck this same country over – I mean mostly Amnesty International and someone else. It would probably be in this process to attract the unions and these organisations. As for our position on these concrete amendments, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has already presented the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u141	The word is mag's Minister of Justice. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. I'm going to respond briefly to some of the things that were really set up in the first round, and I'm going to start with the last speaker that I've been watching for a while, and I see that you're going back to the roots, maybe you'll come to the other side. Let's be precise, this law was passed in 2007, when your government was in power. All further changes were necessary due to the economic situation and because the basic law did not respond to the challenges faced by Slovenia in the economic crisis. Each amendment has further complicated the law. I agree with this and it is one of the most difficult laws, but every law has also been very closely coordinated with different stakeholders, and in particular supervised by the European Commission, which has welcomed the implementation of this law in all the problems we have. That is how your party referred to the extraordinary meeting of the Justice Committee or the entire Parliament each year, when the report of the Doing Business World Bank came out. Last year's Doing Business report, which is why we did not have an extraordinary meeting or this year's Doing Business report, highlighted and established progress in the area of insolvency as an example of good practice compared to other countries. These are the facts that are available on the e-mails, on the websites and so on. I agree that the law will probably require a whole new law once, but at this point we are not prepared – not because we would not have the will, but simply because we could actually undermine those positive trends that in this area at the beginnings that were not good, but which stem from your government, in fact, have been highlighted. However, I would like to point out something very clearly that I understand that you are opposed to this law in that part of the various restructurings and that you are therefore using such and different motives, but by opposing all the law, the whole law, insisting on the solutions that you have adopted in 2007, and these solutions are that I can go to personal bankruptcy, that I can transfer even property to my family members, to related societies three years ago, and that all debts will be written down, because the current law that you all have written, which is still in force and which amendment we are proposing, makes this possible. The type of abuse that occurred in personal bankruptcy is thus eliminated and none of the interested stakeholders, nor the unions, have had problems regulating the system in the area of private bankruptcy as proposed. Not even most other opposition parties; just you. That is why I understand that it will be public and public once again: the SDS insists on the current regulation of the law which, in the area of personal bankruptcy, allows for the situation as it is today, where the personal bankruptcy may be sought under the same conditions by Ivan Zidar, and is treated equally, or the mother of a single woman who has been on a social minimum for ten years now, because these things are regulated by this law. Second thing. It's a combined left. I seriously believe your intentions are good, but I cannot agree with your prognosis that the weakest of these laws will be no different. I believe it won't be different enough for your value points. However, with this law and with the amendment, the novel previously proposed by your fellow SMC Member and supported by the Government, and with some other solutions, however, the socially weak and workers with this law have been given a step forward. The first big thing is that the law is to a large extent trying to limit abuse. Restricting the abuse of unknown, dishonest, speculative debtors. If you do this, not only do you benefit the banks that have a substantial chance to fight these abuses, but you benefit the workers, the small entrepreneurs and all the others who are the creditors of such a company. Six months, three months – I can agree with six months, but somewhere we need to establish proportions. Look, if we give, say, all wages, we have a big problem with this, because it's against, say, the Chamber of Commerce and various small entrepreneurs, who also have their employees, who can't recover these funds, because they're all wages, say, a priority claim. Besides, he's been talking about this before. Then the severance package. I say again, so the government cannot support your amendment. As I say, I believe he's well-intentioned, but he would have made an even greater anomaly and inequality. In fact, if an amendment such as the one you propose were adopted, workers who worked until the end of the bankruptcy and workers who, for example, lost or left the job just before the company went bankrupt would be in an unequal position because one were entitled to leave after the Labour Relations Act, the other after the ZFPIPPP and would be those who remained and did not have the right to leave in that sense in an inappropriately bad situation than someone who had been two months before the company went bankrupt would have agreed and left. So that just suggests the complexity of the case. One more thing I would say is that there is not a colleague of Dobovsk who has specifically pointed out that there is nothing wrong with the law if it responds appropriately to abuses and if the Ministry of Justice is well placed to exercise its supervisory function. Tell me how you can perform a supervisory function and prevent abuse if your marriage says that there are, say, three years of possibilities to challenge certain transactions that transfer property to a family member or some other. You can't! That's why you need a different legal basis, so you need this one. You can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it. [[…]] The marriage framework itself was pretty bad here. One last thing, because I think here I really believe it's even a misunderstanding, because it's said that now it's going to be a full reflection of various bankruptcy procedures and so on. It is very clear that bankruptcy is still exactly the same as for a set of different measures, we are only talking about forced settlement. The proposal for a law on the restructuring of small companies allows for the conduct of preventive restructuring procedures and the application of specific additional rules in the enforcement procedure, which has so far only been applied to large and medium-sized companies. What does it matter? These procedures are actually more expensive than a simplified forced comparison, but on the other hand they have or provide the company with much more effective options for restructuring. And that's the point of keeping societies alive, because statistics and analyses have shown that because of the system that it has now been in force, a lot of companies, small companies, have gone into these procedures to avoid tax obligations and – now I am looking at you – obligations to workers or social contributions. Now, of course, this process will be a little more difficult, but it is aimed at preserving jobs, restructuring companies and providing small businesses with all the legal and institutional opportunities that have already been offered by large and medium-sized companies and which, with all the negative elements, have occasionally proved positive. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u143	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u144	Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Madam President, I very much ask you to warn the Minister, who has a very important and responsible role in this country, not to offend Members and Members of Parliament, what colour they use and what kind of materials they use, and then to place them in other political parties. Because otherwise I ask you to give us a list of what kind of jobs we have to do, it says what kind of clothes we have to wear and also what colors our appliances can be in. I think it's extremely unserious and insulting. And what is even more important, and most importantly, is to warn him, Mr President, that if he is already sitting here, he will listen to the views of the members of the groups, if he then comments on them. In fact, the lie that the Slovenian Democratic Party opposes this law is very problematic for me from the Minister of Justice's mouth. In one sentence, we did not say that we are completely opposed to the law. That's not what was said. And the minister constantly allows himself to be misled in this national council without chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u146	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. On a purely general level, we have already stated on the committee that we are in the position that this law, which is before us, should be completely recast, because we have simply overly complicated it – that is, if I am not mistaken about the tenth novel of this law – is too complex to read. For example, we have the 44th article, article 221. it is, as experts say, a minefield or walking between all the posting articles is an indicative course that only rare qualified persons and businesses in this Slovenia can do. Therefore, for practical use, especially for those who need it, for employees, for workers who do not receive unpaid salaries, it is practically useless and impossible to protect or recover their rights by means of this law. We are therefore in the position that this legislation needs to be reformed and that we need a new law that will simplify the procedures that will be effective and that will be readable and, above all, apply. Thus, it is a matter which this novel does not solve in any way, but rather additionally at the points of the complication, and is essentially preserved in this law, as I would say, by inert injustice, that in its very form this law gives priority to those who can afford expensive legal advice, namely, the owners, the state, the banks and so on, and puts in a totally unequal position an employee who cannot afford this legal advice. Therefore, employees are already deprived of their right and power at this purely basic, formal level in insolvency proceedings, on the other hand. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that no unions have been invited to this hearing. Today we have received a letter in essence, if I am not mistaken about all 7 representative union centres, which point out that when there are cases such as unpaid salaries paid to employees in the debate, trade unions as their representative should be included in such a debate, not that we have talked in essence only with non-governmental organisations. Therefore, I would like to point out here that I expect trade unions and other labour organisations protecting the interests of employees in this country to be included in the debate following such changes. Then on, about the amendment we tabled and the amendment of the coalition. Here I agree with you, Mr Minister, and I am pleased that the coalition has taken this step to prepare you after a debate on the committee when we have proposed that you simply remove all restrictions on the payment of unpaid salaries, departures and contributions that you have gone at least so far as to extend this period from three to six months. So now you've made an amendment that will not only pay the employees back for the last three months, but get them for six months. There's progress here, and I welcome it. But at the same time, I'm stressing two things. Firstly, this is not enough, because we often have cases in these procedures where, say, a company that has gone into trouble doesn't pay its wages for two months and then pays it off for two months and then doesn't pay it for another month and then pays it off for three months and so on. And it can drag through years, as we have seen in many cases of bankrupt companies in Slovenia. However, employees always take short notice because, by law, only for the last three months, unpaid salaries are covered so that they will be able to recover from the process, while everything else falls. I mean, that's the first problem with that. The second problem is that, in fact, employees are placed in an unequal position — once again — compared to, say, banks, because it is not clear what we can justify in the first place that banks can run out of bankruptcy or claim all their outstanding loans, while workers have a restriction that only three unpaid salaries can claim their right. Then why don't we put the same limit on banks after the same analogy? Why aren't only credits granted in the last three months accounted for? Or why not just one third of the credits granted? I don't get it. Right, what is your excuse that we have a limitation on the employees' side, while on the other hand there is no limit. Why is there a limit to the workers, why is there no limit to the banks? Or rather, the issue is the other way around. If there is no limit to banks, states and others, then why is there a restriction on employees? This reply would be asked, in particular by both the coalition and the Ministry, what the justification is for such an intervention. Then perhaps, if I reply briefly to the fact that some argument has been made the last time, that sometimes workers are responsible for not getting paid or not paying their wages, because they themselves do not initiate bankruptcy proceedings. [[…]] Now, Mr Zorčič, you have been here citing how this is in legal practice. With these arguments you have now made, I can agree, but I would point out the following: workers most often do not require bankruptcy for a completely simple reason. Because, say, if we take the Alpine in the Jurassic. There are currently 355 jobs. The company operates positively, but it is burdened by loans made by its former owner. If the workers now demanded that this company go bankrupt – what are they risking? They risk losing most of these jobs. And to someone who, I don't know, worked in this company for thirty years or more, lives in the Jury, but that's all about what he can do, says in this job was his whole life – what's left of him? All practices in Slovenia show that most likely, after the bankruptcy of this company, he will be sentenced to long-term unemployment. That is why I think that defending these restrictions is totally unfair, non-lifeless and also inhuman to these people. So once again, I call on the coalition to consider the total elimination of these restrictions, which we are proposing in the United Left. Because we don't see anyone losing anything with it. However, the weakest, who are already so bullied in this law, will have at least the possibility of getting unpaid salaries back after a company has gone into serious trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u148	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We are talking about the so-called Article 1, two amendments have been tabled; one on the United Left, which has somehow made a similar proposal to the procedure already on the working body, and now also an amendment to the coalition, which should somehow have been a response to the committee's proposal at the time. Look, I find this literally ridiculous and irresponsible. I mean, you're going here for a few numbers and a few months without some basis. I don't understand that! I'm talking about people who don't get paid, who don't have any other allowances or obligations that belong to them or belong to them, and here we are baranting worse than the defenses on the market I don't know, three months is now, no, we're going to give 6 months; this complete write-off, it's just saying that these things are being paid in full – no, that's not! [[…]] And that's not what the minister said, because then there would be problems on the other side. If something belongs to someone, they just need to be able to do it. Someone was working, someone was creating. We cannot now look for reasons for those who, of course, have fallen into some other problem. For, see, the same law provides in Article 8 that the bank and the insurance company, and so on, will be in favour of another company which also has employees. But do not undo this, even though everyone warns you that this is not the right solution! But here we are talking, can we go six months — I don't know, why not one year, two years? I just don't get it. Do you have any calculations, any grounds for how these amendments are being tabled? For at the beginning we did not deal with some financial consequences, even in this respect. Sometimes I feel like some people are just numbers and some months. Of course, it's also positive for 6 months, so I agree, but the reasons, you know, for the whole vacation and how to get to the bottom of it and allow fair work to be paid, but it's our duty! And I'm having a hard time accepting some explanation that then the others here will get hurt. Of course, from the whole point of view of the country, it is necessary to determine whether this money can be secured in some other way, but it must be settled. Our country can be credited, we can handle it, we take credit for credit, but one has to be paid. Such solutions are certainly not good because they show that we are not all the same in this country before marriage. This is a problem and I don't understand if we insist that things don't change here, then fine, I would believe that you're defending it because the existing system is such that it doesn't allow a different solution. But with this kind of bartering, and now six months, maybe we could raise it a little bit today, but let's give it 7 months, and it shows that this approach to drafting this law is completely insurmountable.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u150	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Today, however, we have heard a lot about this bankruptcy law — that I do not pronounce that long name — has a long name. It is complex, even in my opinion, I have also used it and worked with it, but the courts have finally gotten used to it, finally organized and established work processes in these years, many things Please, can I speak now? [[…]] Many procedures are conducted by professional colleagues, and these procedures have finally escaped. Change, writing a brand-new law would require a really big change, a lot of effort at the moment. The European Union also notes that this would now be unnecessary and could be counterproductive. According to the statements of all those who know each other, among other things, colleague Dobovška, who says the position and goes what is not regulated in this law, so that the responsibility of management should not be regulated. That's just not true! We have a second chapter in this law on the financial operations of companies and other legal persons, and the fundamental obligations of management are regulated in this chapter. Management, paragraph 28. For example, the first paragraph, "... must ensure that society operates in accordance with this law and the rules of the business and financial profession." And a few articles in this area: compensation claims in this area are already being filed, procedures are under way, legal practice will be created, already being created, so I don't know where these rules are now, who is missing, maybe just who doesn't know them. Furthermore, once again, Member Dobovska's claim, the claim test. This is the executive address, says Member Dobovšek, and it is very important because we will not have it if the bankruptcy procedure is completed without the distribution of creditors – we do not have this document. Firstly, if legal persons are involved, if the proceedings are completed, this legal, enforcement address does not help us, because, with the completion of the proceedings against the legal person, this legal person dies, is deleted from the legal register, it is not. If any of this legal person tries to recover, it may only show that he does not know that this legal person no longer exists and that all legal remedies against him are being rejected. With regard to the termination of the proceedings, I think that this provision is applied in order not to test claims in the case of a natural person, and this is not an enforceable title, a claim test, but the law provides in particular in Article 396 - c of Article - that what exactly is an enforceable address when it comes to a natural person. However, if we find that the claim test is not possible, because there is not enough property, and this amendment to the law now regulates what has not been arranged, what happens to the interrupted proceedings, what happens if any property is found later, and then a claim test is needed, so that these things are settled and we can't just say that nothing is arranged, everything is terrible and I don't know what. The law is complex, you need a cross-check to get used to it, but as I say, there are a lot of readings just like that, on your mind and on your finger. In view of the obvious, I cannot go past him that now the costs of consulting will be needed again and I do not know what, because small companies will also have to use the enforcement procedure, no longer a simplified enforcement settlement. Listen, a forced settlement isn't a joke! Forcible settlement means that the debtor settles the reduced liability, plus the extension of the repayment period. In this procedure, we need to have a basis for determining whether the court finds them with the assistance of the administrator, whether there are actually claims in existence, and also for creditors to be able to make their claims clear that they are being argued if necessary; that is to say that we get an insight into whether there are actually claims that are being settled by individuals and businesses in a simplified enforcement procedure, companies can agree without the cooperation of the court, without the cooperation of the administrator, that these claims are being reduced or that their payment is extended. So it wouldn't just be like that, and a forced settlement works if it's not a simplified compulsory settlement, it works for all creditors, except for those who are exempt under the law itself. [[…]] For example, secured claims also affect those creditors who did not participate in the enforcement process. They had the option and it also has an effect on them, on ordinary claims. So this is where we have to protect the creditors. The enforcement procedure shall be designed to protect creditors. A simple forced settlement, so not the one that is simplified, ensures this. Now, if we are making a flat-rate statement here, because there is a need to provide a financial restructuring plan, an audit report, and that there is a manager involved to enable creditors to participate in the process at all and to ensure that all annexes and evidence of these claims are provided and that they are in the interest of creditors in the process. Therefore, this process is necessary and must be conducted and I fully agree that small companies are also required to be included in this process. It may also be necessary to provide assistance to workers and natural persons who cannot bear the financial burden of these procedures. For the first time, free legal aid is provided automatically, without the application of the provisions of the Free Legal Aid Act. In addition, a special article, which specifically allows natural persons, i.e. workers, to draw up an application for the initiation of a personal bankruptcy orally on the record in court. Thus, there are several mechanisms that also allow the socially weak to use the legal remedies available to them in accordance with this law. So we can't just casually say that workers and natural persons, but people don't have a chance in these procedures. However, as regards the payment of claims, only one warning, claims are settled in bankruptcy proceedings, not from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u152	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Since I spoke in principle about Article 1 above, allow me to say something about the proposal in general. In fact, our thought and I also agree with those who have already warned me about this is that it would be right to prepare a proposal for amendments or a proposal for a new law. Why? Because of the fact that the existing solutions or corrections have been added several times, the matter certainly has shortcomings in this way as regards transparency and usefulness. What I heard earlier from my colleague Murgle, that we should leave things alone, that the judges are barely accustomed to what is stipulated in the law, and that seems a little ridiculous to me. Because if that were true, then let us no longer accept any new law in this national assembly, or let us not correct any other laws, because the judges will have problems because they will have to refer to some procedures as new. Yes, of course they do! That says the most about you. Yeah. In short, the fact is that it would certainly be wiser for the state to take on a new marriage, perhaps take a month more time, and prepare solutions. The Minister said earlier that this is not how they did it, but because the existing law, of course, has some positive effects. Absolutely, I agree with you, but that doesn't mean that once you're preparing a new law, that you have to change everything that's happened so far; you just leave it or introduce it or prepare it again, and of course, what was good is there, of course, you let it go, because things don't go completely to the head and to the new. I therefore do not think that this argument will hold, but I believe that when such a law is taken up, the interests are different, especially those of those involved in the drafting of these laws. They are absolutely different, and I also believe what the Minister said on the parental committee that these changes have already taken place with a shivering hand. It is only necessary to ask, then, who is the one to prepare the law in its entirety if the most responsible are already taking action with a shaking hand. See, the changes that are ahead of us today have practical opposition – not only to the professional public, but also to the trade unions today. The whole opposition also warned that individual solutions were bad. I no longer understand that this government is constantly – no, here we leave the opposition – you are constantly opposed by citizens and citizens with serious calls: you have policemen who strike; you have municipalities that oppose your solutions because you do not know how to talk to them; you are proposing laws where your unions are raised. Still with some short arms, in a way through the window instead of through the door, you're trying to bring some solutions. Why does it not take time not to allow an interested professional public who is in the interest of such an economy, that such an economy, a small economy and, of course, a state go through these procedures as effectively as possible? But there's not enough time to have time to study the amendment, because they got it just before they did, and they couldn't even define it. Is this really what you said in your coalition contract to follow the needs of citizens and citizens and of course those who need individual changes. It's a distance from people. It's not a job for people, it's a retreat. As far as article 8 of the law is concerned; we are absolutely following here in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we note this and it seems to me that it is also unacceptable that claims such as claims to banks, insurance companies are in favour of other creditors. It's like they're not part of this country. Where is equality before marriage here? You're just a country that makes the law itself, that's the right to be above the others! This solution seems to me to be extremely controversial also because this payment does not result in individual creditors getting paid, then they continue to get into trouble for others, lower than themselves, and so on. I said that before, and we're in some kind of cycle. On the other hand, these companies are failing and the country has to continue to seek solutions for these people and assistance with some other transfers, either in the field of social policy. It's just that we don't do things the right way. I really don't. On the other hand, we have banks that have seriously credited things that have no basis, with one phone call, and we are not able to provide the work of an investigative commission in the National Assembly. And this same ministry is unable to answer the questions why the court in Ljubljana and Maribor decides otherwise on the same matter. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's not the right way and it's not the right way to find solutions. I believe - and in this proposal of law or amendments and additions, there are also good solutions. But, unfortunately, you know, you're gonna break up with the bad guys. That's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u154	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert. First of all, I'm not Murgle, because I don't have a Czech last name, but my last name is Murgel. I'm Jasna Murgel. On the other hand, you obviously know the work of the court because you were probably standing there on one lawn with the protestors — I don't know if you are or not. But I said that this procedure is now in effect, that it is in force for a while, and it is very counterproductive and useless that we are suddenly changing it radically again. Most of the procedures are under way, they're in progress. This is also indicated by statistical data and therefore I am warning only against rapid changes that could harm the court's work and cause damage. As for the comments of a fellow moon, which is also not now, why we do not give the workers everything, why we give the banks, why we are so privileged that we do not have the privilege of having enough workers in the process. Look, we're talking about privileged claims, privileged bankruptcy claims that are paid out to all creditors first. And there's no bank here. See Article 21 of this Act, valid, and what is, the priority claims are the following, first paragraph, point 1: wages and salaries for the last three months prior to the commencement of insolvency proceedings. And then we've got everything else, including the retirement workers' wages and there's no banks here. These are the priority claims that are paid in favour of bankruptcy. Then they come into line, as prescribed by law, because they are relatively complex and the secured claims are ordinary claims. Workers may report all other claims as other creditors and may report them as ordinary claims in insolvency proceedings. So this quote, because someone, I'm sorry, doesn't know enough about matter to know that it's a privileged claim and then says that we discriminate against workers here and that we give more to banks, that's simply not true. However, it is a bankruptcy procedure which has its own rules and which determines what the privileged claims are. Workers are privileged, and for these salaries, which will be a privileged claim, we will also extend this deadline to six months when our amendment is adopted. Well, there are no banks among these claims. I ask you very much not to interpret the provisions of the law again, even though the public will then understand that something is now being arranged here which is not; so the privilege of banks is not, of course, within secured claims, but it is again a matter of matter which is regulated in this process. With regard to the amendment proposing to delete the provision on a simplified compulsory settlement, so that it does not affect the claims for taxes and contributions provided for in the law, I would just like to explain why such claims would only be exempted from this compulsory settlement procedure under the simplified enforcement procedure, only by means of a simplified procedure, not as is the case in Article 21, where the general priority claims are set in the first paragraph. It is a matter of a different status from that of civilian creditors in the simplified enforcement procedure. Civil creditors simply pursue the only thing is that natural persons, economic societies, those who have claims against one another, one are debtors, one are creditors, and pursue their own interest in being paid. However, the State, as a creditor for taxes and contributions, is in a different situation, as it is not an equal entity in relation to these independent entrepreneurs, companies and must also respect other rules; for example, the tax procedure rule, tax recovery and in this enforcement procedure cannot cooperate equally and under the same conditions as other creditors. Therefore, because it was found that there were also abuses found here, that very many of these simplified enforcement procedures were agreed on a simplified enforcement settlement and concluded to avoid the payment of taxes and contributions by debtors and, when they did so, put in an unfavourable position all other natural persons and companies, which pay taxes and contributions if they used this procedure, in order to avoid payment if, for example, they achieved with this agreement that they were exempt from 95 % of the payment of all obligations, i.e. taxes. Where there is no possibility in the simplified enforcement procedure to actually identify or verify, or in any way to establish, as in the ordinary forcible settlement, whether there are actually claims of creditors concluding an agreement on a simplified forcible settlement. This way, however, the State has a special status here and we cannot therefore support an amendment which denies this special status of the State, especially because we want to ensure that all entities, all natural and legal persons are in an equal position to pay the same taxes and contributions and that they are not allowed to do so in this simplified process of forced settlement because it was now a practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u156	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! With regard to Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8, I would like to explain the position of the Government which opposes the proposed amendment. Let me briefly explain why we are proposing to amend Article 221.b, which is contained in Article 8. The analysis of the results of the simplified enforcement arrangements carried out for the 2014 and 2015 procedures is based on the following data. For 2015: 123 procedures have been initiated for a simplified enforcement settlement; 99 cases have been decided by the Court. 63 cases have been confirmed by the Court, 36 have refused or have not issued a decision to approve a simplified enforcement settlement. The characteristic of a simplified compulsory settlement is that it only affects those claims that the debtor indicates on the list of claims. And of course, this list often includes tax debts on contributions or other taxes or compulsory claims. Creditors must, of course, confirm or vote on the proposal for a simplified enforcement settlement, only creditors whose claims are listed and simplified, shall only have effect against those claims listed on that list. So it is in the hands of the debtor to decide which claims on this list yes and which do not. In these 63 cases, when the enforcement settlement was confirmed, the State voted in favour of a simplified enforcement settlement in 12 cases. She opposed the others, but other creditors collected a sufficient majority, so that all these simplified forced settlements were confirmed. On average, these settlements accounted for over 78 % of the debt. The rest was allocated to payments in instalments from 1 to 10 years. Debts due on taxes and contributions amount to more than 10 % of those debts to which simplified compulsory settlement related. We've discovered a whole series of cases where there were 90, 95, even 99%. We note that this simplified enforcement procedure is often abused in connection with procedures against inactive business entities, or popularly called missing traders. The problem we've detected is big and we can address it in two ways. On the one hand, we can introduce certain control mechanisms into a simplified enforcement procedure, making the procedure more expensive, more complex and essentially less attractive to those creditors who really want quick and simple solutions. However, the alternative is to exclude from the negotiation process tax debts which are not, as discussed, some private debts of the Financial Administration, but are essentially public compulsory taxes and for them we set up a different system of suspension of interest payments in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act. We have done likewise in the regulation of preventive financial restructuring. Among these two cases, or two possible solutions to the situation, the government has decided on the latter. With the amendment of the article in question, we propose that the simplified enforcement settlement does not affect obligations or debts arising from the failure to pay public taxes or taxes, but we have also announced this on the committee responsible which has considered this amendment of the law, in order to amend the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Tax Procedure first, and then, by amending the law, to support simplified enforcement procedures in such a way as to ensure that any debtor whose contributions we agree on a simplified compulsory settlement and who will be confirmed in court can receive an automatic payment of up to 24 months or a deferral for tax liabilities, except for contributions where there are restrictions due to the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, it will not be necessary to check that it meets the conditions for deferment or payment of interest. By the end of this year, however, this solution will be upgraded in a way that will be possible to extend the ring payment to a period of 5 years. For the time being, the law allows for these cases for two years, only for preventive financial restructuring procedures for 5 years. We further assess that it is also appropriate to support simplified enforcement procedures with the possibility of a 5-year interest rate payment. Taking into account the above arguments, I reiterate that the Government of the proposed amendment to Article 8 cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u158	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. To respond to the debate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u160	Please come in.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'll be back from the beginning. Thanks for the heads-up, chairman. I would also like to respond somehow to the debate of Ambassador Jasna Murgel. You know, in the country, we're making laws because we want to make things better with them. That's why we accept them. We write them in new writings or we change them. We also change them to keep what is good, and we look for solutions that are even more fair and more just. But we do not accept them, so that, for example, the work of the courts will be easier and that it will run after the work that has been fled, until now. I just can't agree with your argument. But if you do, then you have to sort this out at home, make a deal in the house. Because the minister said that a certain amendment to this law would most likely affect the proceedings, the work of the courts. He confessed it himself. So then you should mention, on the one hand, that there must be no change, because the work that has been done is good; on the other hand, the Minister warns that individual problems can also come in the field of the judiciary. But let's leave it, it's at your house and you'll talk. As far as Article 8 is concerned, Your Honor. See, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry seriously reminds you that this is a problem that will affect small and micro economies. In Slovenia, the problem of restructuring a small economy should start slowly. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry warns that by somehow preferring the creditor of the Republic of Slovenia to other creditors, we will not solve this problem, but we can only increase it. 99% of the economy in Slovenia is in the so-called micro-economy. This particular economy has the biggest problem with the proposal now in Article 8. Why aren't you involved when it comes to creditors, banks and everything else, with what's really going on in these banks? You as representatives of the Ministry of Finance could do a lot more. But here the profession reminds you that solutions are simply, for small and micro economies, not periods – proposed solutions – unless it is in the country's interest that there will be multiple bankruptcys on this account. And then he paid less here. If this is the goal, then please also say this out loud, but the fact is that we are all reminded that somehow it is necessary to make it possible for the Slovenian small economy to be responsible, so that such a solution, which is in this article, certainly does not bring it. That's the problem. Here is our thought, and we therefore propose that this article be deleted. As it is said, there must be a lot of good solutions to marriage, and there are good solutions in general here on the opposite side of the profession. Don't worry about what the judges think, how they're going to run these proceedings. They will be guided according to the law, so they are there, but above all what a change brings or takes away. Do not undermine what is good by applying in every way something that reminds you that it is not good. Head through the wall, head through the wall! As in fiscal law, as in this and some other. You're not doing the right thing and you're not doing the right thing, I'm telling you. You're not doing the right thing! And that's where the boomerangs come back to you. We don't have a fiscal world today, of course not. These are your solutions. Here the profession warns you, let me represent the opposition that I come from the Slovenian Democratic Party, here I read the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. But for you, obviously, given the movement of your head, it doesn't mean much. Besides, it's finally a real responsibility to you. But I hope you'll also wear up when you have to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u162	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD Group. Amendment of 24. 3. 2016 is published on e-club. Anybody want to talk? [[No one, either.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday, 29th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. Dear Members and Members, citizens and citizens! I wish you a peaceful end of the week and a pleasant celebration of Easter holidays in the circle of your loved ones. Take time for yourself and, above all, enjoy the many goodness that will be on your tables at this Easter time. Make sure there's as many sweats on them as possible and as few food as possible. The latter is enough already in the National Assembly. Let me take this opportunity to thank the Member Ivan Škodnik, who has given each of us today a Easter basket that he has made and decorated in his own hand. Have a nice weekend and see you Tuesday. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday, 29. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
