ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, Luka Mesec, Miha Kordiš, Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Peter Wilphan. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. This is a proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the operations of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union between January 2016 and June 2017. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Dr Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to further explain the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Europe may have been at a crossroads more than ever. In the midst of the economic and migration crisis, the situation in the immediate neighbourhood and the crisis of running on the old continent, there are increasing differences. In the absence of effective common solutions, the place of uncertainty, egoism and harmful populism is widening with the passiveness of countries not directly involved in the current crisis. That reminds us dangerously of some other times, times we certainly don't want. It is for this reason that the fundamental values on the basis of which European integration has emerged need to be more aware. I am primarily talking about peace, security, solidarity and a sense of fellow man. If ever, now is the time for unity to work together to find the right balance between humanity and security, saving and the social state, between peaceful policy and the demands of the international environment, to participate in crisis resolution missions. It is time for common sense and a constructive search for solutions, both at home and in Europe and throughout the world. Your Honor! In such an environment, it is, of course, difficult to plan for one year and a half in full confidence, but under the Cooperation Act between the Government and the National Assembly in European Union matters, the Government has the task of preparing guidelines for the functioning of the State in the institutions of the European Union every 18 months. We must take into account the broader framework that the European Commission's work programme and the Tria Presidency programme of the Council of the EU are linked to each time. This declaration has been the tenth in line since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. The proposal for a declaration, which has already been discussed in more detail in the home work bodies, sets out the key priorities and guidelines that Slovenia will follow in its work in the EU institutions. Allow me to briefly describe some of the key topics that will undoubtedly mark the European Union and the position of Slovenia in the next year and a half. First of all, it is imperative to highlight the most pressing topic, which is, of course, far ahead of the work of both Slovenia and the European Union, that is, the migration crisis. Slovenia has always advocated comprehensive European solutions based on the spirit of cooperation and solidarity. Even at a time when the latter had to be cut off after less popular short-term responses, we did so. We are recognised by many at international level by the principle, consistency and constructiveness of our efforts, so we are once again active in the international field. Unfortunately, everyone does not respect enough European values and commitments. Some in the public still advocate one thing, but they practice something completely different. This has to be done. Migrants must be clearly told at the beginning of the dangerous journey what they can expect at the end. In our search for solutions, we are primarily working towards common responses that strengthen the efforts of the European Union to achieve its achievements. It is high time that we immediately establish the normal functioning of the Schengen area, return to the full exercise of the control of the Schengen borders and thus remove the reasons for any extension of internal border control. This will also be my key message at the leaders' meeting next week. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that there is no possible humanitarian disaster or friction in the Balkans. That is why we have been actively working for a long time on closer cooperation between the Western Balkan countries, both at political and operational level. And in doing so, we constantly stress the necessity of aid to Greece and Macedonia, which are most at risk. Above all, it is also necessary to help those who, of course, need help. The flow of irregular migration must be halted and replaced by regular migration, so that they can be more humane. Indeed, the agreed transfers of those eligible for protection and the consistent return of those not should be initiated. In the long-term resolution of the migration crisis, the active role of Turkey is crucial. It is true that Turkey is already very burdened by the migration crisis itself, but it is also true that it can do much more in its resolution. We therefore need other, complementary or complementary solutions to address the migration crisis. It is still crucial that diplomatic efforts continue to address the causes of the migration crisis, which will also be one of the important objectives of the European Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy in the next 18 months. The end of the conflict in Syria, the military and ideological defeat of DAESH and ensuring stability and security in the Middle East and North Africa are key objectives. But, of course, that's not enough. The resolution of the migration crisis must take into account the fact that many people are leaving their homes also due to poor economic conditions, poverty, human rights violations and ever-increasing climate change. To address these challenges, much more attention should therefore be paid in the future. The fight against smugglers and illegal trafficking in human beings will take ever more effort. Slovenia has already participated in these European Union operations very early in the Mare Nostrum and Sophia operations in the Mediterranean. We will continue to work in all our activities to establish and ensure a secure global environment and to effectively address the most crisis and acute focal points. A holistic approach to the European neighbourhood, which has turned into one of the world's most unstable areas in recent years, will continue to be an important aspect of the European Union's foreign policy activities, as well as of Slovenia. In doing so, it will be essential to pay particular attention to the future of the European Union's relations with the Russian Federation, both in the context of the resolution of the Ukrainian crisis and in the context of cooperation in action in the Middle East crisis areas. The wider view of the European Union must not simply respond to changes and current threats in the world. It must be more proactive and consolidate its role as co-creator of a secure and stable international environment. We want a strong European Union common foreign and security policy that ensures partnership with other global actors and works towards promoting stability, respect for the rule of law, human rights and sustainable development in the world. We will therefore continue to participate actively in the preparation of the European Union's global strategy, which will be presented by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union to the European Council in June. In its consideration of current developments, we cannot go beyond the issue of terrorism, a series of terrorist attacks in recent months have shown the ability of terrorists to prepare, organise and implement violence against civilians in the region and also in the European Union. We can say that, in the EU, in the fight against terrorism, by adopting several important measures from words, we have moved on to very concrete actions. Among these is the new platform for combating terrorism and radicalism in the Western Balkans, which is a particularly sensitive region in Europe. The platform was created on the basis of a Slovenian initiative and we intend to continue to be very active here. Your Honor! In these very difficult times, we need a strong and undivided Europe. At the last European Council, we were able to agree on a solution to the British requirements for reform of the European Union. This is a very important signal that in difficult circumstances the Union is also able to act unitedly and find common solutions to very difficult strategic issues. The compromise agreement does not jeopardise the fundamental values and principles of the European Union, nor does it jeopardise the further development of the Economic and Monetary Union. It also takes into account Slovenia's concerns about limiting the free movement of workers and compliance with the basic Treaties of the European Union. The Slovenian interests are therefore ensured here. I believe that the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union is in the mutual interest of the whole of the Union and its citizens, so I hope that the decision at the June referendum in the United Kingdom will be in favour of confirming membership in the European Union. I also believe that Europe must look forward together, focus on everything that connects us, and not on what separates us. This is the only way to remain competitive in the global world, to develop in line with common values and to respond effectively to many challenging common challenges. To date, any crisis in the European Union has been followed by a smaller or greater qualitative leap. I am also striving to see the current challenges followed by further progress in deepening integration. There must be no doubt here, Slovenia will be part of these processes. Therefore, we will also continue to advocate further deepening the economic and monetary union as a guarantee of greater stability in the euro area. This is certainly the most effective instrument to prevent new crises in this area. Dear Members and Members! Unfortunately, the debate on the present, which we live as a country and as a member of the European Union, is dominated by topics that are urgent sometimes, even if I have a somewhat graphic expression, by fire-fighting responses, but at the same time, we are still working a little less under the headlamps actively in areas that were not long before being the main core of European integration measures. In the Government's proposal for declarations and priorities, these things are also consciously recorded and will be taken into account in our further work for sure. Let me just touch them briefly in this presentation. Among the most visible achievements of the European Union and the symbols of European integration, where much further work is needed, is a single internal market where the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital is enjoyed by more than 500 million consumers and 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises. For Slovenia as a small and open economy, functioning in this internal market is essential as our companies create almost three quarters of their exports on the markets of the Member States of the European Union, so we will continue to seek to strengthen and deepen the internal market, including digital and to facilitate cross-border operations. This certainly has a positive impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and thus on faster economic development and the creation of new jobs. External trade is one of the key tools for promoting economic growth and employment. The next year will be a turning point in this area in a number of ways, as the European Union will enter into the final phase of negotiations on some important but politically sensitive agreements. In the negotiations, we explicitly advocate both the preservation of the right to regulation in the public interest and the preservation of the level of environmental, social, labour, health and other standards of the European Union and Slovenia. In particular, we are inflexible in the areas of agriculture and safe food. We are also firmly in favour of our views on the settlement of disputes between the State and the investor. Negotiations are of great interest to the public and therefore as much information as possible is needed in the course of these negotiations. With better information and an exchange of views, we face both the economy and civil society. Of course, the State Assembly is also informed of the state of negotiations. Slovenia is a country that lies at the crossroads of important transport links. The port of Koper has an unequivocal role not only for Slovenia but also for Europe as a whole, in particular for Central European countries. The railway connection between Koper–Divič is of paramount importance in this respect, due to the integration of the Slovenian and European economies with overseas countries mainly with Asia. That is why we want funding for the construction of the second track also to be provided through the European Fund for Strategic Investments of the so-called Juncker Plan. Slovenia also has a strong link with the Western Balkans and wants to strengthen the 10th Pan-European Corridor, so we have taken the initiative to establish an Alpine-West Balkan Corridor with the co-signatures Austria, Croatia, Serbia and Bulgaria. The solid and European energy union in relation to climate policy is not only in the interest of the European Union if I now touch on this issue. Slovenian consumers are certainly in favour of being able to choose the most cost-effective energy suppliers due to open competition. Even better, it will be ensured that gas supply is secure so that we are not at risk of being exposed to individual European market suppliers. We need to be aware that the cheapest energy is the one we don't consume. It is therefore essential to promote energy efficiency and, of course, to switch to renewable energy sources. In the field of climate change, the adoption of the Paris Agreement is a major step forward. High political ambition must be maintained and appropriate time and content activities must be ensured to preserve the European Union's leading role in this area. There are therefore two important tasks before the Union and Slovenia in the next period. In the United Nations, Member States and the European Union will sign the Paris Agreement in April this year, which will then need to be ratified as soon as possible, while at the same time the European Union will start looking for internal measures to achieve 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. It is important for Slovenia that the Paris Agreement enters into force as soon as possible and that the European Union adopts such measures as will also take into account our specific transport needs. For the European Union and the Member States, an important process of transition to a circular economy is also starting, which will allow new business opportunities and jobs, taking into account the sustainable use of resources. Slovenia took an important step by adopting the Framework Programme for the Transition to the Green Economy adopted by the Government last October. We support the European Union's single political orientation towards the circular economy and sufficient flexibility in defining individual rules for its implementation at national level. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to conclude by thinking about what we must be aware of by all political actors and all branches of government, both within our national borders and within our wider community, of course, which we are talking about today. The citizens' trust in the European project or in state institutions will not be established and guaranteed by the populism of some virtual democracy on the street that rejects all others and others. This trust can only be assured by deliberate measures that will effectively offer an effective response to the concerns and uncertainties of citizens and help them to understand the positive meaning of our constitutional and European values and our common vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u3	The proposal for a declaration was addressed as the committee responsible by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee for the Affairs of the European Union has also defined the United Left to the attached amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor first to Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. President of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on European Union Affairs is held at its 72nd session, on the 18th session. 2. 2016 as the competent committee considered the proposal for a declaration. Members of mags tabled the amendments to the proposal for a declaration within a set time limit. Lilliana Kozlovich, Benedict Kopmeyer, mag. Bojana Muršič in the section Environment, in the section Circular Economy and in the section Agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition, in the subsection Agriculture adopted by the Committee and others. Franc Trček to the introductory part of the declaration to Chapter EU Common Trade Policy, to Chapter Environment, to Sub-chapter Air Quality and Nuclear Security and to Sub-chapter External Affairs and Defence, to Sub-chapter of the Common Trade Policy, which the Committee has not adopted. The Committee, however, adopted its own amendments to the initial part of the declaration to the chapter of the EU Common Trade Policy, to the section of the Environment, to the sub-chapter Air Quality and Nuclear Safety. A further explanation of the proposal for a declaration was given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the meeting of the Committee, the Government also identified itself to the proposed amendments. Before the discussion, the rapporteurs of the home work bodies presented the opinion of those bodies up to the proposal for a declaration. On behalf of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs, the Vice-President of this Commission also presented its opinion. The working bodies of the National Assembly and the Commission of the Council of State support the proposal for a declaration. Otherwise, the Committee has received reports from all the working bodies of the National Assembly, which have dealt with and supported the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of their competence. Following the debate and the vote on the amendments, the European Union Affairs Committee voted on all parts of the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of the Committee's competence; 9 votes in favour and 1 against. The Committee on European Union Affairs then held its 74th meeting. 2. 2016 as the competent committee also identified the amendment tabled by the United Left Group of 23. 2. 2016 to the supplementary proposal for a declaration, namely the introductory part of the declaration to the chapter of the EU Common Trade Policy. On behalf of the proposer, Dr. Franz Ducky. The representative of the Government stressed that the Government does not support the amendment, the amendment is not necessary, as its content is largely covered in the priorities of the declaration. Following the discussion, the Committee decided by vote not to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u5	In order to present the report of the Committee, I also give the floor to the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 41st meeting, on 18 February 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee considered as a competent committee the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period from January 2016 to June 2017 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 24 December last year. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, State Secretary Mrs Darja Bavdaž Kuret, Ministry of Defence and other representatives of the Government participated in the meeting of the Committee. The amendment to the proposal for a declaration was tabled by the Member of the Commission. Franc Trček, United Left Group. Further explanation of the proposal for a declaration was given by Darja Bavdaž Kuret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In accordance with Article 5 of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union matters, the Government reported at least once a year to the State Assembly on the situation in the Union and the situation of Slovenia in it. The National Assembly shall then adopt a position on the political guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the next 18 months. She pointed out that the proposal for a declaration prepared by the Government for the past decade in a row contributes to the transparent and targeted functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union and presents the dossiers to be considered on the bodies of the European Union in the future and sets out the guidelines to be advocated by the Slovenian representatives. The Declaration provides a framework for the preparation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Government represents in its daily work in the institutions of the European Union. The debate raised the issue of the legal basis. There is a need for a change of law, some have thought, which governs the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. In doing so, the Chairman of the Committee pointed out that the necessary amendments could already be included in the consideration of the amendment of the law in the first half of 2015. The inadequate timetable has been problematic, i.e. the timing of the consideration of the proposal for a declaration, as some opposition Members believe that the proposal for a declaration has been submitted too late since the second month of the year, and the National Assembly is only now accepting a declaration for 2016. The proposal for a declaration, also in the opinion of the opposition Members, does not address the current issues of the Union, does not reflect the priorities of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the positions and priorities are too specific. Following the discussion, the Government identified a proposal for an amendment by a qualified proposer, Dr. Franz Trček. The amendment was not adopted in the vote. At the end of 9 votes in favour and without a vote, the Committee adopted the following opinion: "In the light of its competence, the Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period from January 2016 to June 2017 and adopted it in the text submitted." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u8	Once again a very nice greeting and thank you for saying so, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! On 10 July last year, the National Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats We are pleased that in this declaration we have written, of course, on the basis of the plebiscite decision of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to join the European Union, that the European Union is our fundamental, fundamental political and valuable framework. That is why we Christian Democrats have always spoken, and this is how we have acted as a pro-European party. We are not Euro-Pianists because we simply do not see any other alternatives than the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union. We are therefore very careful about the views of the Republic of Slovenia in the various forums in the various institutions of the European Union. We are, of course, aware of the importance of the European Council. What role does the European Council play? The European Council shall set out the general policy orientation and priorities of the European Union. We know who's making it. It consists of Heads of State and Government of the European Union, President of the European Commission, High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The current President is Donald Tusk, who made a very important statement to us at yesterday's visit to Greece, and we also see here that the European Council and its President have actually been articulating some very clear guidelines concerning the current biggest problem that we are all dealing with within the EU and also Slovenia alone. Allow me to quote President Tusk at yesterday's visit to Greece: "I want to invite all potential illegal economic migrants from where you are from, do not come to Europe, do not believe smugglers!" This seems very important to us: "Do not believe smugglers, do not risk your lives and your money, everything is in vain!" End of quote. And when I have stopped with the mission of the European Council in which our President of the Government, Miro Cerar, sits and the Republic of Slovenia, it seems to me that, colleagues and colleagues, a reasonable reflection, also in accordance with the adopted Declaration on Foreign Policy, that before each European Council, Mr President of the Government will come before this High Council or at least before a competent body, this is the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, and present the starting points of the Republic of Slovenia which he will defend there. In fact, at a symbolic level, we would also raise the importance of the Republic of Slovenia and its positions in the institutions of the European Union. And this is exactly the point of the agenda of the National Assembly. Of course, it would also be good for the President of the Government, after returning from the European Council, to come before this assembly or before a competent working body before the European Union Committee on Affairs, and to report on what they have discussed in the European Council. This may also be a closed session, which does not bother us, but it is even better that it is open, and ultimately the functioning of the institutions of the European Union is public. This is what we think, and we call for this reflection, and we want the government to think about it. Members of New Slovenia will support these guidelines, this declaration. It is virtually impossible to oppose this, but we agree with some who have also considered on the Committee on Foreign Policy and on the Committee on European Union Affairs that some structure or at least the time frame of this declaration should be changed. This declaration covers our guidelines for the next 18 months. At that time, the Council of the European Union will be chaired by three countries. The Netherlands now holds the presidency, which has already presented its priorities to us, the first is to remind us of a comprehensive approach to migration and international security, the second priority being the European Union, innovator and job creator, and so on. Well, Slovakia is the next country to preside over the Council of the European Union in the second half of this year. In fact, we do not yet know exactly what its priority is; it will certainly be very high among the priorities, if not again at the highest level, also the refugee and migrant crisis. As a third in this 18-month time interval, Malta will be chaired by the Council of the European Union. What the European Union will be like, what will touch all of us in the first half of next year, in fact, no one can predict today. I'm closing with one more thought. In some ways, it seems logical that even the Netherlands, President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, has virtually paid no attention to the enlargement of the European Union. Yes, in a way we understand this, today we have significantly bigger problems, but the enlargement of the European Union is, in the view of New Slovenia, the most powerful political tool of the European Union. And we want this enlargement process to remain at least at working temperature, if I may say so. And in this sense, we also expect our representatives, representatives of the government in the institutions of the European Union, to strive to keep this enlargement process at working temperature, because we know the instability of the Balkans and it would be very good to encourage some Balkan countries to make European reforms, reforms that will lead to Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u9	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, today, at the beginning of 2016, the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period January 2016-June 2017 can be particularly important both from a national perspective and because of the integrity of the functioning of European institutions, although it is only some framework for the successful integration of various Slovenian entities into the functioning of European institutions. It is essential that, after the adoption of the declaration of Slovenia, it is also possible to realize the intentions and commitments set out in the declaration. This may sound rhetorical, but let us ask ourselves to what extent the commitments and guidelines we adopted last year have been realized before the good year of adoption of the declaration. Above all, it is important to what extent the activity of our institutions has been established in the spirit of the declaration in the common institutions of the European Union. We probably do not have an accurate answer, but we can only assume that some of the tasks envisaged remain unfulfilled, but in my opinion the overall assessment for Slovenia is positive. Given the current challenges of the refugee migration crisis, it is understandable and necessary that the current declaration devotes much attention to this content. In this regard, our view is that Slovenia has clear messages that are at the same time sensitive to the refugee problem and clear to the protection of European values, including the consistent functioning of the Schengen system. I will focus in particular on national and national issues in the context of the text. The minority problem or issue of indigenous national communities falls within the competence of each member, and therefore there is little or no particular emphasis on this issue at EU level. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we believe that we should aim to make the basic requirements for the existence and development of the national community an important element of the operational functioning of the most important European institutions. While this initiative does not appear to be in the context of today's debate when we are talking about the mission of Slovenian entities to EU institutions, in fact, it can only be done with our recommendations in Brussels, Strasbourg and where we can accelerate this process to the point where it can be discussed honestly. Unfortunately, there has been no great readiness by the EU leadership in the past or by the leadership of the most influential countries. However, we believe that further Slovenian initiatives could also be important because of Slovenia's accession to this issue. The basic starting points set out in the first part of the declaration are more important today, as Mr President of the Government has already mentioned, than ever before. If we fail to maintain the EU in at least the form we have established over the past decades, they will be lost at all levels. Any negative changes, such as the Schengen regime, would particularly be felt by national communities and by many smaller nations, especially in our Central European and Eastern European spaces. The openness of the borders is a great achievement that generations have dreamed of in the previous historically turbulent century. For the values achieved, such as the rule of law, the security of citizens and property, financial stability, and so on, not to mention, we need to take particular action, and we therefore support the efforts made by Slovenia in particular to highlight and defend Slovenia in its activities. As I have already mentioned, in the declaration of content related to the so-called minority national communities, we hardly see what we are missing in our parliamentary group. There is talk of cultural and linguistic diversity, which is right. Although, in a given context, the focus is on diversity from the point of view of individual countries. Nevertheless, we have not decided on amendments because the text of the declaration is slightly more general in view of the specific circumstances mentioned than the previous ones. However, we cautioned - and this was particularly emphasized by the Commission's meeting for the National Communities of the National Assembly - that such an approach should not become a rule. We also point to the particular urgency of the term autonomy, which, unfortunately, has been questionable in the past for some members of the European Union and also in the field of expertise. We are convinced that such groups of national communities are part of the true European values, which are often important interconnections between neighbouring nations today and beyond. This applies to the communities that live in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as to Slovenians in place and also to other minorities, of course, in the European Area. I would like to point out that indigenousness or indigenousness does not mean any higher form in the classification of different nationalities or national communities or social groups, but merely a distinctive form, which differs in character and character from other forms of social groups such as economic migration, refugee groups and so on. All of these groups need different forms of treatment in terms of conservation and development or possible assistance. Autochthonousness is therefore no longer or less compared to other social groups, but it is one species and very characteristic of our geographical space. Also in communication with the most influential European institutions, we need to pay important and influential attention to this. I believe that autonomy is important not only from the point of view of minority national communities but also more and more for a number of smaller nations, so our initiative needs to be understood in a broader context than a European specificity or value. Finally, I should like to point out that in our Group we welcome the part of the declaration that highlights the importance of cultural heritage, because this is very important from the point of view of European extradition as well as from the national and local contexts. We also welcome Slovenia's takeover in this regard, but next year let it be dedicated to cultural heritage. A little outside the context of this, however, we must honestly admit that we have halved, unfortunately, the funds ourselves for cultural heritage over the past years, but we are now talking in general about this issue. Finally, let me say that we will support the proposed text of the declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for which Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! Today we are already considering the 10th proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in a number of ways. Why is this document so important? Actually, for two reasons. On the one hand, because through it the Republic of Slovenia can and is also expected to set and highlight its political priorities within itself, i.e. its own national interests. On the other hand, it also builds and strengthens a single European action, i.e. the functioning of the European Union. In this sense, this declaration is primarily a document which could be referred to as a document through which the interests of the Republic of Slovenia are placed in the European environment. Before I focus a little more on today's consideration of the document, I would like to say one more thing. It is very important to be aware of the circumstances and the challenges and assessments of the current situation in which such documents arise. The European Union is currently facing an extremely big challenge. In the face of such a major challenge, this is linked to the fundamental issue of its future existence. Why? Because in several very important and central areas of its operation, it has fallen to the exam. This drop in the exam began years ago and is still being remedied in the context of financial and monetary economic activity. As a result, the development of the economic market, one of the main pillars and reasons for the establishment of the European Union, has also been very limited. What's going on now? The European Union is facing a crisis related to the fear of terrorism on the one hand and on the other with a fundamental value crisis, because it cannot find and is unable to find and find uniform solutions to address migration issues in this humanitarian context, i.e. in one of the fundamental aspects of its operation and its establishment. These are aspects related to values, to civilizational development. Here too is the European Union for testing. In connection with all of this, the Republic of Slovenia is also one of its Member States, whether wanted or not, indirectly and directly to the test. Therefore, this declaration is an extremely important and responsible document in the current situation, also from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a question of how, through our own national interests and political priorities, we also communicate, we refer to the European Union with, I believe, a single and identical objective, further development, further consolidation of the European Union as a key political creation or link in this European space. We have already heard something about the interests themselves, political orientations and priorities in the declaration itself from the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia today. What is crucial now is that, in fact, the political orientations of Slovenia are very similar to those fundamental content and to the substantive orientations that the European Union also identifies in the context of its action, which in some ways reflects that we are well balanced, if we say so, with a single European policy and a vision of future development as a small but obviously very integrated and important Member State in this community. On the one hand, a large set and a wide range of these fundamental economic challenges and priorities, a solid economic monetary union, an EU development-oriented budget, including our national, of course, investment momentum, a solid energy union, advocacy and aspiration for the knowledge of the principles and implementation of the single market, transport policy, agriculture, the European Union's common trade policy, strengthening the European Union as an internationally important credible global actor. On the other hand, the awareness of the possibilities for the re-examination of the Member States to the point of departure, which we are now meeting in particular in the event of an agreement with the United Kingdom within the framework of the European Union. This agreement, which is being formulated, responds to the fact that the European Union is becoming itself often for its own purpose. Not only is it not able to address the current areas, the problems that should be addressed, including the institutions that it has set up for this purpose, do not work successfully, do not work effectively. This is reflected again in the second key set not only of our declaration, but of the whole of Europe's orientations at this moment – the targeting of migration policy, the fight against terrorism, and above all, the question or questioning of Europe's fundamental values today and in the future. Our proposal for a declaration seeks a consolidated functioning and a strong and strong European Union. This takes into account the special role, the special situation of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia is through the content of this declaration, through what it reports, a strong, solid, very committed Member State of the European Union, but one which is also extremely wounded in this European Union because of all the current circumstances. That is why he needs and calls for help, for unity, for some kind of cooperation with this institution. We are the smallest country on the external Schengen border, we are a very important regional actor within the European Union, especially in the Western Balkans area, that is, in that part also a territory to which the European Union itself should spread in the future if it persists and if this proves to be of interest. And through all this, we report that we want to continue to remain a constructive Member State, which will, and which respects the rule of law of the European Union, advocates the development of the fundamental policies of the European Union, and, above all, to strengthen its values, values for which, when we join the European Union, we believe that our values are, too. The values of solidarity that contribute and contribute to stability, security and thus to the economic and social strength of the European Union and our countries. A stable, secure, united and economically successful European Union is also a fundamental framework for the development of our country. For this reason, Slovenia must remain at the centre of European integration in our opinion, but this European integration must also be seen. At today's meeting, we would like to see a broad political consensus reached by the Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period January 2016-June 2017. To that end, we guarantee that the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will also contribute its votes. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u13	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u14	Dear Members, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers! The Declaration of Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in matters of the European Union, which defines the work plan for the next 18 months, is a very important document, one of the key documents for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the country involved in European integration. At least that is what the legislator felt in 2004 when he prepared this legal basis for our future membership in the European Union. Article 5 of this Act, which provides for a declaration to the National Assembly and, of course, to the electorate and to the electorate, is also addressed. There are not many documents to be presented here in the National Assembly by the President of the Government. But this declaration that we have before us today is not a declaration that foresees our activities or activities of Slovenia and its bodies in the EU institutions for the next 18 months, but for the next 15 months. Once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is late to prepare a key document to define our activities and activities in the institutions of the European Union. You missed six months last year. You're three months late this year. How can an individual be convinced that this is indeed a key document, as the legislator of the year 2004 predicted, and if the Government is late to prepare this document? In this document, which consists of two parts, the Slovenian and horizontal review of legislation at European Union level also does not know the spirit of the importance of this document. Indeed, a number of concrete cases that can be presented below testify to the fact that this declaration does not reflect the weight of the document that the legislator has placed in the cradle of cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. See, this document states that the Schengen area is a fundamental acquisition and the right of citizens of the European Union and that its existence is crucial to the functioning of the European Union. But remember a bad month ago when the ministers said that the domino effect meant the beginning of the end of the Schengen area. Well, the representatives of the Government may plead that this declaration has not been adopted at the time and should have been. Clearly, then, government representatives do not adhere to the spirit that this declaration should occupy or concern. And then, let's say, as far as strengthening the Union is concerned, a credible global actor. I quote what is said in this declaration: "The current issues of today will remain relevant in the next 18 months, since the war in Syria, the threat of DAESH, the spread of extreme Islamism in Iraq and Syria, the situation in the east of Ukraine" and so on and so on. In other words, although this is a basic document, the government is already informing us that after 18 months everything will be as it is today. For this message, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need a special document, nor do we need a ministerial assembly to come before the Members and, of course, the electorate and the electorate. What Slovenia needs in these extremely critical moments is a clear mandate for all representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also the National Assembly to act in our relations with the institutions of the European Union. Therefore, it is also necessary to adapt our conduct, adapt and amend, amend the basic law that speaks about it, and come before the National Assembly with a document that actually offers answers to the questions raised. While we were chairing, and before we chaired, those of you who participated in this project are well aware, we have coordinated with two co-chair countries, but we have managed to prepare a programme in time, that is, before the start of the Presidency and before the start of the Tria Presidency, which contained crucial, important tasks for the next 18 months. Why did the Government not copy this good practice into this declaration as well? Why the declaration did not adapt to the real situation and highlight those key topics that are currently being exposed and which have already been properly highlighted by my predecessors. This declaration does not give these answers. As long as the National Assembly confirms without any serious discussion documents that do not offer answers, documents that do not offer answers will be squandered in the National Assembly. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this declaration. In this debate, he also calls on the Government to prepare a reform of the normative basis and to harmonise the preparation of this document with the content that this document must bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the Government and the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal of the Declaration on the Guidance and Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period January 2016 until July 2017. By adopting the declaration, we wish to contribute to the targeted functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in European matters. The Declaration provides a broader framework for the preparation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Government in the institutions of the European Union, and presents the dossiers to be considered in the bodies of the European Union in the coming period. As a retirement group, we must point out that, at the initiative of our representative, a number of discussions are taking place on improving the situation of older people in society and managing demographic change. All we can do is wish for more of this to be at home. Demographic change and the constant need to update knowledge require investment in lifelong learning, in education systems that adapt to the challenges of modern times. In the Desus Group, it seems important to us that the proposal for a declaration highlights the importance of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. However, it appears that the European Union wants to break the unfair practices of the European tax havens by seeking greater transparency in taxation between Member States. We also support Slovenia's efforts to use the European Fund for Strategic Investments funds, in particular for strategic key projects such as the second track of Koper-Divača and the thermal power plant chain on Sava. We advocate the transparency of developments in trade agreements and the protection of acquired social and labour rights. With regard to the resolution of disputes between the State and the institutions, we will closely monitor in the Desus Group whether and to what extent a single dispute resolution mechanism, so-called ISDS, will emerge again. Otherwise, we believe that such agreements are subject to mixed competence and must also be ratified in the parliaments of the Member States. Your Honor! The events of the last year indicate the need for closer and more effective participation of all members and a commitment to finding common solutions. We are faced with a number of challenges more than ever in today's period. The main challenge is the resolution of the migration crisis, where the European Union is still being hunted. We believe that it is high time for the members of the European Union to give careful thought to the causes of the outbreak and spread of wars that create the migration crisis. It is increasingly evident that some global players are part of the problem of deliberate geopolitical movements. How and why did the beginning of the so - called Arab spring become one of the most bloody conflicts of the new millennium? Why does a communication from the Stockholm Institute for Peace Research find that arms trade has been growing in recent years? These are all questions that the European Union must urgently answer and contribute to solutions. In order to improve the functioning of the European Union, Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a declaration. We are convinced that it can also be a good compass for the functioning of our country in the institutions of the European Union in the following year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u18	Respectable both presidents, ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The Declaration defines the key tasks and guidelines that the Republic of Slovenia will follow in its operation in the institutions of the European Union. The document provides guidance in specific areas and is a broader framework for drawing up the views of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Government represents in its daily work in the institutions of the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia must strengthen its position in the European space and actively defend and enforce its views in key areas. Over the last few years, the European Union has been facing great trials. After the severe economic crisis that has shaken the European economy, it is possible to imagine that the greatest trials of Europe and the rest of the world are just ahead. We need to find ways to strengthen Europe to cope with the increasing challenges of modern times. We must be aware that we can solve these trials and only manage them together at European level with European solutions. Europe has been dealing too much with the consequences of the migrant crisis, rather than solving them at their source and addressing the causes. Even Europe seems to be still being hunted and searched for its own identity, so it is all the more important for Europe to draw up guidelines for a new migrant policy. Member States' behaviour must be primarily solidarity and focus on respect for the current legal order, the commitments already made and the protection of the external Schengen borders. Rapid action and effective cooperation with Member States and rapid action, in particular with partner third countries, are needed. Only in this way can we successfully manage the movement of people and address the root causes of migration pressures. The reconstruction of the asylum system, which will fairly divide the responsibility of the countries, is essential and will preserve solidarity. We need to set common European rules for asylum seekers to determine who is entitled to asylum in the countries of the European Union and to introduce clear rules on the separation of refugees and other migrants. At the same time, efforts must be made to strengthen the common foreign security policy aimed at halting violence and poverty in the restless parts of the world, and to increase the activity of the European Union's high foreign political representative. Only in this way can Europe successfully tackle the dimension of the migrant crisis and may even improve the impact of the response. The importance of economic growth and employment is particularly stressed by the Social Democrats. It is necessary to ensure a stable environment in which Slovenian and European companies will operate better in the future. We support the establishment of a Capital Markets Union where different levels of development, the size of capital markets in the Member States, are to be taken into account, which is to contribute to diversity and better supply of funding for businesses. The key objective must be to create and maintain quality jobs, so we must accelerate economic recovery, increase the competitiveness and innovation of our economy and smartly ensure the realization of the development potentials of both Slovenia and the European Union. It is essential to increase the employment opportunities of young people. This is important; young people need more support in the European space. We strongly welcome the adoption of all programmes and strategies aimed at improving the situation of young people. We will closely monitor, at both national and European level, the discussions on the adoption of free trade agreements, and in doing so we will oppose all solutions that would in any way undermine the social and economic situation of our citizens. As far as European funds are concerned, Slovenia is relatively successful. It should be noted that the administrative framework for drawing on European funds needs to be simplified as much as possible. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which was the most successful in drawing on European funds in the previous financial perspective, must be highlighted here. With the available 404 million, the Ministry has drained a good 402 million. The Ministry of Agriculture has also been very successful in drawing. Our farmers have successfully taken advantage of the possibility of applying for invitations to tender. Particular emphasis should be placed on the highest possible degree of self-sustainment and production of quality safe and price-competitive food. Data on agricultural production in Slovenia are positive, production increased from 4% to 6% last year and production value due to a drop in agricultural prices by about a percentage. It is important to promote the quality of Slovenian food against genetically modified organisms, raise consumers' awareness of healthy food and priority procurement of locally produced food. Emphasis should also be given to reducing food discards and releasing administrative burdens for farmers. We support the Strategic Framework for the Energy Union, which establishes a transition to a low-carbon, reliable and competitive economy. We must not take our planet for granted. The impacts of climate change are increasing. More frequent temperature fluctuations, floods, droughts and other weather extremes have been expected in the future, which have started to appear more frequently and intensively in the last decade and have caused enormous damage. We are still delaying measures and risking further changes, although we do not know how ecosystems and thus agriculture and people will react. The long-term global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions must be a priority for the European Union. We think that the guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in European institutions are good, we must be aware of our belongings to Europe, and Slovenia is Europe. However, it is crucial that Slovenia in the European area, with innovation, dialogue and current themes, exercises its national interests as much as possible, while contributing to the thorough strengthening of the European Union. Social Democrats will be supported by the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union for the period January 2016-June 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u20	Honourable President, Honourable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union begins with a sentence, quote, “The European Union has been facing challenges in recent years, which are probably the most difficult test for the strength of the link so far.” The document then summarises the reasons for this situation: the rise of migration or the refugee crisis, terrorist attacks, the potential exit of Great Britain to brexit and the past crisis in the euro area. The starting point, of course, is precisely, the larger the crisis of European integration is deeper than we imagine. However, for reasons, the text mixes with causes and consequences. The refugee crisis has not just happened, but is closely linked to the external and military policies of the European Union or the Member States. It is equally problematic to respond to it. The answer came from the centre of the European Union against the periphery. Setting up fences, barbed wires, police repression, an army with excessive powers, this is a policy which, in different shades, is dictated and implemented by the European Union. As a result, fear, mistrust, and racism spread by the right hand, or extreme right, rise. In the event of a crisis in the euro area, it is already clear that the declaration marks it as the past. Economic recovery in recent years has been modest and fragmented, and 1.7% of growth is forecast this year and represents half of the long-term trend, with huge human and social casualties. The only strategy to address the crisis remains, unfortunately, the tightening of belts. So the crisis didn't go away, but it's just waiting for a new episode. It is not surprising that one of the UK's demands is that it never adopts the euro. This common currency is to a large extent the basis for the crisis, because it is totally inappropriate, stolen by measure of capital and actually from within the European Union. Britain also wants more political sovereignty because the institutions of the European Union are undemocratic, even anti-democratic, as European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker put it: "There can be no democratic decision against European agreements." End of quote. This is the situation of the European Union. It is not surprising that the far right is being strengthened in many ways. It is no longer a threat to the standard of living of working people, which has been severely decimated in recent years by austerity measures and unemployment, and the fundamental values of enlightenment and humanism are also at risk. And what is the answer to this is the Declaration on the Directions of Slovenia in the European Union. If we had to sum it up in one sentence, we could say, even more of the same, it's like continuing the old one. Slovenia's previous operation at European Union level has been servile and subjective. Slovenia was pursuing the dominant interests, namely the interests of Germany or German capital. There are many examples of how the government can be more papal than the pope. To mention just a few of the most receptive: recapitalisation of the banking sector, cutting subordinate bonds, recovery of state aid, a barbed wire with razors at the border and so on. These are all examples which attach to the text of the declaration. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore often opposed to national interests and even more often against the interests of workers in this country. The case that Slovenia is pursuing German interests is the attitude towards the European monetary union, which we can read about in the declaration. Well, what is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia up to? First of all, a strong euro. This is the euro rate corresponding to the German economy and in countries such as Slovenia, it promotes imports and barriers to exports to third markets because, given our development, the euro is overestimated. Secondly, fiscal union, because of the euro, it is not possible to mitigate differences with exchange rate policy and because of fiscal union we must not mitigate economic cycles by temporarily increasing deficits. However, there is no conditions nor will there ever be political will for a real transfer union. The public debt of the euro countries could threaten the value of the euro and its status as a global currency. And the third time, the banking union. The single mechanisms for bank resolution and deposit are not German services to countries such as Slovenia, but ensure that monetary and fiscal policies are implemented in the German interest. So, this is our main reading of the declaration. However, at least two more points should be added. In larger places it is very general and does not say much about actual orientations, it is rhetoric within the predominant neoliberal framework, or it proposes very superficial measures, preferably at market level. It doesn't solve real problems. At the same time, in the type of text, such as a declaration, you also need to read what is missing. The blanks. Thus, there is no reference to economic democracy, various forms and mechanisms of labour management in the declaration, even though the Government of Mira Cerar often mentioned this area. The coalition recognised on the committees that it is important to make it clear, in black and white, that the secret trade and investment agreements of TTIP, CETA and TISA are covered by mixed powers agreements and will advocate ratification in national parliaments. We must be aware that all these agreements are extremely important documents that will have wide implications for our society. They will have a major impact on social, labour, environmental and food standards, in the form of legislation itself, on the relations between corporations and individual countries, and especially its people. From this point of view, it is very important that we commit ourselves to clearer guidance on TTIP and CETE. We have always been critical in the United Left until the direction of the Government of Mir Cerar and his attitude towards the European Union, so the declarations, which continue and prolong the current desperate situation, will not be supported. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word to prepare for Mr. Joseph Horvat and Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Surely one of the key elements of this declaration is the secret trade investment agreements such as TTIP, CETA and TISA. Now, on the one hand, it is amazing how, in fact, political representatives of virtually all colors in the vast majority, of course, with honorable exceptions, agree on the way in which negotiations are conducted as we see them. That is to say, to the complete undemocraticity and not least to the logic of this agreement itself. These will be agreements that are expected to have a key impact on the future of people on both sides of the Atlantic for decades. The text of the CETA Agreement was published days ago in legally purified form and we can conclude that TTIP will be even more ambitious or even more aggressive. A recent study or study carried out by the Faculty of Economics was carried out on CETA, an institution which, of course, is clearly and highly favoured by such free trade. The result of this analysis was clear, the study shows the negligible economic effects of CETA on Slovenia. But how careless are they? Of course, this is a study on the effects on economic growth. So what these agreements bring is that there will in fact be no positive consequences for economic growth. There won't be any. A detailed study has also been published on the TTIP agreement and the result is the same, it says, once again no benefit if we are talking about economic growth. However, it is probably clear to all of us that we know enough about these agreements and what negative consequences they will have: change or reduction of things such as labour, social, rights, food standards, environmental standards, consumer rights and so on. In short, on the one hand, negligible or almost no economic effects; on the other hand, in some ways devastating effects on the social status of citizens and citizens of the European Union. At the same time, these agreements bring about an incredible transfer of sovereignty, a significant loss of the powers of national parliaments and a so-called legislative cooperation and a stalemate. Finally, the Courts of Arbitration, the ISDS, or the new ICS, were also appointed here, which would in fact constitute some sort of international capital tribunal. For all these reasons, too, we have once again tabled an amendment in the United Left to further tighten the process of adopting these agreements and the negotiations themselves. If I focus on this, we propose meeting three objectives or three points. The first is that Slovenia clearly commits itself to greater transparency in the negotiations and democratic inclusion of civil society, organisations, trade unions and the public in general. Another key requirement that Slovenia should have is to prepare a clear explanation and, of course, also studies that are linked not only to the economic aspect but also to the standards that I have previously listed, in short, that citizens and citizens will be informed of what these agreements actually bring to their lives. Finally, given that we know that it is in some way a transfer of sovereignty, it is essential that the ratification of these secret agreements be adopted in the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority, which is also, of course, in accordance with the Constitution. It is clear that much greater transparency of these negotiations is necessary. Despite initiatives by civil society and trade unions, this situation has not improved significantly so far. In short, we are witnessing very succinct official information, but at the same time there are also extremely restrictive mechanisms for accessing documents, including Members of the European Parliament, that we are not talking about how we members of the National Assembly are very cheaply informed. We have taken some initiatives in the United Left, something small can be informed mainly from better quality media, and this is it. We are talking about agreements that actually decide the future of all individual Member States. More than three million citizens and citizens of the European Union have expressed their thoughts and opposition not only to such a means of acceptance but also to agreements themselves. However, despite these clear responses and even in some way the criticisms of the European public continue in an old way, without any acceptance of these criticisms. Slovenia should be committed to this by opening negotiations at both national and European levels and by involving both the public concerned and, of course, the professional public. Once again, I stress that these are agreements that will have a very strong impact and potentially harmful impact on society as a whole. The Republic of Slovenia should also have a clear position to insist on ratifying such agreements, in short, it is one of the mechanisms to increase the transparency of these negotiations and, of course, also to prevent enforcement policies. The situation where national parliaments could only adopt or reject a pre-adopted text without actually being able to influence its content is in some way unacceptable in terms of democratic decision-making. I also stress once again the importance of the two-thirds majority in the adoption of such agreements. It is undeniable, of course, according to the available information contained in the secret agreements, the transfer of sovereignty, I stress this once again, it is regulatory cooperation, it is an arbitral judicial mechanism or a version of it, which takes over the political sovereignty of each Member State. This is an international treaty, these treaties are clearly defined in Article 3 of the Constitution and therefore a comprehensive analysis must be carried out in advance. The only study that has so far examined the implications for the Slovenian economy, not the whole economy of the European Union, has shown that the effects of removing trade barriers under the line will in some way be negative, in particular in the field of some key industries such as the pharmaceutical industry, and has not assessed any consequences of the introduction of an arbitration mechanism to resolve disputes between the investor and the state. In short, it is a serious issue; it is a matter of agreements that seriously endanger such an economy and, above all, the social status of citizens and citizens, so that such agreements should be given full caution when they are adopted. And there's been a lot of speculation lately, the contents of these agreements have been kept secret to the public all the time, now the slight movements are happening, but that's still not enough. In the United Left, we continue to insist that these agreements should be part of a public debate, not only in Parliament, but in the general public, because it is the future of all of us and in such a situation the country, as such, should take responsibility to protect the benefits and rights of its citizens and citizens. This will only be possible if these negotiations start transparently if parliaments, both national and European, have an impact on the content of these agreements, and this can only be achieved by writing this in a document, such as the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union. At this point, I wanted to highlight this issue, of course, the declaration as such has many other shortcomings, a large part of which Violet has already highlighted in the Group's position. This is how we cannot go about some appropriate policy, not European or external, if I say so. In short, with such orientations, we should have in mind the interests of citizens and citizens, and we can do so only with an engaged and strong policy which will have the interests of the state of Slovenia in the first place and only then what is the interests of international capital and European institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u23	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are among those who say, "We need more Europe at this moment!" With more Europe, we think that we need more to apply the values of the European Union, which have created the European Union at all; of course, we are referring here to the values that have been set up as the foundation of the European Union by the fathers of Europe. Perhaps for a start, Mr President, if I may, I would suggest that the Government allow a copy of the book entitled "To Europe", by Robert Schuman. This book is virtually nowhere to be found today, of course, the National Assembly has no money for this replication, the government could find it. And I think that this book would somehow also reduce the Euroscepticism, which is always there, maybe this moment is growing again. I would like to move forward with the priority of the first 6 months, i.e. the priority of the Dutch Presidency. As it is said, the first priority of the Dutch Presidency is a comprehensive approach to migration and international security. Here again we are talking about values, security as a very important European, read, Slovenian value. And second priority, Europe as an innovator, Europe as a job creator. If anything, that's exactly what we need in Europe. If anything, that's what we need in Slovenia. And here I agree with my colleague, Mrs Marinko Levičar, who said that our representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions are discussing well the issues relating to the care of the elderly, and then the colleague adds that she wants to do so at home. I'll sign this wish twice, that statement. We want more of this here at home. That is, more concern, government measures for the welfare of citizens and citizens. Here, as I said at today's meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I see the European Union institutions, for example, the European Commission, as our partner, our partner. That is why, today, I have also referred our guests to the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union as partners. We can't look at them like this, yes, but Brussels is out there somewhere, but Brussels is even worse now than Belgrade, because, look, with Prekmurje's optics Ljubljana also symbolizes the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also often unfriendly, but it is not a topic now. The theme is how Slovenia, within the European Union institution, can maximize the potential offered by the European Union. We have done a lot in this 11-year-old membership of the European Union. The use of cohesion funds in the previous financial perspective was successful, and days ago I was among the first Mrs Alenka Smercolj, the minister, congratulations, great efforts she has made in this and today we can say that we have a European Union monument in every village. It's not a sculpture, it's a project we co-financed with European money. And this should also be further and more effective. When I speak of the migrant crisis and, as I have already stressed in my position, the importance of our action in the European Council, I must return to yesterday's statement by Mr Tusk, President of the European Council, who, by his statement in Greece yesterday, gave some pretty clear direction, I hope that they will also come true that it will not be only when he calls on all potential illegal economic migrants from wherever they are that they should not come to Europe. Now someone's going to criticize me that maybe I'm thinking of refugees. No, it's the fugitives who run from war and have to be helped. European solidarity should be more prominent here. And Mr Tusk continues: “Greece” because I was there to visit, “but any other European country will no longer be a transit country. The Schengen rules will come into force again." Well, it was the Schengen rules that I warned the President of the Government on 14 December last year when I raised concerns about the establishment of a mini-schengna de facto. We have a Schengen de jure today, only de jure, de facto we have a mini-schengen. Whether someone likes it or not, that's right. That was confirmed by Mr. Tusk. But I am a little surprised, and here should be our efforts, our Slovenian efforts, because in this wave as a transit country we are strongly entangled, that we, at least me personally and New Slovenia, do not meet the deadline for the Schengen rules to start again in full at the end of the year. Too long. I think it can be done, I don't know, maybe in two months. Unfortunately, I do not have enough time for these international trade agreements. I have listened several times to Mrs Cecilia Malmström, who is responsible for the negotiations for the TTIP – the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement. It says that these negotiations are one of the most transparent in EU history. The beginning was bad, I admit it, but every negotiation somehow begins in secret. We have already had quite a few meetings of the European Union Affairs Committee, my colleague Shaker will confirm this where we have become acquainted with these matters, but we have authorized the Government, we have authorized the Government to negotiate. I don't mean to read a bunch of documents like that. New Slovenia – we are Christian Democrats for more Europe, we are for strong countries because strong countries mean a strong border.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u25	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Janko Weber and the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I personally and in Desus see this declaration somehow as a broader framework, as a platform for the preparation of opinions, for only the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in all the institutions of the European Union. At the same time, we see the declaration as a basis for closer cooperation by all its Member States. This is an opportunity and an opportunity to look for common solutions in various areas, to mention some. I'm sure it's priority production and food supply itself. This is an area of environmental and climate issues that are becoming increasingly problematic and increasingly important to address them more optimally. Here I see the search for common solutions in the area of key economic issues, with an emphasis on more efficient use of available resources, especially in the area of more efficient, optimal use of energy. I also see an area where the differences between the uneven development of individual parts of Europe must be addressed in every way. In Europe, too, we have very different areas of development, and we can also talk about the developed north and are inadequately or substantially less developed. I also see opportunities and opportunities for more effective prevention of corruption, money laundering and other economic and financial machinations and fraud, including through consistent and effective punishment of offenders in the same breath. I also see the scope of access to health care, education and other services for all citizens and citizens of Europe. All human rights, equal opportunities and so on must be consistently respected. However, I see particular emphasis in the area of social rights and the rights of the most vulnerable target groups. I'd like to highlight another moment here. In the so-called European Social Funds, more than €10 billion is reserved. These funds must be used effectively by Member States, as it is possible to reduce unemployment by several million. I speak at European level, and consequently I believe that for at least a few thousand or at least a few ten thousand in the Republic of Slovenia. Special emphasis here is on eliminating the so-called long-term unemployment. This is about two segments. This is youth unemployment, which Europe recognises as a key problem, and here I would like to highlight as an important measure the adoption of the Youth Guarantee Programme, and a new package of measures for young people for the period 2016-2020 is also being prepared. We believe that such measures, with such options and tools, will significantly reduce youth unemployment with such tools. It must also be said in the same breath that the problem is not only unemployment, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, but also the unemployment of older people, 55 years of age and older, who have a lot of knowledge, a lot of experience, a lot of energy and a lot of willingness to work, and they are out of a job. This is the same target group of people who, with their knowledge, can make a significant contribution to the welfare of the country and society as a whole. In the actions we are already taking in Slovenia, I believe that the unemployment of this target group will also decrease significantly and then we will be able to talk about intergenerational dialogue in the true sense of the word. At the same time, the reduction in unemployment also reduces the pressure on the social state, reduces the pressure on the payment of social rights transfers to individuals and households, and so on, while increasing through the payment of contributions to both cash and taxes to the budget, also the balance of the state budget and the better functioning. I would also like to highlight from the declaration what I think is very important: equality between women and men, equal treatment of both genders in all areas, both in politics and in the economy. We are looking forward to a package of measures for better coordination of family and professional life, which is a prerequisite for citizens and citizens to be happy, pleased and with which society as a whole has the opportunity to make greater progress. I would like to touch on many other occasions the ignored fact of equal treatment of all persons regardless of their religious beliefs, regardless of their disability, regardless of their age and, finally, irrespective of sexual orientation. I think that the legislation in question must enable all the people and people of Europe to have equal opportunities, equal conditions for life and work. I am, of course, joining all those who welcome more measures, more activities, more conversations and, finally, the results in the area of the treatment of older people, in the field of demographic policy, because, as we know, Europe is not just Slovenia is an ageing society. More attention will have to be paid to this area and more financial contributions will be needed at the end. I believe that the declaration that we are giving her will certainly be important in the Desus Group not only a dead letter on paper, but through the application effects it will also take effect and have a positive impact on all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u27	Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare the mags. Branko Grims and Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. While the guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period 2016-2017 are short, it is likely that a very important period, however, would be necessary to make more efforts to analyse the consequences of the economic and financial crisis on the functioning of countries and the financial and economic system within the EU. If I briefly summarize only the consequences in Slovenia from 2007 to 2012, we have lost 59,000 jobs during this period since the economic and financial crisis. And it is known that even within the European Union and within the Eurogroup countries, in fact, the slowest principle of resolving this economic and financial crisis is, of course, very many young people remain without the possibility of adequate employment. This declaration, in one part, speaks very clearly of the need to take care of young people. In 2016, 2017, too, very much attention should be paid to the systems of youth employment resolution throughout the European Union. Here I would like to point out the following, however, that it would be necessary within the European Union to undertake a serious analysis of the extent to which successful programmes of so-called compression and austerity have been successful, the impact these principles have had on the decline of economic growth in individual countries, including job losses. Finally, I think it would be very useful within the European Union system to consider a study made by Austria, which notes that the consequences of the European Union's action against the Russian Federation are also very serious. Indeed, this study by Austria shows that the EU's action against the Russian Federation created 100 billion euros in losses and claimed a loss of 2.5 million jobs. If we want to take an active approach to increasing economic growth, to increase employment opportunities, to increase the perspective for young people, then, of course, it is also very wise and necessary, in my opinion, to analyse these decisions, otherwise all steps are going in the wrong direction, although it is said publicly that these problems are being addressed, but the measures on the other hand show that this is not the case, so very serious analysis of this action so far within the grip of people and of course the reduction of public consumption and of course the embargo against the Russian Federation. In this light, it is also very important that, at an extremely important stage, there is also a so-called trade agreement between the EU and the United States of America. There is no secret that the current President of the United States also wants this agreement to be concluded before the end of his term of office. And since this is exactly the period 2016-2017 that we are talking about in this declaration, it is very important, however, to also take into account the serious warnings given by the Slovenian economic profession that this trade agreement can have the most negative effects in the motor vehicle industry, in our primary industry, mining, transport, chemical and metal industries and, of course, also in agriculture and fisheries. If only equipment for the metal industry, the chemical industry, transport, the production of motor vehicles can be talked about as negative consequences for our paradoxical economic horses. And if we allow this process to be carried out in a way that, in fact, we will not be able to take measures in each country to eliminate the very difficult consequences in the field of the economy and, of course, then also in the situation of people, it is essential to put more effort into this negotiation process in fact. The guidelines, which have also been somehow exposed to the amendment, are, in my opinion, very serious and must be seriously analysed and taken into account in these negotiations. Therefore, information to the public, information to the economy, and ultimately to the point that national parliaments are the ones to decide whether or not to go into this agreement. With regard to security and common policy, the European Union's foreign policy here could, to the greatest extent, highlight cyber security. It is an area that can have significantly greater consequences than one classical war. This is a fact that we need to be even more aware of in Slovenia. It is true that something was done quickly at the time of the visit of the Deputy Secretary-General of NATO in Slovenia, but very little to talk about effective cybersecurity. In fact, it can happen very quickly that we have a system that operates through which businesses operate, through which the country, of course, operates public institutions and so on, can, of course, become a very difficult situation for the country. I would like to point out this in particular because in the last period there has been an obvious failure in the use of the telephone network, so the state authorities, including the National Assembly, are, I think, with 1. 3. 2016 switched to a foreign operator, we used to have these services with a national operator, now we have these services with a foreign operator. Whether the cyber security aspect has been cleared in this regard or only the economic aspect, i.e. the most expensive service, is, of course, a question that is probably not, I am sure that it needs a clear analysis and a clear answer, whether we are aware of what we are doing. With regard to investment and growth and the placement of Slovenia within the European space, however, the second track project, Luke Koper's third pier, is certainly also the Karavan tunnel, which is practically at such a stage that there is no concern whether or not it will be. But Luke Koper, third pier, second track, are those projects that will place Slovenia as an important country within the EU in 2016 or leave it to other interests. In my opening presentation to the President of the Government, I could see very clearly that he sees this solution within the European Fund for Strategic Investments, the so-called Juncker Fund, which means that the President of the Government still advocates the search for a private investor to build a second track. In a year and a half, when it is clear that there is no private investor, I am very concerned, as we are also losing out on the possibility of drawing grants for the construction of a second track. This is the direction that can lead Slovenia in 2016, 2017 in a completely wrong direction. So once again, I very seriously point out that it is still necessary to decide whether the country will build this track. I think that it can also be built very effectively with Hungary and that then all the fears that the Minister of Finance is exposing, if we reach out to that level, the debt limit and so on. If two countries step together, this contribution is also halved and the matter is significantly more feasible than it is now trying to show when waiting for this Juncker Fund and for private funds. If this situation of Slovenia in 2016, 2017 loses, return, I can say calmly, there will be no successful country in this system. And this is a serious issue that we must finally resolve as soon as possible in Slovenia and then also work as effectively as possible within the European Union. I would also like to stress Slovenia's extremely important role and leadership within the European Union, which is the role of Slovenia in the area of civil protection in the Western Balkans. This is one of the projects where Slovenia has a truly important role, a leading role. In other areas, Slovenia could certainly play this role if we did not leave this important decision as in the banking system, as well as in many of the problems we have in paying off savers, if we did not look at this with some distant eye and a lack of awareness that we are also losing the market and the opportunity to lead the role that Slovenia can play in this area, just as we do in the area of civil protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Levicar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! In the United Left, we have tabled an amendment because the issue of secret trade and investment agreements is one of the key issues for Slovenia as well as for all other European Union countries at this time. It seems incredible to us that political actors of all colors are easily arriving in this way of negotiating and completely undemocratic and, finally, on the logic of agreements themselves. It is true, as my colleague Horvat says, that European Commissioner Malmstromöv said that these negotiations are one of the most transparent in the history of the European Union. Well, this statement of hers really worries me, because if these negotiations are the most transparent and we find the most short-lived, then I really don't know where we are in the European Union. More than 3 million signatures of European citizens are being ignored smoothly. If it were anything really good for the citizens, believe me, to advertise with a jumbo to cry everywhere, not that they are secret, secret, and that they have only opened up to the pressure of a civil initiative. We also believe that people should have the right to decide on these most important things and key issues for our future. That is why we also believe that the TTIP should, of course, have a referendum, because things are more serious than we imagine. We had some research and studies conducted by Jože P. Damian and Črt Kostevc, both from the Faculty of Economics. This study said that it will have negligible economic effects on Slovenia, but of course we all know about the negative aspects of these agreements, which are the reduction of labour, social, food, environmental, consumer rights and standards. In short, we are preparing, we want to make it clear that it is a matter of transferring the sovereignty of Slovenia and that in the case of the Ratification Act a two-thirds majority in Parliament will be required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Say good-bye to everyone again! As you all know, the declaration is very extensive, so it has also been addressed by all committees, because it really covers all the areas of operation of our country in the European institutions and, of course, at home. Given the scope of this material, I intended to define in my debate only a chapter on equality and social inclusion, a broader area of social inclusion. This seems very important to me as well as to me personally, because I really know this area best. This declaration states that ageing requires more investment in active and healthy ageing. Let me say that Slovenia has been deeply involved in this. The AHA project operates in Slovenia. SI, maybe it's over, I don't know. Two years ago, he started, and I participated in this project myself, and this project foresees what we must do in all the areas that will help to ensure that the Slovenian population, which is as old as all other European nations - demographic indicators for us are less favourable than for other European countries - achieve that people will live a healthy and quality life as long as possible. In this way, we will be able to reduce the cost of health care, which will otherwise increase abnormally. The cost of pensions will also increase, so I do not think that the project that Slovenia has to produce this year's White Paper on the changes in pension legislation will be sufficient to manage these changes. Pension reform, or PIZ-1 and PIZ-2, bring satisfactory results, but not in the long term. In the long term, we will have to cut this pension system thoroughly, but as the European Commission warns us – the 2016 report – we have just discussed on the Committee on European Affairs – Slovenia has not done enough or much less to deal with demographic change. As I have already said, we have done little in Slovenia in this area, and if we are no longer able to suffer too much from the state budget. We can't go into this at all. Of course, we must not go into poverty because there will be more pensioners, as there will be substantial numbers of older people. Pensions are already at such a low level that these reforms must seek not only to keep them up at the current level. This is also what the European Commission reminds us in one of the other reports that we need to do more to ensure that pensions are such as to ensure a solid survival at an age. There are still a lot of work to be done in Slovenia in the future. As I mentioned in my introduction, I hope that we will be part of this. The law on long-term care in Slovenia has also been moving too far. Even now, in this mandate, which practically lasts for the second year, we are waiting for it to be addressed by the reform of health care. Minister Koprivnikar made a very good draft law on long-term care and care during his previous period of work, but again he lay down, I don't know where, in what kind of food. I also took part in the presentation of this draft law on long-term care and this draft would not require much additional resources, in fact very little. It is supposed to be a transfer of funds from other sources, both from the pension fund, where they are now providing aid and services, and from municipal funds, where they provide some care at home to the elderly and so on. I don't think it would take much effort to adopt this long-term care law. Desus has been aware of these demographic changes for a long time, and we have also put great pressure on the adoption of the reserve demographic fund, from the very beginning, to be included in the coalition contract. Unfortunately, this has not yet happened, although we have already received a draft, again at our request to the Ministry of Finance. In my past period, I have dealt with gerontology and also with the people involved in this area and these laws that I have mentioned, they have somehow told me, former Health Ministers, that the main obstacle was financial. Once the finance ministers have settled this area as necessary, this legislation will be adopted. I hope that our finance minister will also listen to the adoption of this law on the reserve demographic fund and that there will be enough resources for solid pensions in the future, when there will be even more pensioners, and that we will somehow manage this challenge so that there will be more or more working people. Again, this is a particular issue that could require quite a debate, but I do not think today is the time for us to talk about it in the near future. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I will start with some minor shortcomings, at least as I see them, and then I will continue with those positive aspects of this document that I think are substantial more. The first issue — and I still think that progress has been made since what happened in the past — is the ambition of some guidelines. On the one hand, it is true that there is also a diplomatic document in which very soft words or directions can say very much, but I would like a little more at certain points. What do you mean? Even in the way that that Council document has been prepared and where the objectives are envisaged, how do we actually define ourselves as the Republic of Slovenia, in order to then even more directly reflect these interests, our plan, because if we all know this clearly enough in our own direction then we row, then it is easier to communicate to others and then we are easier to take account of where we want it to be, where we want it to be. As far as progress is concerned. Certainly, this year we received this document earlier, it is a fact that we could also deal more with it, talk more and also get more explanations, it is definitely an advantage. In the future, it may be possible to have another day here before. But it is also true that there are objective reasons why this is not possible. I'll explain that later. The next matter proposed was a few amendments. I think we have had a very solid discussion, especially with the United Left, that some improvements have been made with some amendments to the committees. If I move on to the content that's crucial, it seems to me that it's well placed. When we talk about this economic monetary union for the greater stability of the European economy, I think that everything is relatively well articulated. When we talk about a financial union and so on, we often talk about a bank hole and so on, we talk about the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia, and here also that aspect that is extremely important, it is said that there are appropriate mechanisms available when something goes wrong. These mechanisms are being built. There's been a lot already done. In short, even Slovenia supports this, there will be many others, that in the end the budget will not be the one who gets hurt, but increasingly the stages before, those who have to pay for it, so that the taxpayers will not end up suffering. The Republic of Slovenia also supports the European Commission's intention to propose a basic level of social rights. We in Slovenia have this firmly established or very well compared to some other countries. This government has also put quite a few emphasis on this area, including through the budget. There is certainly some basic social network, at least a study of what the possibilities are and so on, that is good, I think Slovenia can also give a few positive experiences in this regard. Of course, that's what he's after. It also concerns a wide range of measures to reduce unemployment and poverty. Many measures have already been effectively implemented by Slovenia. Let's say we look at one of the better indicators of youth unemployment. Over the course of one year, it's been steep, so it's said, compared to all the countries around it, it's fallen. So youth unemployment is significantly lower than it was at the same time a year ago. If we move forward, then as far as the Capital Markets Union is concerned. It is then also said that different levels of development and size of the capital markets of the Member States should be taken into account. Of course, we are a smaller country, the development of our market is different from what we call a financial or capital core, a Europe of old Member States, large Member States. And here it is important to take into account our interests, which may be slightly different. Here, of course, we need a different treatment mainly because the fact is that when a crisis begins, economic, financial, as has happened with us, it is as if someone falls into one frozen river. And the first thing that starts is the blood begins to go out of your hands and other endings against your heart. And we are just a little longer than the heart, and it is very important here that such mechanisms are such that Slovenia advocates such mechanisms, which will also allow us to keep this market so dynamic in our midst that it does not further deepen the crisis. Certainly, as set out here in the government's strategy, I think that's a good thing. As regards the development direction of the budget of the European Union. It is also important for Slovenia to stand up for itself and tell us what is important to us. Cohesion is important, but we are at a stage that is not as high as investment and infrastructure development and all that is at European level. Therefore, it is normal for us, or as a government, to work at all these levels, to continue to be linked to various investments. For us, infrastructure is somehow crucial that we have in Slovenia, after all, if we go to look at railways, as someone coming from the coast, I think I have to mention this, say, second track in two corridors at the same time and that there is money for the development of these networks, for the entire railway network, to ensure the second track, which is the narrowest track to move forward and in the following perspectives also invests further into the rest of the infrastructure. As far as other matters are concerned, one of the important things that is in here is also that we are aware that in as many as three macro-regions of the four existing at European Union level, we will also chair one of these, and we will be able to better explain some of the regional interests and find ourselves here within. Taking on these leading roles, or both in taking initiatives and in managing, offering some infrastructure to develop regional policies, is certainly positive. This shows that Slovenia is projective not to sit behind and listen to what others will say, but to put its proposals on the table and it is also possible to support it. A lot of other points are here, but I wouldn't be talking about them right now, because I think my colleagues are going to say something about it. However, I would like to define myself for some discussions. That's what I started with. It was evident that last year there was a 6-month delay in the intervention of the National Assembly, now three months late. One of the key documents, a Council document, was adopted on 3 December 2015. We received this document at the National Assembly in December, still in December. It is true that we are now in March, but the fact is that a document as important as this goes through virtually every committee of the National Assembly. Which means that the 2-month deadline – plus two months and a half, as long as it takes for the National Assembly to carry out its task – is normal because it has to go through all the committees, it is necessary to take time to talk about it. At each point, the government also defined our questions and provided us with answers. The fact is, the bulk of the time in this process was taken by the National Assembly, not by the Government. So here, however, it is necessary to be so correct, in my opinion. Furthermore, in one of the views, as regards the strong euro and the impact on Slovenia, I think Germany has been mentioned. If we look at what has been happening lately and what the ratio is, say, from 2014 onwards, I think, 1.4 to 1.1 and the fact that we have an expansionary monetary policy in the sense that EUR 60 billion is being distributed each month. So we're actually drowning in money and flooding this market. It means that the European Union is working intensively to reduce the value of the euro rate, that the European Union will also be more competitive in export, to launch a new wave of investment and so on. And the Republic of Slovenia definitely benefits from this, otherwise indirect, but not small. For example, if Germany exports to the US, if Slovenia supplies to German companies, it is logical that it also brings Slovenian exporters out. And if we look at how GDP has grown, what is the structure of how our exporters are developing, how, after all, they have improved their financial position also at the expense of reducing debt and having some stocks of money for investment and for new businesses, the fact that this part of the policy benefits us too. I am not saying that Slovenia is leading a European monetary policy, but it is definitely not true that it is working to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia, because here is a concrete example of how we have one of these. Mr Vatovec further discussed the transparency of the TTIP. I think that a number of important steps have also been taken here on the basis of this in the previous declaration. There we dealt with this transparency, which is what Slovenia advocates. I think that Slovenia has also successfully advocated this, given that we have an opportunity at the Ministry of the Economy to look into these documents – and that as far as parliamentarians are concerned, including the United Left. And second thing, this is where the next thing was added. If you go to see what a website looks like now or access to documents related to these negotiations, or what it looked like, say, a year and a half, two years ago, you now have a number of documents published there, very important. And I think that steps have been taken to make this process transparent have been quite positive. It is true, however, that, in my view, transparency also has a limit, but in the part where negotiations are under way and there are some interests, some negotiating points, and it is a little awkward to disclose them during such negotiations or in the course of the cycle itself, because this could be harmful for the European Union and indirectly harmful for us. As in the case of the arbitration procedure currently under way. Of course, this procedure will probably be transparent, but it will be able to look back at everything, and it will also communicate appropriately and so on. But at that stage, which is the most sensitive and negotiations are being held, the secret documents are being presented and so on, and this part must also be somewhat less for my understanding of the protection of our interests to a certain extent, I will not say transparent, but closed. If I'm going to end it somehow, 'cause I seem to have taken a long time. Compared to the previous one, I think it is better, it is clearer, it is more precise or concrete, it is a good document that everyone, and in the end the government can also say to us in some way, that we are something when it is accepted, that it is an agreement that we will eventually row all in the same direction, at least in terms of representing and defending the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will not start by saying that the document is important, because of course we know it is important, but of course it must be said that I agree with the essayist or writer who said yesterday: “Life is too easy to stick to documents.” He said something else, but, okay, this part of the quote refers to this work today. The problem of the European Union at this point is whether it's a confederation or a federation, these are classic expressions, we would say we have crossed over. So the Confederacy is gone, there's almost no doubt here, we've gone over, but the Federation is not yet, if I may say so. This is where our relationship to these issues is now slightly shattered. In short, we are not another country, but, I say, even the confederacy as such is nothing more. But, of course, there are problems in that too, because the first problem is definitely financial, economic, economic, this European Union is certainly too busy dealing with the big financial capital it solves daily and almost, I will say, unscrupulously if we take the example of bank resolution in Greece, including Slovenia, of course. These solutions are very painful for us, but we are essentially saving large financial capital, which is not just European, even transnational. We have a moral problem. Europe was built on humanism, enlightenment, if you want, especially in the fight for peace in Europe, this was a fundamental starting point, but today Europe is acting on ideological criteria. And here, of course, we have or I have problems, because ideology should not be some fundamental principle, how we solve the issue of refugees, about whom there is so much talk, because we see how this separation, in fact, sometimes this relationship forms extremely clearly and also in some way unsympatheticly. Or, if you want, also the question already mentioned today, the relation to the agreement between the United States of America and Europe, i.e. this trade agreement, from the agricultural policy point of view, this agreement is 100 % harmful, noting that, of course, this agreement is not the final text, but, of course, where European Members are voting in a party's language, that is, ideologically, not in the interest of their own, i.e. the Slovenian nation. We even have Slovenians with this globalisation a whole series of problems, and that is why I agree that in the area of culture, something needs to be done in the area of language. We can do everything good, but at least in some way we have to, even the question of the latest quotas, say, in radio programmes, that Slovenian music must be broadcast over the day, it was a clear question of what our relationship to Slovenian is as a basic language, which we are trying not only to sell or not only to listen to the audience, what they think, but also to educate the audience in this sense. By the way, the musicians responded because we've been ignoring this issue for years. And what did they do? So at the European Singing, EMA, of course, we saw that they were mostly singing in a foreign language. This is, of course, already the result of some training that has unfortunately not been done. Of course, this is true of all cultures not only of language. In culture as the identity of European culture and of course also of Slovenian nationals, Europe has actually grown. Call, I'll say, a simple call that we sometimes hear: “I am for a strong Europe!” You know, I'm not for a strong Europe. Strong solutions are always extreme solutions; they are usually very questionable decisions. I'm for a democratic Europe. I am in favour of an economically democratic Europe, which means that they are poor, equally rich, that there is a need to find a social balance here, that of course we cannot put all the elderly simply on the sidelines so that they cannot survive. In short, we all have to live a life worth living, then Europe will be democratic and, of course, Slovenia. I'm for a political democratic Europe, I wouldn't explain it again because we know these problems. And, of course, I am for an ecologically enlightened Europe, all together in battle, as I said before, for the peace that is urgently needed in Europe or the world, because peace is a fundamental condition, everything else, if there is no peace, is, of course, somehow without real meaning, a political sense. But it is up to us, of course, not the document, depending on how we will behave in our work in a responsible and, of course, democratically. The document, however, I think that, on the basis of this, it covers these things in a global way and, of course, we agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! Several times it has been pointed out that this is an extremely important document for the functioning of the European Union. But I will say it myself, or I will not give this document so much weight, because not only in our country, there have been a lot of written, much more confessed, but less done in the European Community. In my address, I would like in particular to highlight and give value to the people of the Slovenian, European, secular, but not so many written letters or spoken words. In its essence, a declaration is intended to lead, but what if the European Union faces problems that no one could well predict and prepare for it, rather than respond appropriately? In fact, if we remember, at the beginning of the last year, we have put a lot of emphasis on some way of solving finances, financial markets or banking services, in a way that we have just drifted away and forgotten about the human being, in fact. When we talk about the European Union, we say that it was created primarily by peace, economic cooperation, but the foundation and centre of everything is only European or human as such. The European Union was at a time when, at least personally, I remember with nostalgia, at the time of Roman Prodi, a progressive continent or association of different thinkers, which provides basically peace, prosperity, but mainly directed its way into the development of society not only to Europeans but in a global sense. There was a great deal of emphasis, if you remember, on sustainable development or on the development of innovation, on the strengthening of young life in the European Union. In the face of the first major crisis that occurred in the 1970s of the post-war period, we have somehow become selfish, in some ways created national interests, not the value that guarantees us long-term peace and stability, and this is the European Union. It is true that there are many external factors to which we have not been able to answer, but the question is whether we will solve the situation in the future in a way that we will distance ourselves from Europe or demand more from Europe. We are not talking too much about the role of leaders in the European Union, because, with the strengthening of leaders at national level, this institutional Europe is, in some ways, shown mainly in a negative light, we view Brussels as a bureaucratic apparatus, where the possibility of lobbying and expressing the interests of certain groups is particularly exposed to what I have already stressed before the interests of the core, the essence, and that is European. The position on both the external, security, economic, as I said before, in some ways Europeans no longer see themselves as or at least a large majority of the priority. I am not just talking about some initiative to reorganise or think, which should also be done more broadly, not only within the European Union, maybe NATO or even the United Nations. In some ways, postwar Europe has been able to be the link between cultures, mutual dialogue, different approaches, with which few links or states can be commended in a global sense. In a way, we always turn away from some of the interests of even greater, even stronger ones. But we forget that we used to be that generator of some kind. I would like the declaration to focus more on the course of events that we have witnessed to him in these months and to which no answers can be found. It is true that there are interesting points when we talk about social, about agriculture, which is extremely important, about the transatlantic links themselves in terms of signing new and different agreements, but we must always go back and realize where we come from before we find the answers to where we're going. Above all, I would like the fight to highlight the influence of our leaders, when I speak, in saying what the President of Europe is doing, or the Prime Minister of Europe or the Foreign Minister and their role. Without strong figures in institutional Europe, we will not move individual countries inside. Above all, I would like my address to go in the direction of some personal, internal reflection and to carry this relationship forward to Europe. As far as we are concerned, I would like to knock on our consciousness and, above all, to strengthen our confidence, even in the speech of the Prime Minister and as long as I see in the official documents that we are a small economy, that we are a small country, and when we go beyond certain geographical definitions, it seems to me that in such a name we are looking for the main reasons, rarely do I hear that successful smaller countries or more precisely their leaders speak out for smallness. We're not small. We're amazing! We are, according to this geographical position, and how we have been protected by these great, great nations, a kind of phenomenon, and from this philosophy, we must draw our confidence. I am surprised that I am fortunate to be able to meet with foreign representatives of parliaments as a Member to know more about them than they know about me. That's an extraordinary advantage. Maybe it's because I come from a border area and I always know more about Italians than Italians about me when I'm speaking in a parable. But that's a distinct advantage. We are extremely well-educated, subdued. Maybe you need to knock more than once on that door where you can find confidence. That's what I'm calling for. More confidence! But I would like a stronger Slovenia and even more Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State! We have before us documents called the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union for the period January 2016-June 2017. In fact, this document refers mainly to Slovenia and in particular to how Slovenia will exercise its interests in Europe, what Slovenia's priorities are in this regard and how it will be effective. Some have already pointed out some of the weaknesses of this document. The first weakness is that it arrived too late in the National Assembly and that we are dealing with it today, when we are in early March, in fact, certain activities are already taking place, now I do not know whether by following these documents or by following any other document. So this is definitely a weakness and I think this is where the government of Mira Cerar can do more in the future. But I don't think there's any problem with just laying hands a little earlier. Even on the Committee on Foreign Policy, I have not actually heard the reasons for this today. It was also said that the document was being prepared in October, then by the end of November and so on, and today, in some areas, it is no longer up to date. The other thing that may be even worse, and some have also pointed out, including the apostle Christmas, is when he mentioned ambition. He did not go any further, but, as I understand it, ambition means that this document, or I will now be too ambitious about the importance of Slovenia, as far as the objectives of Slovenia within the European Union are concerned, not only within the European Union, but which should also be European objectives. About that a little bit later. What are those fundamental priorities of Slovenia in this connection within the framework of the European Union and Europe to the other world, to other continents, if you wish? It's not here. That's not the case either, because there's no analysis of the condition. Today, neither in Slovenia nor at European Union level are we doing an analysis of the situation where we are. Of course, I'll be able to prove why it isn't. But one directive, one and the same, which was not adopted at the level of the European Union, which was not then adopted in the Member States, is being drawn. I am not saying that this weakness is only Slovenia, but also Slovenia has not done an analysis of the situation where we are regarding our priorities in the previous period, which lasted until January 2016. We had a declaration back then. What did we do there? Actually, that's not what it is. This is the next weakness, because there is no such situation, in fact we do not know what is behind where the base is, where the base on which some priorities could be set is simply. As a result, these guidelines, which are listed here, are also quite indecisive. Even when I go through some areas, I'm actually going to say what's particularly undecided. So from this point of view, as some have said, I also think that my colleague German, simply paper because of the paper, declaration because of the declaration, and in fact what Slovenia will actually get out of this. Certainly, when we are talking about the situation analysis, some of the things that are most relevant to us and Europe today are under-emphasized. Here I would mention at least two things, this is brexit, this is how Europe reacts if the United Kingdom actually exits the European Union. I know that this will not happen immediately, then the United Kingdom has two more years to prepare and so on, but these consequences are still the most up to date. In this regard, I would, of course, mention, because this is also not the case, the financing of the European Union. Today, within the European Union, we have countries that receive more money from the European Union than they give them, and we have countries that contribute more to the European Union than they actually do. According to the analysis – I will not be able to say much more precisely – that the Netherlands is about EUR 400 per capita for the financing of the European Union, Germany is slightly more than EUR 200 per capita, Britain is less than EUR 100, there is about EUR 100 per capita for the financing of the European Union because it has a special agreement. Slovenia is a recipient of funds, a net recipient of funds. If we look at this funding situation, then, of course, we can also find out where some of the fundamental problems, the more beautiful, fundamental problems of the European Union are. So from this point of view, it is certainly here, if we are talking about Europe, that there is some weakness or at least that matter is missing in this context. And here there is no strategy and Europe has no strategy, but we are part of Europe and, of course, we are also responsible in this regard. The other is migration. We, already here, have talked much more about migration problems than Europe has said. Here Europe is uneven, even more, Europe here is a different and different rate of migration crisis and the failed and migrant crisis is making it worse. And if, of course, it makes it worse, it's not good, especially if the Schengen doesn't work. And we are also talking here about the Schengen border and how we are cursing the Schengen border, but we need to ask ourselves if this is really the situation that is shown here in this document. I don't think so. That things are moving too fast. I agree that it is not possible to amend this document very quickly, although I think that on the Committee on Foreign Policy, on the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Government could also amend the document. Why not? With certain new chapters or parts of chapters, whatever. As a result, if we look at what is going to happen by June 2017, then we can see that it is an unusable document on certain issues. And it would certainly be easy to say here what Slovenia's priorities are in the area of the migration crisis, because Slovenia is the one that borders the Schengen area that is not working today and what are the problems in this regard. So also in the field of foreign policy, these matters are relatively modest. Here, too, colleague Heinz spoke about Europe itself, and so on, it is not for Europe to be strong, as he said. I am not for a strong Europe in terms of having both rich and poor and so on. That may be a completely different question. When it comes to a strong Europe, it's about Europe, at least I'm talking about other continents, Asia, the United States, other countries, world countries, how strong Europe is. And if you ever listen to Mrs Lagarde from the International Monetary Fund, then she will also assess individual parts of the world, of course with data on economic growth, financial crises, unemployment, social affairs, who is the main actor today and who is the strong economy, which is the emerging economy and so on. And here Europe is failing and here Europe is weak. In this context, Europe is weak when we look at the global economy, the global economy and also the evolving processes in the country. This is something we really need to be aware of when we talk about what kind of Europe we actually have. If we start with leadership in Europe, then this leadership is also weak. Today in Europe we do not have any kind of leader with charisma, a leader who would actually draw behind us many other leaders, and would represent this Europe in the world even to the Europeans themselves, even to us. Here, and in the past, Europe had personalities that were moral leaders and those original leaders who actually put this Europe on its feet, which gave it meaning, purpose, and, of course, in the past also ensured the success of this Europe during a certain period of time. It's not Europe today. Nor are the problems between us and the European Union defined in this document. Here I agree that the financial crisis has left certain consequences for Europe not only in the financial sense, but also in the sense that the resolution of some countries, Cyprus and Greece in the framework, for certain countries and in the light of procedures is difficult and not only problematic, can also be problematic. The problem is whether the right measures have always been taken, taken the right measures and, of course, also implemented the right measures and who has actually been solved. Or capital or states? Such a development raises the question of when or if the following financial crises will occur and what solutions will be found in this area. I don't see them. It is clear that today, alongside migration, Europe's biggest problem, and I have also spoken in terms of leadership, is the problem of unemployment. Above all, youth unemployment is not only with us, but also in Spain, Greece and other countries, of course, this index, I will say, goes up to 50%, which means every other European is unemployed, which in other words means, of course, that he is looking for and not finding his perspective in this Europe. That's worrying. As for Slovenia, it is worrying that several thousand young people do not see a perspective in Slovenia and therefore go to other environments. This is a problem for Slovenia. There is no perspective and there is no future and these young people are lost for Slovenia. These young people have been lost for several decades. And unfortunately, the station, I'll say, is getting used to it. Here, too, Slovenia has a problem with this text concerning education, which I will of course also get to. So Europe and, of course, Slovenia, too, are faced with problems that cannot be solved in the area of migration, in the area of unemployment, in the area of finance and, I think, in the area of governance. If we go to individual items, of course, I'm talking about problems here, this document is talking about challenges. This document does not know the word of the problem, but the first sentence begins: "The European Union has been facing challenges in recent times, which are probably the most difficult test for the strength of the link so far." [[…]] The challenge is something other than a problem. First, it is a problem, and based on the analysis of these problems, there may be a challenge, but the document does not want to talk about problems, but these problems are. We can't run from reality here. There are challenges everywhere. I hope that the government will actually solve these challenges, only to analyse them first, to analyse the actual situation, to analyse the problems, to say the wrong word, problems, as well as problems, but then there will be challenges. This is also the case with a fragile European identity, which I have been talking about, and so on, that a high level of security needs to be ensured. Security is also declining in Europe today. Because Europe is also unable to respond to certain security problems. Here we have been spinning for a long time in a vicious circle in Europe, then it is now the turn of the use of NATO forces, for example at the border between Greece and Turkey. But it's the question of the powers of these Nate forces. These powers depend on how effective and successful these NATO forces will be. If it's not authorized, it won't work either. In this regard, this document may also need to be prepared in terms of a more realistic picture of the situation. I am this principled definition of Slovenia when we say that, of course, we will continue to implement measures for business and growth, social inclusion, poverty reduction. I will not go any further because it is simply necessary to say that this needs to be justified. These goals may be at odds with each other on the basis of pure economic logic and even general logic; they are simply in conflict, but they would not be here. I would say, however, that we are talking about the European level of social rights and how we are going to do this is not a realistic situation, as the United Kingdom has concluded an agreement on how the United Kingdom will not participate in ensuring this level of social rights. And not a lot of other countries. This agreement, which has now been signed between the European Union and the United Kingdom, excludes the United Kingdom from paying for any social rights; in particular for people who do not live or who have come to work in the United Kingdom. Then this document is actually not real if we're talking about it. Even in terms of energy dependence and when I listened to the President of the Government, when he spoke about the coherence of this policy and about a strong energy policy, it was a real situation. The real situation is for Europe, how much Europe will depend on Russia for energy policy. This is a fundamental question. In this regard, too, how much will Slovenia depend on Russian gas if you want. Certain countries in Europe as well as Europe say: No, we do not want to be energy dependent on Russia and the countries that go to this energy pool in the East, which are also friends of Russia. This is a fundamental issue if we are talking about energy dependence. There is no answer here what Slovenia will do. We also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs the day before his interpretation, and there was no answer. There is no answer to the fact that the European Union and the analysis of the effectiveness of the European Union's external policy, which has now been issued as – Mr Bildt, is performing in the context of this analysis. This analysis is clear to us that we have done too much for the so-called South Stream and that Slovenia wants to be dependent on energy policy. There is no question here now, there is no strategy, there is no European objective, what is really about it. Then we can also move on to transport policy and this project to build the railway track Kozina-Koper. If we talk about this, there are also no exact answers here to when, how and whether Slovenia in general is the country that can in some way meet all the conditions for European funds. I'm afraid not. If we go to some flowers in this document, then these flowers are certainly in the field of taxation. We will here support some directives that Europe itself cannot adopt. For example, it has not been possible to adopt for several decades a directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base. This Directive applies to multinationals and I do not even know if Slovenia has one large undertaking to be taxed under this Directive. But here we advocate this directive, which does not apply at all to Slovenia or perhaps one or two companies. And what are we gonna do about it? But much is written, for example, about the development of small businesses. Of course, we will also be strong on the aviation strategy. Adria Airways is sold or sold, however, Slovenia will first put in Adrio 3 million 100 money and then sell it for 100,000 – the next day; I don't know how long. But we will still be dealing with the aviation strategy in Europe. This has already been decided on by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission on the sale of Adrie Airways, it has already been sold and only become technical; and we will be very strong in this area. It's all out of tune. This means, of course, that certain people will go to Brussels; now I don't know whether they're with Adrio Airways or with another airline, and they're doing something there, they're defending something, a few times a year, twelve times every month, when these working groups in Brussels are actually going to talk about it. One of the most important areas for the development and existence of the people is higher education, science and technology. Here is a goal to provide a sufficient number of graduates with tertiary education, researchers and so on, to increase innovation, innovation, research. In short, even in connection with youth. But on one side goes several thousand young people a year to Europe from Slovenia, including several thousand people leaving Slovenia and creating a home in Austria for example. On the other hand, we have many graduates who are unemployed in Slovenia. I can also tell you the professions that go away, especially technical professions, engineers, pharmacists, chemists, all leave; we are left with sociologists. I'm not against sociologists, I'm a sociologist, too, but I'm unemployed. And here we are talking about an education strategy and similar things. This is not the case together because this document is not based on an analysis of the situation. And it's a declaration due to a declaration. And it's a document for a document; that's why I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is given by Kamal Izidor Shaker, to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would begin the very process of accepting this declaration. I must say that I am pleased that the 2004 administration has enacted this and has entered into the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union matters. I think it's important because it's an extremely horizontal document and it concerns a lot of areas. It is also appropriate to deal with this in the working bodies of the National Assembly. This declaration, from 24 December 2015, when this paper was added to the National Assembly until today, addressed twelve working bodies plus the Committee on European Union Affairs, which is the committee responsible, plus the Committee on Foreign Policy, where we have also discussed this document. Why did the procedure last so long? Since the European Council has to approve this matter and, under the Tria programme of the Presidency, this declaration is also being prepared. The Council confirmed the tripartite presidency, I think, on 3 December last year, then the Ministry of the Interior prepared this matter to the end, finished it, sent it to the National Assembly and on 3 and 5 January we already had a presentation of the presidency of the future Tria Presidency. The declaration is quite general and can be written inside what you want, you could go look at every single comma. In some ways, I think the document is prepared in an exemplary way, unlike the previous one, which has already been mentioned. The previous document, for a year and a half, was prepared as soon as we were given our mandate. And we've run out of six months. At that time, we accepted this declaration for one year. This time, we have succeeded in adopting it for the next year and a half on 4 March and will have guidance to operate in the European Union institutions. But I would like to point out the involvement of the National Assembly in this process. The process, even in some way of overseeing all representatives flying to Brussels, is also considered by the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union, and on the basis of this document that we are about to adopt today, we now see that not by as unanimous a majority as I myself have in some way desired and endeavoured. This is some basis for ministers, state secretaries to the National Assembly to the Committee on European Union Affairs and to defend the detailed positions formulated by the Government on a wide variety of issues; and this is happening weekly. And last but not least, TTIP, infamous agreement. This agreement is open to all Members and Members of the National Assembly on 5 Kotnikov Street, in the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and we have also received a letter from the Secretary-General. I would like to know how many Members will be able to look at it, because it is a material of over 3,000 pages. We have also considered this agreement on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and the Commissioner, mentioned earlier by Mr Horvat, has also visited us. It has assured us that these negotiations will be transparent, even more transparent than they have been. As already mentioned, these negotiations are truly open and this agreement will, I hope, be adopted as soon as possible. And another thing I was going to mention is that I put quite a effort into meeting with the amendments' proponents. We have tabled amendments to the coalition groups, which have been adopted, because this is how we wanted to improve this declaration in certain areas. As far as the amendments of the United Left are concerned, I must say that I have also made quite an effort to somehow come together to sit down, we have agreed, we have proposed amendments as amendments to the Committee. It grieves me that there is now such a negative attitude towards this declaration. I might end up at this point. Once again, I can say that I hope that this declaration, regardless of all the shortcomings it has – of course, could also be a better document, any document could be better – but confirmed by the widest possible consensus.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Get Dr. Milan Brglez ready, Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the government's representatives! Given the presence and interest in the meeting room, I understand that this topic has already come to light, which is also clear in view of the fact that it has been dealt with by the competent committees. And this is once again another topic about the functioning of the National Assembly, whether this topic has to be addressed so many times on various working bodies and then once again in the National Assembly. It's actually a waste of time, but that's another topic. I'm going back to the motion for a declaration. The declaration provides guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a broader framework of action, and we can also say a diplomatic document with which the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia operate. It must be said here that, in view of the Council of Europe's 18-month programme, which is chaired by the Netherlands, Slovakia and Malta, the following should be said. These two documents, although this has been the decade since the declaration was considered, are slightly different. Here I will allow myself a little constructive criticism in the direction that it would be very good, that these two documents would somehow be comparable in terms of volume and content and that they could then get back this feedback on what has been done or what else needs to be done in this time frame when these two programmes are complementary. It has to be said that in a certain segment a number of important things are neglected for Slovenia, and I will be very specific, this is a transport policy. On pages 23 and 25, the policy of Slovenia is mentioned. I'll give you a key example, indicated, for this unfortunate second track. It is mentioned in the opening part somewhere on page 5 as the start-up of investments, but only in a few words. I think that such an economic project is so important and important for Slovenia, such as the second track, should be included in this document on the guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia. But not everything is so black, it must also be said that in the work relating to foreign policy, security and defence from the 58th page forward, there are some positive things, namely the action in the European Union's macro-regional strategies, where we are quite active. Here we can truly praise the Presidency of the Alpine macro-region, which is undoubtedly important in 2016 also because of our Slovenian interests. However, if I go back to one part of internal affairs from 48 – migration, initiatives have been set up here today for a new migration policy as well as asylum policy. Once again, there is one piece missing from me, namely the integration policy or the implementation of integration policy in this pan-European integration policy. I think this is very important; much more important than it is written here, that as one of the important elements is written this relocation of the refugees who are already with us. I think maybe it's a little bit mutually exclusive. It is also important to say, as regards internal matters, that border and coastal guards, somehow establishing and operating operations are very important, as well as supplementing Frontex or increasing its power is one of these elements, which will then act as a strong factor in internal affairs and migration policy as well. And it takes a very strong operation of Slovenia because it has experience with this, because we know what migratory flows are like in our country. It is also important to welcome the operation in the Western Balkans, including in the context of the fight against terrorism and the VBCT initiative, which is very important for this region to also be reviewed and weakened. In the end, I have two more matters to apply. Mr Shircelj said, as did another speaker, that the documents had arrived late. I'll tell Mr. Shirtz again and show him. On 3 December, the Council of the European Union issued this and sent it to all governments. Our government is then 23. She sent her 12th to the National Assembly. As far as the timeline is concerned, I think it's somehow understandable given that it went to all the committees and it worked for all the committees. I think that one step has been taken before, however, because I think Mr Logar also mentioned that three months earlier this year came into consideration. Another matter to which I must respond and replicate is Mr Horvath, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber. He said that Mr Tusk had stated that Slovenia was not in the mini-schengo or something in this respect. As far as I have information, Mr Tusk praised Slovenia's actions in this migrant crisis and the constructive attitude of the Slovenian Government towards initiatives and all matters relating to the migrant crisis. Finally, it must be said that Slovenian interests must be enforced in all European institutions at every opportunity and at every opportunity, irrespective of the political affiliation of our or our stakeholders in the European Union. Of course, I would like to because this year was the 10th time that this document would look like the 11th time to see what was done last year and what more needs to be done. I think it's very important, and then we'll have an even easier substantive conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Brglez has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar, followed by Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me start by telling the representatives of the Government and the rest of the colleagues, both those who are here and those who are not, that what is important for this declaration is to know or what we will do today – of course we will confirm it and I will confirm it myself – but it is true that much of what is happening with this document has somehow become part of the routine. On the one hand, on the government side in terms of how this document is drawn up, and on the other hand also on our side. And if we're critical of anything, we should be critical on both sides. I think that we should also develop capacities in Parliament to be able to assess European matters autonomously, that is one part of the story. On the other hand, there is still some additional effort on the government side to make this document more integrated; although I think there has been an effort this year that is visible. Once all the organs are hierarchically on the same level, it's very difficult, as a person would call it, who gets something out and who gets something in. Okay, but it's just an explanation of what this document is, and it explains that there's a problem on the one hand and on the other hand; it's not just a problem on the government side. The problem is that it has become most likely to be routine; the problem is that as such the document is also likely to be opaque from this point of view because it is huge and must adapt to external circumstances; these external circumstances are the very institutions of the European Union. As far as these institutions of the European Union are concerned, it has generally been considered that a country like us should support their development as much as possible, longing as possible for the fact that these institutions should actually work for our benefit. [[…]] So the more developed central institutions, the more secure we are from everyone else. I think that, unfortunately, is no longer the case in the current development of the European Union, and that is how the European Union needs, or at least by individual members, a critical reflection. What is important is that, rather than in line with the interests of the weakest members, these institutions act in accordance with the interests of the strongest members. Sometimes it's even a matter of structural bias if you want. The structure is so structured, not only by voting positions, but, simply, if individual countries fail to develop their system of action within the European Union, they are not in time to actually pursue the interests, their own interests, that is, the interests of their country. And this part is something to be aware of, and that's what we're left with. What this declaration represents is some direction in view of all the events that will take place in the European Union. But I wouldn't say it's a terrible surplus or anything. For the reader, it is a hard text to get there from the beginning; for the one who has to exercise interests on a particular occasion, of course, when he sets aside that interest, it is not that difficult. What else would you like to point out? I would like to point out that the system needs to be developed. However, the development of the system assumes that, as I said before, we are particularly in time when the agenda is being set; since it is usually over by the time the agenda is set, it is literally over. This setting up of views is essentially a reaction that is not necessarily in the interest of what we would like to protect ourselves. As I said before, this deepening of integration is not necessarily in the interest of countries such as Slovenia; however, it is important to know that national parliaments as representatives of the people have their say. And here sometimes is the transfer of what the interests of individual national parliaments are to the government level, sometimes a little weak. So it has happened to me that I have ever read the guidelines sent to me by the foreign ministry, what Parliament thinks; but I know that no decision has been made on this matter either on the committee or elsewhere. There is still some room for manoeuvre to improve; however, we cannot choose our environment within the European Union. We need to do everything within the given framework that we can to protect our fundamental interest as much as possible, and this is the further development of the country and individual citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag's got a replica. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I recognized myself in some of my colleagues' statements. First, I would reply on the criticality or negativeness of having a negative attitude towards this document with my debate, as Mr Shaker said. He didn't name me, but I recognized him for thinking that. Here I must say that my relationship wants to be particularly constructive. All my claims were based on this document, on a critical attitude towards this document and, of course, on a constructive attitude towards this document, and certainly not on a negative attitude. I'd rather say positive, but still critical. Secondly, Mr Ferruga, we are Members here and I would not spit myself in the bowl, as the Slovenian word says. For this reason, to repeat constantly that it is irrelevant to discuss that we have discussed here already I do not know how many times that we are some insignificant factor here, an insignificant factor we Members here. You were saying that it's essentially a waste of time to discuss this document. I quote "loss of time." I think that's actually how we Members spit ourselves in the bowl. If you don't want to discuss it, then don't discuss it; just don't say it's a waste of time, because I'm discussing it. That's what you said, by the way. I think it is essential that we discuss this document and that we must give further guidance to the government on how it will work in the European Union. Mr. Ferruga, you say there is a lack of integration policy. You mentioned this word relationship. I would be very careful here, I mentioned that there are several thousand people, several thousand students from Slovenia, to create several thousand unemployed every year, mainly by sociology, and then that we will integrate several more thousand people who are not born in Slovenia, who can also be migrants; at the time of negative birth, at the time of negative birth. Sorry, that's what the document's talking about. I think it's very complicated here. And if you're seriously thinking about integration here and I don't know how much integration policy to put in, then the Slovenians will die out very quickly with such a policy. And I'm not up for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Three minutes. Mr. Ferluga, there's no replica on the replica. Now we proceed with Mr Magi. Angel Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you, Madam President. At the outset, I said that this document is a very general database that does not reflect the actual weight, as the law imposes on the drafters of this document. As this falls under the foreign ministry, it is obvious that the foreign ministry also agrees with this statement. In fact, there is no minister, no secretary of state; therefore, there is no key source to cover this debate. Once again, how can we believe that this is the best we can represent in the institutions of the European Union in the next 18 months, unless those who have prepared this document are present in the defence? The leader of Simona Kustec Lipicer's largest delegation presented a very interesting thesis in the introduction, saying that the institutions of the European Union are not working effectively. I would now like to ask the distinguished leader of the Group of the Modern Centre Party what she referred to. Has she referred to the Council of the European Union directly to our representatives in the various compositions of the Council of the European Union? Has she referred here to the European Parliament, our representatives in the European Parliament? Has she referred here to the European Commission, that is, to our representative in the European Commission? If this is the official position of the Modern Centre Party, the largest coalition partner, it shall not be reflected in any of this declaration. Nowhere in this declaration is this thesis exposed and at the same time measures to remedy the situation over the next 18 months so that these institutions no longer act ineffectively. On the contrary, this declaration is a very broad wording of everything that we can attribute to the European Union, a little more concrete in individual parts with specific directives, and in some areas very general. We all know that, for example, security is an important challenge and a major problem in the European Union, internal borders are being reintroduced, terrorist attacks are taking place. And now government representatives tell me how to ensure greater security and defence with the following phrases: Slovenia will strive for a more coordinated and effective fight against terrorism. "While Slovenia, as a responsible member of the international community, will continue to cooperate actively, support and join all other initiatives and measures in the fight against terrorism. Slovenia will continue to support the further comprehensive, systematic and strategic development of the common security and defence policy." And so on, and so on over the entire text. Of course, we can agree with such a wording because it is a statement at a declaration level, because these are some general statements, when the representatives of different countries at meetings or in other sacred formations begin a meeting to then formally discuss concrete proposals. This is certainly not what the introductory text says: A fundamental policy direction on the strategic issues with which the Republic of Slovenia will be involved We need answers to the challenges that have emerged today. [[…]] Let me tell you just one answer to the challenge of enlargement policy, where we say in the declaration that the European Commission's wish to consolidate in the next five years is that there will be no further enlargement; we are committed to the continuation of the enlargement process. The Prime Minister of the Government adopted the idea of the President of the largest opposition party in one part on the issue of migration, namely the borders between Macedonia and Greece. And now he's selling it as his idea. So we are putting Macedonia on one big stake – logistics, security, humane, humanitarian and so on. One way is to say: All migrants, stop at the Macedonian border. Where will you find in this declaration that Slovenia, in return for this, will become one of Macedonia's largest advocates in the process of joining the European Union?Oh, my God! Or we are sending migrants well to Macedonia in return; and Macedonia – what, as other countries will handle it. We, who have been putting ourselves at the forefront of the Western Balkans, have been leaving Macedonia in the waiting room since 2005 and doing nothing for our friends in the Western Balkans. You see, this is one of the issues in this declaration that we should work out; and in this case, the declaration would also receive our support. Too bad the Minister for Foreign Affairs didn't hear [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u51	Time's up, Mr. Logar. Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Any of the representatives of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate on the complementary proposal for a declaration. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Joint Left to Part Declaration of the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period January 2016 – June 2017, in the chapter of the European Union's Common Trade Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment and the proposal for a declaration will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Bank of Slovenia in the First Defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u52	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have again decided to table a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act. We are convinced that such a step after amending and supplementing this law is urgently needed for a number of reasons. The fact is that the Slovenian banking system is not stable, that Slovenian taxpayers in the relatively short history of the independent state of Slovenia have been rehabilitated for the second time; last time in 2013 with more than EUR 5 billion. Given the situation and events in the Slovenian banking system in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not rule out the possibility that the need to rehabilitate the banking system by taxpayers will also be necessary in the third. In order to prevent this issue, we have probably tried for the fourth or fifth time to amend and supplement the Act amending the Bank of Slovenia Act, in particular on certain key issues. According to our assessment, this is the reporting of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly. Undoubtedly, Banka Slovenije also informs the general public and the National Assembly with an annual and semi-annual report. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such reporting is not appropriate and that the National Assembly should also have more information than is available to the general public. The law proposes an amendment that the Bank of Slovenia should also inform the National Assembly about confidential information in its reports. The second part of the amendment and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act is mainly aimed at changing the composition of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. We believe that Banka Slovenije is one of the only central banks in the field of the European Union where we have some kind of hybrid management system; or, in other words, that the administration is also its supervisor. We are confident that this change would introduce better and better control over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. Today, for example, the Council of the Bank consists of the so-called 'bank of Slovenia'; in the morning, the Governors and Vice-Governors prepare their proposals, and in the afternoon, they re-sit and confirm these proposals. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such a system is inadequate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that supervision should also be supported by the Court of Auditors. It is unacceptable that the management of the Bank of Slovenia somehow does not let the Court of Auditors control the banking system itself. The fact is that the European Central Bank has its own supervisory system and that it is the European Court of Auditors. The fact is that the European Central Bank has repeatedly reported with various reports to the general public and to the professional public, regardless of the fact that this legislation requires it to do so once a year. The fact is also that we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that Banka Slovenije's leadership should be part of the system of public servants. This is about the officers elected by the National Assembly. As this is the first consideration of this law, we expect the support of the parliamentary groups in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also expect support from the parliamentary groups for one reason: the last two vice-governors were elected by a large majority. Both vice-governors wrote in their programme that Banka Slovenije needs more, better control, change of legislation. For this reason we also expect support for the changes and additions to this Act on Banka Slovenije in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers as crucial that the proposed amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act affect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, as set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. In determining the relationship between Banka Slovenije and the National Assembly, it is necessary to draw from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which gives importance to the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the decisions of the Bank of Slovenia, as it provides that the central bank is independent and directly accountable to the National Assembly. However, the concept of responsibility to the National Assembly cannot be compared with the concept of control over the Bank of Slovenia, which would, in particular, be inconsistent with its institutional independence, which prohibits external interference in its decisions. The proposer proposes to supplement Article 26 of the Bank of Slovenia Act regulating the reporting of Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly and provides that the report of Banka Slovenije should be comprehensive and, if necessary, should also include confidential information and information. The Government considers that the reporting of the Bank of Slovenia to the National Assembly is appropriate, since, in addition to the information covered by the annual report of the Bank of Slovenia, it sends it other information and information on request, so I do not think that any change in this area is necessary. With regard to the information provided by the representatives of the National Assembly on the work of the Bank of Slovenia, the Government estimates that representatives of the National Assembly have the opportunity to obtain information from the Bank of Slovenia since, in accordance with the applicable Bank of Slovenia law, a representative of the National Assembly committee responsible for finance and monetary policy may participate in the meetings of the Board of the Bank of Slovenia. This competence of the committee in terms of obtaining information is actually stronger than the regular reporting to the National Assembly, as proposed by the drafters of the amendment of the law. The draft law provides for a supplement which provides that the coordination of the status of members of the Council of Banka Slovenije with the provisions of the Banka Slovenije Act and the conditions for the performance of the function shall be determined by the Commission to prevent corruption, which shall also establish the incompatibilities of the performance of the function of a member of the Council. In this case, too, the principle of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia must be respected in accordance with the European statutory framework of the European Central Bank. The opinion of the European Central Bank, dated 18 September 2008, was forwarded to the National Assembly. 12. I will not repeat the findings or quote the individual findings of this opinion. In general, the opinion highlights the need to ensure the independence and independence of the central bank. With regard to the proposal for Banka Slovenije to draw up and implement a financial plan, a employment policy and has the means of payment in accordance with the laws and regulations laid down for direct users of the State budget, we believe that this would also constitute an interference with the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. The position of national central banks should enable them to have the resources themselves to meet the objectives of the European System of Central Banks in an appropriate and effective manner. In principle, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal to provide the Court of Auditors with a legal basis for the revision of the Bank of Slovenia, but takes into account the requirements set out in this opinion by the European Central Bank. The scope of audit powers has been coordinated at European level for several years between the European Court of Auditors and the ECB and, once the relevant decisions have been taken at European level, we will transfer them to Slovenian legal arrangements. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for those reasons and on the basis of the opinion delivered by the ECB in this regard, does not support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u56	Madam President, thank you for your opportunity. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act, which we are considering today in the context of the general debate, certainly raises some important questions, for which it is right to find appropriate answers and solutions, since this law, the Bank of Slovenia Act, is the fundamental document for its operation. Acting on the basis of good legal solutions that further strengthen confidence as a national banking regulator in and outside Slovenia, as part of the Eurosystem is responsible for designing and implementing decisions of the Council of the European Central Bank. We are of the opinion that some of the proposed solutions are appropriate and it is therefore reasonable that we should also take account of these changes in the law. Let us see for ourselves the proposal and the solutions offered. Request for more comprehensive reports than Banka Slovenije does and publishes publicly. The proposer would like Banka Slovenije to submit reports to the National Assembly, which could also contain possible confidentiality and would require the closure of the meeting to deal with such reports. They also propose that the reports be considered at least half a year and not more once a year, such as practice. The applicants also wish that, in cases where the Bank of Slovenia identifies the need for State aid in which one of the banks is located, it shall immediately inform the National Assembly, of course, by stating the reasons, the role and responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia’s management, the Custodian, in relation to State aid and Bank of Slovenia’s control measures. Furthermore, the composition of the Council of Banka Slovenije would remain the same as before, the governor and four vice-governors, but the vice-governors would have a maximum of 20% employment at Banka Slovenije. Participation in Council of the Bank of Slovenia meetings. Today, in addition to the members of the Council, the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Minister of Finance are also invited to participate, as is said the opposition. This associate member of the Council would also be without a vote. The following, discharge and reasons for the dismissal of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. It is proposed to amend the procedure and the reasons for the discharge. This would be decided by the National Assembly as new reasons for violating the laws and constitution and for calling on the Court of Auditors to be dissolved. At least 15 Members would be given the initiative to resolve, and they should attach a proposal for evidence of a violation or an audit report. A member of the Council whose resolution is proposed could respond in writing or orally to any reported violations. The members of the Committee would decide by a majority of the members of the Committee on Finance who would be the competent working body. The National Assembly would approve the discharge by a majority of the votes of all Members. Next, the Governor of Banka Slovenije could relieve the director or deputy director of the department for no reason. Next. The Bank of Slovenia should prepare and implement financial plans, employment policy and forgiveness and have the means of payment in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to direct and direct budgetary users. Employees would become public servants subject to the public sector wage system. Next, the proposal also limits the number of mandates to the Governor and other members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Finally, the proposal also provides that the Court of Auditors shall revise the correctness and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia and its supervisory activities. The law also allows the disclosure of confidential bank data to the Court of Auditors. I must certainly stress here that most of the proposed solutions are such that they are likeable, some also respond satisfactorily to the current questions, actions and supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. In all of this, we are obliged to take into account that the Bank of Slovenia and its members are independent in the performance of their duties and are not bound by the Decisions, Positions and Directions of the State or of any authority, nor may they be addressed in accordance with instructions or guidance. From 1 January 2007, the Bank of Slovenia is also a member of the Eurosystem, in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, which must also fully implement in its operation. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that some of the points of the bill can be supported. This, the Court of Auditors' audit, is why we have given the mandate of the Court of Auditors more than once. The implementation of the same principles as are applicable to the public sector: financial and human resources plans, salary scale, anti-corruption clause, participation of representatives of the opposition at the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – we do not really see any reason why this would not be the case – the information of the National Assembly in the context of the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia's work. The bill also contains solutions that we cannot support: the way and reasons for the discharge of the governor or vice-governor. It follows from the proposed text that 15 members of the National Assembly could propose a discharge by providing evidence of a violation of the law and the Constitution. It's not entirely clear what that means. In Slovenia it is only the courts that say they are in violation of the law and the Constitutional Court is the one that says they are in violation of the Constitution, otherwise the sentence of innocence applies. In addition, the independence of the central bank, as defined in the European legal order, must be highlighted here. The Statute of the European System of Central Banks provides that the governors may be dismissed only if they no longer fulfil the conditions or if they have committed a serious breach, with the possibility of bringing the matter before the EU court. Next, the number of possible mandates. In view of the need to repeat the whole procedure from the proposal to the appointment itself at each appointment, we believe that the MPs of the National Assembly have already been given the opportunity not to appoint the Governor or Vice-Governor again, who has not been successful in his work so far as the Governor or Vice-Governor has been. However, a successful person may continue to work, irrespective of the number of mandates. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, as unacceptable amendments to the law can also be eliminated in further adoption procedures with amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u58	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today we are considering a proposal for amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act prepared by the SDS Group for the second time in this mandate. It follows from the bill tabled that this, almost identical proposal, as was tabled on 19. 2. 2015, intervenes in the core act of the central bank only in individual elements, articles of the law. In the SMC Group, we welcome the debate on this subject, since Banka Slovenije is an important institution, since the introduction of the euro by Banka Slovenije, a member of the Eurosystem has been in line with the Treaty establishing the European Community and with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, carrying out the following mission: the implementation of the common monetary policy, the management of the official foreign reserves of the Member States, in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, and support the smooth functioning of payment systems. In the Republic of Slovenia, however, its objective is, inter alia, to pursue financial stability. Only in cases do we mention the individual content of the proposed articles. With regard to the revision of the Bank of Slovenia by the Court of Auditors. This proposal does not follow the opinion of the European Central Bank, nor does the former. Of course, this does not mean that we do not support the SMC Group's intention to revise the Bank of Slovenia by the Court of Auditors. However, we agree with the position of the Government, which doubts the proposed addition of Article 40 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which provides that the Governor of Banka Slovenije could relieve the director or deputy director of the department for no reason, since he believes that the current regime is the most appropriate way to protect both employees, managers and employers, namely Banka Slovenije. This is also followed by the opinion of the European Central Bank. However, it is reasonable to consider whether the system of the internal organisation of the Bank of Slovenia is best for the optimal functioning of the central bank. Of course, we cannot allow the Governor to resolve himself in the proposed manner of his employees. Banka Slovenije acts as a collective body and this is the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. With regard to the transmission of confidential information to the National Assembly, we believe that this area should be regulated in accordance with national rules on the protection of confidential data, as well as the rules governing this area at the level of the European Union, and in accordance with the opinion of the European Central Bank, which the proposed proposal does not fully provide. Of course, we support that the Commission of Inquiry obtains all the necessary material from banks that have been recapitalised. We also cannot agree that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act of 21. Ten. 2015 intervenes in several areas of law that have specific regulatory arrangements and this is reflected in the last articles. Such amendments to individual laws in different areas under one law, which at the same time combines specific temporary legal arrangements in particular areas, have a significant impact on the opacity, uncertainty, inconsistentity of the legal system. The clarity, transparency, certainty and consistency of the legal regime and the legal system are, in general, fundamental elements of the constitutional principle of the rule of law, as enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The parliamentary group of the Modern Centre Party will not support and vote against the proposal on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u60	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! For the second time, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act in order to regulate the operation of the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with the Slovenian legal order, in accordance with the order of the European Central Bank and to ensure its supervision and better and effective functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. In view of the position of the Modern Centre Party not to support this law, the Slovenian Democratic Party is likely to table this law for the third time, fourth, fifth, sixth, because things that are not regulated in Slovenia need to be settled; also in order to ensure the greater independence of the Bank of Slovenia, even in order to ensure the work of the Bank of Slovenia in the context of what it itself sets out in the Bank of Slovenia’s annual report, for example, for 2014, where it speaks or writes, of course, that the Bank of Slovenia must be a cost-effective, organisational and developmental institution, which unfortunately is not today. In addition, Banka Slovenije is the only institution in Slovenia that has no control over institutions in Slovenia. It says that the supervision of the European Central Bank, but, ladies and gentlemen, is the responsibility of the European Central Bank, is part of the European Central Bank and, of course, plays the role of the European Central Bank. It is part of the European Central Bank system as well as the influence of the European Central Bank on the Bank of Slovenia and Slovenia. This requires the supervision of the Republic of Slovenia over the Bank of Slovenia. When Banka Slovenije came to the National Assembly at the end of 2013, together with the Minister of Finance, the then government, and informed the National Assembly that Slovenian taxpayers would pay a total of 3 billion, a further 2 billion, together to pay 5 billion, then the Bank of Slovenia decided to do so in connection with the European Central Bank. She decided to fix the banking system for Slovenian taxpayers by 5 billion. The European Central Bank also affected the decision that Slovenian taxpayers paid through the Bank of Slovenia. For this reason, it is justified to require the National Assembly, on behalf of Slovenian taxpayers, to establish control over the Bank of Slovenia. The European Central Bank orders us to pay 5 billion, and at the same time says no controls. No control over decisions coordinated with the European Central Bank is coordinated between the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank. No, the taxpayers of Slovenia should pay 5 billion, but that is why we will not answer to anyone. No one will be responsible for the usefulness of such decisions, the cost-effectiveness of such decisions, the meaning of such decisions; no, we will not be responsible, nor must we be monitored for the payment of 5 billion by Slovenian taxpayers. We must not be controlled, and so over Banka Slovenije, as the European Central Bank and the blue sky show, which, of course, can be told by taxpayers, is so much and so much to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it works! In this paper we prove that this is not the case in some other countries where the Court of Auditors has the role of supervisor – Germany, France, Sweden, Denmark and, of course, also countries on other continents and also in Austria – and all these countries, except Sweden in this case, Denmark, are in the Eurosystem. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, do you now claim by this opinion of the Government, which concerns the opinion of the European Central Bank, that the Statute of the European Central Bank is taken into account differently in different countries? Does that mean that? If some countries, such as Germany, which has the euro control of the Court of Auditors, have a German Court of Auditors, for example. And if the European Central Bank is also supervised by the European Court of Auditors and there were also speeches when the representative of Slovenia spoke in the European Court of Auditors, in the National Assembly. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, reference to the Statute of the European Central Bank is not justified or to the opinion of the European Central Bank. Representatives of the European Central Bank should probably also be asked at some time how this is and whether the Court of Auditors, and thus the National Assembly, will have control over the Bank of Slovenia, will have an impact on the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, will this also affect European monetary policy? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't believe this! These are excuses, these are excuses, so that these institutions are not controlled or reviewed. What, though, will be less independent if the National Assembly has certain data if it controls the Bank of Slovenia's profitability? What's going to be less independent about this? He's not gonna let himself be influenced by anything because we're just gonna control it. On the other hand, the ECB's decisions through the Bank of Slovenia affect Slovenian taxpayers, to whom we are responsible. It is also possible for a representative of the National Assembly to participate in the world because he is the Secretary of State and that this presence is even stronger than reporting to the National Assembly. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually not the case, because on the basis of this, the National Assembly is not in a position to decide on anything. We have a representative here and let him know. And these are some excuses that have no solid foundation, no solid foundation. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose this law to determine the effectiveness of Banka Slovenije's operations in the following areas, not only in the area of required recapitalisations, which it requires from owners – in Slovenia is the main owner of the country's banks, which therefore directly affects taxpayers – but also in order to determine the cost-effectiveness of the Bank of Slovenia's operations, because in Banka Slovenije there are almost 22 employees per 100,000 inhabitants, in Europe there are slightly more than 14 employees per 100,000 inhabitants. Banka Slovenije, in other words, has more than 400 employees and has increased employment by 10% in the last year in 2014, while the public sector has decreased the number of employees. The Bank of Slovenia has never complied with the so-called ZUJF, has never taken into account not only the laws but has never had to save, if you want, savings. Never! She was always out of the system on behalf of independence, in all areas. And what is wrong with this if Sweden has 4 employees in the bank per 100,000 employees and has its own currency, while the Bank of Slovenia does not have to carry out certain tasks transferred to the European Central Bank because we have the so-called euro or we have the European money. What happened here? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen! Thus, our arguments, the arguments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, are quite justified. According to the Constitution, Banka Slovenije is responsible to the National Assembly, this responsibility is shown in the following to send us an annual report, the part of which is public, to send us certain information that he believes he can send; if he does not want to send them, he hides them behind the Institute of Bank secrecy and does not send them. And that's actually all. And that a representative of the National Assembly may participate – it may mean that he is present there at meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In fact, the National Assembly does not know enough about Banka Slovenije. Otherwise, the Commission on Public Finance Control, the Committee on Finance and so on invite the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia to these meetings, they also come to these meetings, say what they mean, usually questions are unanswered, at least those important ones, and the matter actually ends here. Except when they come to the National Assembly for money and do not come a few times, they came once in the 1990s, early in the 1990s, now in 2013 and then, of course, the National Assembly makes this possible. For this reason, we rightly demand that the Bank of Slovenia's operations and operations be monitored. This is in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, the Court of Auditors, whether it does not wish or does not wish to come to the Bank of Slovenia, regardless of the fact that the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which is part of the National Assembly, has already asked the Court of Auditors to do so several times. They do so in other countries, and we see no reason not to do so in Slovenia. In addition, we propose to arrange the salaries of Banka Slovenije officials in accordance with Slovenian law, which also regulates this for other officials from the President of the Government, the President of the State, the President of the National Assembly and down. Look, we propose that the Governor of Banka Slovenije have the second highest salary by rank, I think the 64th grade is very high, but probably at least once lower than the governor's salary today. Is it such that the Modern Centre Party cannot now support this proposal? Is this now, I shall say, so blasphemous that such a proposal cannot be supported? I think that the President or Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will still have a lower salary than the President of the National Assembly or the same – I don't know, I don't know exactly. Do you believe that the work of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia should be paid at least once again, or at least twice? Look, ladies and gentlemen, these are the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party, some of the proposals that I will talk about. I see no reason to reduce the independence of Banka Slovenije if the Governor of Banka Slovenije has the same salary as, for example, the President of the National Assembly for one class below; for me, he may also have the same salary, the 65th class, we will also make an amendment for this. But if this affects the independence of the Bank of Slovenia now, as the Government says, look, ladies and gentlemen, it is your government! And if this is right — I will not talk about what you are saying, about ethics and morality — then in this country we no longer know what is right. I'm not talking about justice. I'm talking about what's right. Then we don't know anymore, because then the criteria and criteria are crazy. Then we no longer know who is drinking and who is paying and who is running this country; or the ECB, or networks, or perhaps someone else. I only see more and more that it is not ruled by the government of Mira Cerar. That is the problem; that is also the problem with such opinions. Therefore, once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that this law be adopted, that further consideration be given to adopting any proposals that will go in the direction of greater efficiency, prudence, economy, in the stages of the proceedings of the National Assembly, but that this issue should not be closed by saying that you are opposed to this law. You have no arguments, you do not have any substantive arguments! The ECB does not have an opinion on the content of the argument. It should also be aligned with the ECB’s opinion if necessary. We are open and willing to accept your amendments, joint amendments, any amendments, just to make this matter in the state office. We invite you to do so and not to reject the law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u62	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. This is a retrial of the amendment of the law, which really needs to be changed in certain segments, but we do not agree with most of the proposed amendments in the Desus Group, so we will not support it either. With regard to the proposal that a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia should be able to be dismissed by at least 15 Members and that the decision on discharge should be within the competence of the National Assembly, it should be said that such a solution would be the subject of a political assessment. I repeat, political judgement! This seems contrary to the principle of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, as required by the European acquis, and has been expressed several times in its opinions by the European Central Bank. In addition, it is proposed that the draft law amend the Law on the Court of Auditors, the Law on Banking, the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. In the Desus Group, we do not believe that such interference with other laws is in accordance with nomotechnical rules, so we do not support it. On the other hand, it is proposed that what we support in the Desus Group is that the Bank of Slovenia is audited by the Court of Auditors under the law governing the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors would be competent to revise the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia and to revise its supervisory activities. Once again, in the Desus Group we support the decision that the Court of Auditors revises the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia. Some decisions made by Banka Slovenije, such as the payment of unused annual leave for several years ago, however, suggest that the reference to complete independence allows for a party that is causing harm to public finances. Such cases require a clear definition of the concept of the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, which we support, but need to be careful that independence does not become inviolable. In the Desus Group, we constantly receive comments from concerned pensioners who care for every cent of their yet earned pension and, on the other hand, can read about millions who are secretly disappearing. After the euro was taken over by the Bank of Slovenia, it remained primarily the central task of banking supervision, where, according to the deep bank hole, it did not exactly show itself. Even more; after the crisis, banks reduced the number of employees, and Banka Slovenije did not seem to share the same fate. It should also be noted that neither the Government nor the European Central Bank are in principle opposed to the audit by the Court of Auditors, but the proposed solution does not include the establishment of certain safeguards which should be enshrined in the law at the time of such intervention. Let me finish with my next thought. Openness and transparency strengthen credibility, which Banka Slovenije will still need in the context of the current developments regarding the leasing of subordinated bond owners. As has already been said, in the Desus Group we will reject the possibility that the legislative process will continue because we do not agree with most of the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. When discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act, we would like to point out immediately in the introduction that democratic control of independent central banks is a fundamental part of people's trust in the banking system and this trust has been strongly conceived in the past decade for the reason that global, large capital, which has also been laying down its rules since the start of the crisis, has also become a state debt, but has also very clearly pointed to governments and has imposed this responsibility to resolve the financial crisis on governments and private debt. This is the point where people's trust has certainly been extremely conceived, because the burden that has fallen on people is shown in the form of a public debt, which is still one of those elements that, of course, does not release either investment to a large extent or the wages themselves, which are the basic and integral part of the existence of people, and, finally, many times is also an intervention in the health system, the school system and, of course, also in the pension system. We are aware that the independence of central banks is the basis for a stable currency, which is also crucial for growth and employment. The latest financial and monetary changes in the European Union have also brought new regulation and tighter supervision, but again, the question is who controls these supervisors. The European Central Bank is one of those supervisors who actually controls national banks – but who controls the European Central Bank? Here is the question of how many elements of democracy and human responsibility are actually embedded in this system. And how many times do we get the feeling that banking secrecy has become the most secure of all rights guaranteed in Europe? It seems to be over the public interest, over the privacy of communication. In Slovenia, of course, we also follow these warnings from the European Central Bank in the banking system. And that is the question raised by this amendment of the law, whether this system is built in such a way as to establish a transparent business and also a responsibility to people in particular. We therefore support certain solutions, which form an integral part of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act, to be adopted as quickly as possible and, above all, we see here the very importance of allowing Parliament to access information in that part of the banking system that was needed to be resolved with citizens' money. So for the part given by the taxpayers, democratic control should be over bank secrecy. In second place, of course, it also legally allowed the Court of Auditors to revise the operations of the Bank of Slovenia. If, in order to ensure the autonomy of the Slovenian and European Central Banks, the scope of such an audit has to be limited to the scope of the safeguards, it is necessary to define them and to incorporate them into the law. However, we do not imagine that any meaningful regulation of supervision in the Bank of Slovenia without the role of the Court of Auditors could be effective. We believe that the role of the Court of Auditors is a guarantee that the National Assembly can also carry out its task, i.e. control of the Bank of Slovenia. The fact is that this instant reports received by the Bank of Slovenia are written in a form that certainly does not give all the information to Members, in order to be able to make good decisions, prepare themselves for a debate and, last but not least, formulate positions that could lead to, for example, not falling into the financial and economic crisis that we have witnessed in the last period, and to note that many of the funds in Slovenia have been used recklessly and that many cases must therefore be resolved in the courts today. We also believe that the European Central Bank cannot oppose democratic control being carried out in confidence and through the most competent independent supervisory authority such as the Court of Auditors. Banka Slovenija is responsible to the National Assembly after the stop, and we are therefore the only ones called to supervise, but without the information of this supervision you cannot effectively and successfully implement, because it is also an extremely difficult and, of course, specific area of expertise. In this amendment of the law, we are clearing up this very issue of how to get all this information, how to carry out these procedures then, so that we can get effective control. The thoughts we have on this amendment of the law are, to the greatest extent, about whether this system will then focus primarily on trying to interfere with the independence of both the Governor of Banka Slovenije and, of course, the members of the Council of Banka Slovenije. Unfortunately, many times in Slovenia it happens that measures and thinking about names are concentrated, not on content. This has often caused us great problems, since there have been many cases where we have come up with a very serious problem in individual institutions due to ineffective action. Given that Banka Slovenije is the highest regulatory authority in the field of banking, there is an urgent need for caution and, above all, coordination between all actors, which can help us to adopt quality solutions. This is the dilemma which, even in the event of the consideration of this amendment of the law, is extremely present with us and, of course, it would be absolutely necessary for such difficult legal matter to be aligned with the opposition, the coalition, the Court of Auditors and, lastly, the Bank of Slovenia, in order to reach those solutions that could be said that we can take on just all the actors that I have counted, a more responsible attitude towards people. This balance, of course, does not have this novelty either, is welcome, because in fact the opposition is also encouraged to discuss this issue, which is certainly not yet concluded; even though it is noted that, for example, the economic and financial crisis is somewhere in the conclusion that these consequences are not as much as they were before, but are threatening new threats, and we have certainly not yet cleared things up. We believe that this balance between all stakeholders, both between the opposition and the coalition, the Court of Auditors and the Bank of Slovenia, should be achieved as soon as possible. In particular, because the last case of the appointment of the Fiscal Council in law, which, of course, we want to exercise effective control over public spending through financial instruments, which we have also incorporated into the constitution, shows that the Fiscal Council has not actually been appointed, because it has not been coordinated with the opposition, and this is the great disadvantage that has come to the National Assembly, knowing that a whole two-thirds majority must, of course, be obtained. So these are the issues that lead us towards thinking that before the adoption of the Banking Act we really need to achieve coordination between all these stakeholders, to take a quality solution, and that we can then also take responsibility for the role of the National Assembly in monitoring and, of course, also to justify people's confidence that this control is effective and that people also know what their money has been spent on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Our Group is in favour of the basic solutions proposed by the proposal last year, as well as some additions to the current proposal, but first we need to clarify clearly what we can achieve with this law and what we cannot achieve. The applicant states in his explanation that we had to devote more than 5 billion to the rehabilitation of state banks, which would not be necessary if Banka Slovenije were to carry out its supervisory activity. This thesis that the greatest crisis of capitalism since World War II could be avoided if we had better control of the central bank and if the Court of Auditors revised its business is, of course, ridiculous. It is clearly intended to divert attention from the real causes and those responsible for the crisis. The first factor was the global capitalist crisis that began in the United States. Directly as a result of the decline in Slovenian exports, our GDP fell by 8% in 2009. Since 2009, absolutely nothing has happened to protect us from a similar crisis. Other factors are the structural errors of the euro area. The crisis in Slovenia was longer and worse than in Eastern Europe, because we entered the euro area at the worst of times with cheap credit. Interestingly, right-wing people have been always stressing how the economic growth in Yugoslavia was dependent on credit, but they do not want to know anything about the 13 billion credits on which growth was dependent during the first government. However, today the euro area is as dysfunctional as it was before the crisis. Only now can I turn to the third factor and role of the Bank of Slovenia. The scope of the crisis is greater than inevitable, due to the wrong actions of the Janša government, which was working contrary to the agreement with the Bank of Slovenia. For a precise list, see the Bank of Slovenia report on the causes of the capital deficit of the banks in March 2015, only three will be mentioned. Firstly, it was the construction of motorways with Darsa's debt rather than from the budget; the second, the reduction of taxes on high incomes, the abolition of taxes on paid salaries and the reduction of corporate and third income tax, the privatisation of companies owned by Soda and Kad. These are all measures that have increased the amount of money in the economy that has already been overheated. The result was a major structural deficit in the country, the largest in 2008. It is no wonder, therefore, that even the public debt increased during the first Janša government. At the end of 2008, €8.2 billion was owed, i.e. 787 million more than in 2004. This brings us to the role of Banka Slovenije. The Bank of Slovenia should tighten credit conditions and capital requirements. My colleagues from NSI would say that this was not allowed because we are part of the ECB. However, in 2010, Banka Slovenije increased its credit requirements on its own at the wrong time. That's when the credit crunch started, which is still going on. However, I do not believe that the Court of Auditors' audit could prevent this. Perhaps only some Taiwanese loans to church financial holding companies Zvon One and Zvon Two, construction companies, Bavčar's Istrabenz and so on could be prevented. Prof. Prašnikar estimates that from 13 billion there were 1.7 billion, the rest went to basic activity and real estate. In short, about 15% of the loans could be due to poor supervision. Now that we are clear what this law will not achieve, we can assess what it can accomplish. We are in the United Left all the time in the position that the Court of Auditors is already competent to revise the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. The purpose of such an audit would be to investigate the measures taken to rehabilitate banks. Two weeks ago, an opinion of the European Advocate was published concerning the deletion of small shareholders in Slovenian banks. It follows from this opinion that there was no European legal basis for decommissioning. It also confirms that the valuation at the liquidation value, with which NLB’s overnight capital was reduced from plus 824 million to minus 1.5 billion, was unjustified. However, we know from earlier that the assumptions of this valuation were wrong, given that the difference between valuations by two methods was as much as 1.5 billion or 45 percentage points. In Spain, where such reviews were carried out one year earlier, there was virtually no difference. I will not give any other suspicious details, the balance sheet is clear – we have banks that have too much capital and will now be privatised at a price lower than book value. This should be the last alarm to stop privatisation in the banking sector. This is certainly a school case of a problem for which the Court of Auditors exists. And if the Esdees law is to be supported, so that the Court of Auditors hopes to investigate this, of course we will support it. If I understand the Government's position correctly, the Government also supports certain powers of the Court of Auditors. I am surprised, however, that the government and the coalition have stopped working on the Systemic Investigation Act, which would also explore the criminal aspect of the rehabilitation of banks and projects such as TES 6, which probably does not correspond to coalition partners. Finally, I need to identify up to some new solutions that have not yet been identified in last year's bill. We support the proposal to set wages in Banka Slovenije as well as in the other public sector, including the Governor and Vice-Governors. We also support the proposal that the Bank of Slovenia should draw up a financial and human resources plan, like all other bodies. We support this because Banka Slovenije cannot be a country in the country. Every public authority in the last instance is responsible to citizens and must justify the purposeful use of funds. This is not an intervention in autonomy or if someone demands such autonomy for Banka Slovenije, we reject it. If I leave behind the objectives and ideological assumptions of this proposal, the balance of good and bad solutions is certainly positive. Without reservation, I can admit that the proposal has improved in these 12 months. In fact, in the second reading, the law could be fully rectified by deleting disputed solutions. We discussed problematic solutions when this novel was first submitted, so I will not repeat everything. We still agree with the idea that a representative of the opposition would participate in the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In principle, we also reject the idea of sitting in the supervisory board of the Slovenian Forest Company or any similar company. The company must be supervised by the state's professional representatives and employees' representatives; of course, political parties have a completely different role to play in this system. But I need to point out one more, perhaps even more essential factor. Contrary to the coalition, the opposition is a random group that does not have its coalition agreement and its coordination. It will be necessary to get used to the fact that after the entry of the United Left into Parliament we no longer have only a coalition and opposition, but also a third factor, a counter-systemic party. So on the one hand, the regime block, these are the parties representing the interests of the political class. They are then divided into the right and quasi-left, which are alternately in the opposition. There is now an anti-systemic party in Parliament that has significantly less in common with the right opposition than the right-wing opposition with the coalition itself. Let me mention just a few key points: support for capitalist regulation at all costs, support for the European Union and the euro area at all costs, support for European immigration policy at all costs, support for aggressive US and NATO foreign policy at all costs. That is why we reject the idea of being represented in the Council of Banka Slovenije, in the supervisory council of the new Slovenian Forest company or elsewhere by a representative of the opposition. There is no person in Slovenia who could represent the United Left and the SDS and the NSI at the same time, and that is not necessary. The precise conditions under which members of the National Assembly or members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances may have access to the necessary data for the exercise of appropriate parliamentary supervision should be laid down. In this way, no party will have a monopoly on information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me tell everyone who is following us that we are still in the process of considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act, EPA 825-VII. Since the predecessor abused the rules of procedure, allow me to reply with only one sentence: if the Republic of Slovenia did not open the highway on 14 August 2008 and connect Slovenia with Hungary, we would not have this highway today, so I suggest that the United Left goes to Pomurje and says that they are guilty because they/we got a highway for some strange financial situation in this country. And if it goes the way the United Left thinks, then for a long, long time there won't be a 2nd track. In accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Banka Slovenije Act, a central institution which is responsible for the supervision of the banking system. In Novi Slovenije we have repeatedly stressed that in the past Banka Slovenije has not performed its supervisory functions and this has resulted in the formation of a bank hole, I am mainly talking about Banka Slovenije in the past. The existence of such a situation has also been greatly assisted by a lack of legislation regulating the status and competences of the Bank of Slovenia, mainly in terms of greater responsibility for the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. After the current Act on Banka Slovenije, neither the Governor nor the Vice-Governors can be called to account either for illegal work or not for serious infringements or omissions of their duties or for this reason, they cannot be relieved of their functions prematurely. We believe that the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are everyone, and especially the official in the highest functions is responsible for the legitimate and proper performance of his work or function, and for this must not only be prescribed, but also discharge from functions for the illegal performance of his function. Otherwise, we can count on a repetition of the practice when the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia – that is, the governors and vice-governors – mislead us, Members and the Slovenian public in their annual reports and oral explanations. Let us recall the claim of former Governor Mark Kranjc and Vice-Governors that we have a sound and reliable banking system and that there are no grounds for concern. And we Members had to believe in such reports from the Bank of Slovenia, of course, because we do not have the possibility to verify the reality of such reports due to the Institute of Banking Confidentiality. Of course, no member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia is ever and will never be responsible for such fraud to the public and Members, as there is no legal basis for this. Does the existence of such a supervisor make sense at all? And what is the possibility of recapitalising Slovenian state-owned banks and, of course, others? At a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on 26 February this year, the Governor of Banka Slovenije explained in a debate on the situation in our banking system that, at the time of the recapitalisation of banks in 2013, the situation of poor loans was between EUR 11 and 12 billion, more than the total annual state budget. The current situation of poor loans in our mostly state banks is still nearly €6 billion. EUR 6 billion, although the Bank's debt management company has been set up to manage bad loans and banks have had the opportunity to clear their balance sheets and transfer all bad claims to the so-called bad bank. Why didn't they do it? This is also a question for the Bank of Slovenia, and I expect it to take all the necessary measures that it has available under the Banking Act to avoid a new bank hole and that the recapitalisation of banks with tax money will no longer be repeated in any form. That is why we support the solutions whereby the Court of Auditors will be responsible for reviewing the Bank of Slovenia's efficiency and economic performance, and also for proposing the discharge of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia if serious infringements are found. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the draft law in the first reading, as we believe that the area of responsibility of supervisors over the banking system in our legislation is insufficiently regulated and we will support amendments to this law in further consideration, which will follow the opinion of the European Central Bank on this bill. The European Central Bank has forwarded a broad opinion on the content of the law and has commented on some of the legal solutions that will, as it is said, have to be taken into account by amending the basic text of the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! The stabilisation of the banking system is certainly not completed in Slovenia. With the recapitalisation of banks in the Slovenian space, we have only taken the first step. This was a major financial blow for all Slovenian taxpayers. Let me just remind you that we have recapitalised or received State aid from the European Commission to the New Ljubljana Bank of €1.55 billion. However, in a letter addressed to Slovenia by the European Commission when it approved this State aid, this document has the number 33229 and has the date of 18 December 2013, Slovenia also had to adopt an entire catalogue of commitments after this document. One of these commitments is that the Nova Ljubljanska banka must be by the end of next year, it is said, by 31. 12. 2017 privatize. This is a major task, a difficult task for those in charge, if I may say so, of this privatisation process, i.e. for SDH. We talked a lot this morning at a meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs in the context of the consideration of the report on the country of Slovenia 2016, which was prepared by the European Commission, and we also talked a lot about measures for the stability of the Slovenian banking system. Of course, the banking system needs extremely good supervision. I already said in my position that the supervisor of Banka Slovenije did not play in the past, unfortunately she did not play her role. We all know this, we have had countless discussions on this subject and we must learn something from this. We cannot and must no longer allow the need to recapitalise or, to say the least, the need to patch a bank hole. The Governor of Banka Slovenije talked about the amount of about €6 billion of bad credits in the Slovenian banking system, and these 6 billion are mainly unfortunately being transferred to state-owned banks. Of course in the past, you might say in the ancient past, someone would say in 1991, 1992, we made a mistake that we had not privatized the Slovenian banking system at the time, so we are now in a society of exotic countries where we have a similar situation as in Slovenia, that the largest banks are state-owned. None of these countries, except Slovenia, are from the European Union, but Ethiopia, Kenya, Cuba, Syria, Libya and so on and so on and we are in this society. This, if you don't believe, ask the next meeting of the Governor of Banka Slovenije, which I regret many times when we meet with our colleagues at the ECB and ask him, no governor, but Boštjan, when will you privatise state banks. But look, we're probably going to have a problem with the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. I am generously warning the Government and, of course, the coalition that has adopted the State Investment Management Strategy. Let me remind you that you wrote there that the country will have a 25% equity share plus one share in the New Ljubljana Bank, we can also call it a gold share. I think there will be a big problem here if someone comes to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Let us look at the restriction on the free movement of capital from the point of view of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Perhaps before that, once again: the Government's Proposal for a Decree on the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy of 24 May 2015 on the privatisation of certain companies provides for the preservation of a state-owned share of 25 % plus 1 share. NLB is in this group of economic operators. Some of these companies are also subject to a ban on the concentration of private ownership over the share of the State or the obligation of the Slovenian State holding company to regulate such a prohibition before any use of these capital investments in the company's statutes. This matter is at our discretion controversial. In the implementation of the proposed ban, among other things, the rules of the internal market of the European Union should be taken into account, namely the prohibition on the free movement of capital. See, here is the problem: the free movement of capital is one of the very important freedoms of the European Union. Like, say, free movement of people and goods. And here, I'm afraid we're gonna have a problem. Why? The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which Slovenia has taken over, signed, ratified, prohibited - underlining, prohibits - all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries. On the basis of this prohibition, the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, in cases of potential infringements of the prohibition on the free movement of capital, has decided in disputes between the European Commission and a Member State, has in the past addressed certain measures taken by Member States during privatisation. It was measures by which Member States, despite privatisation, tried to ensure increased influence in strategically important companies, using so-called gold shares. That's our understanding, because we do a lot of banking work, privatisation. I'm not going to talk about the frame-up right now. It's not dark today. But you could be. Look, we're not just some loose cannon. We are a country, we are a Member State of the European Union, and we have already repeated a hundred times when we are looking at the Declaration on Foreign Policy, we have said that the fundamental political and value foundation of the Republic of Slovenia is our membership in the European Union, which has institutions; yes, the Court of Justice of the European Union, which monitors how Member States respect the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in particular. Here, I don't know, I may get an answer to this question today, maybe if we were wrong in these respects, but I wouldn't be discussing this today if the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union hadn't remained. And if the Court of Justice of the European Union, a serious institution, has already decided this way at least once, I simply say that the gold stock in the country is a problem, then it is likely that this will be the same in the case of Slovenia, which, of course, I wish to do well, I want us to respect our own and also European acts or legislation first. It makes sense, when I studied these things, to say the logical thing is that the gold stock is not called a free gold share. That's not just one voice. That's more than that. You can block anything with that. The same thing you wrote down in the strategy to prevent the concentration of private capital over the shares of the country – this is serious! But, in fact, it's no big deal. The strategy can be changed. If we get married together, we invite the government to do so within a week. The debate on the supervision of the banking system is very important, so we welcome the efforts made by our colleagues in the SDS with this amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Act. After they have submitted it, we have also received the opinion of the European Central Bank and the authors themselves, if I may say so, have indicated their willingness to improve this text in order to further optimize it in line with the opinion of the European Central Bank. No debate, no hour of debate is over if we all have the same focus together, let's share the same goal of strengthening control over the banking system. Ladies and gentlemen, too many ugly things have happened to us, that now taxpayers are paying for the work of some who have been very good-looking, as they say, giving credit to many. And it's not for buying a car, it's a couple of times 40 million, a couple times 30 million, and so on. There are instances in the sky where someone, some company, has asked to borrow from a bank that is foreign owned, but here, of course, has its own branch office. When analysts there studied that their business plan did not drink water and rejected them in their application for credit approval, the same borrower received 40 million in a few days at the state bank. A sky-creating case! And that was happening, not just once, because if you did once, the bank hole would be 40 million, and now it's too dramatic, almost I don't hope to repeat that number anymore. At the investigative commission in the previous term, when we wanted to reach responsible people, to get names and surnames, I practically asked at each hearing the interrogator what he was assessing, whether he was assessing that a new bank hole might already be emerging – no one was willing to answer, and the silence said everything. I hope that now, in this commission of inquiry investigating irregularities in the banking system run by colleague Anže Logar, we will at least partially satisfy our taxpayers, who – and I am sure you too – stop us on the road and tell us how difficult it is to live with shamefully low pensions, and they tell us, take those who took us. That is why I have recently given the Government an initiative, which, last November 2014, also the President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, promised that this government would do its utmost to return as much of the money as possible to the money that has been "pulled" elsewhere, which has been pumped into some tax havens and is now perhaps slowly returning to buy those companies that are on their knees. But following the example of some countries, such as Germany, some of this money could be recovered, at least for one annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia, for at least 10 billion, I am sure. Because there was no control or the networks were so connected, that, of course, in other words, there was no control because he was protecting each other. Those who are experts in these matters, i.e. for the transfer of money to the tax havens, have found, with some methodology, that between €50 billion and €75 billion were overrun from Slovenia. It's a fantastic number! Can you imagine if at least half of them got back! Probably never. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Get Mrs. Urska Ban ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you. Let me perform for the introduction the thought that the predecessor gave. Indeed, with regard to the parliamentary investigation that his wish is as a member and probably others, we will at least partially meet the expectations of taxpayers regarding the results of this parliamentary investigation. Indeed, this part is largely dependent on the judicial branch of power, on a judge, Deshe Cenner, who has now become the main defender of the closed system of non-direction of internal banking crime data. The fact that one branch of government is blocking another branch of power in the investigation of crime is, in some ways, a crime that is per se and is probably only possible in Slovenia. But this will be a story that is likely to be brought before the Constitutional Court sooner or later in the hope that this mandate will be long enough for the Constitutional Court to decide on this in due time. As regards the proposal to amend legislation or the legal basis defining the work of the Bank of Slovenia. See, the Slovenian Democratic Parties have tried several times with their proposals to facilitate the investigation of banking crime while at the same time improving supervision of the operation of the banking regulator. With one purpose; that is, past actions and developments have shown that the supervision so far did not meet the requirements that it has offered or the events that have taken place in the banking area. Now the answer or the justification for this is very simple, look at the bank hole that was created in Slovenia and calculate how much you had to pay yourself to cover this hole. I myself would focus on these very simple solutions, three or four of the solutions contained in this proposal, but I think it is a very important solution. The first is the proposal, i.e. Article 1 – amendment to Article 26 concerning the reporting of the Bank of Slovenia. In fact, a regular, protruding reporting of the situation in the banking system through the provision of relevant information to an institution in itself constitutes a new aspect in the work process and the one to report forces it to take a more serious approach to the performance of its supervisory function. If the administration does not need to report to the supervisory board, it has scissors and linen in its hands, the possibility of embezzlement or abuse of position is significantly greater than if there is still a supervisory council. However, if we have a supervisory board which, as the past has shown in Slovenia, is overly linked with the administration and the supervisory board does not provide adequate control and various criminal offences occur. And if we have another institution that exercises control over this, this ensures greater transparency and thus compels the one who has primary oversight to work harder to control it. Now, why is the control of the National Assembly so important? If you are in corporate governance, I don't know, the administration and the owner who sets up the supervisory board, and, say, the specific cases of the two Forum 21 banks, where the administration and the supervisory councils were also owned, networked and interconnected, in fact, they are not subject to real control. They're the board of directors and the board of directors. In the case of the National Assembly, however, this cannot happen. First, because we have general elections, where the will of taxpayers and taxpayers is expressed, because the composition always changes because coalitions change and it is impossible to influence who will sit in the National Assembly. Therefore, this additional control, which is the responsibility of reporting Banka Slovenije twice a year in the National Assembly, is detailed reporting, with relevant also confidential information, the one that is urgently needed by the security guard, which allows Slovenia to enter a normal system, some normal banking system and some normal banking control system. In 20 years, this step may not be necessary, but at this time, this decision is necessary in this space, and if it were to occur during a period of exceptional credit growth, when the credit portfolio was growing at 40%, believe that when discussed in the National Assembly, there would be more initiatives or more ideas to pull the hand brake. Legislators would also have been faced with this problem earlier, and if they had accepted this responsibility, they might have proposed a normative basis that is not. And it is an aspect of the National Assembly, i.e. the one that is amending the legislation, and the involvement of the legislator in this supervisory process, one of the very high-quality guardians in the provision of banking supervision. We also have Article 4 where we propose that the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances also sit at Council meetings. The coalition gets upset a lot, you talk about what you're dealing with on this committee, why you're talking about it. The solution is very simple – confirm the amendment we are proposing, and the Commission will have direct information on this and perhaps the requirement to convene emergency meetings will be significantly reduced, because in due time this information will already come to an appropriate length and where the presence of the representative of the legislative branch of the Bank of Slovenia may also force a more responsible, faster and more prompt operation. I don't know, I guess. But since there was no such control now, it is one of the relatively good and very easy possibilities of doing so. Finally, the legislator provided for in the SDH Act and in this regard allowed Parliament to have an insight into the situation at the Slovenian State Holding. Let me move on to Article 8, paragraph 5 so that the Court of Auditors can issue an appeal for the discharge of the Governor. We have been talking for a long time in the National Assembly about how to exercise control in Banka Slovenije. For a long time, the general position of the coalition was to see, Banka Slovenije is independent, let's leave them, the Court of Auditors has nothing to do there. [[…]] But remember, one similar story we also had in controlling the operation of, say, the New Ljubljana Bank, and the National Assembly managed this consensus, so that it went beyond the border of the coalition and the opposition, and supported this opportunity for the Court of Auditors to investigate the contracts and operations of the New Ljubljana Bank. The Court of Auditors is an independent institution, we appoint a President here in the National Assembly, and then the Court of Auditors is completely autonomous in deciding what to investigate. We all agree that if control of the banking system were to be as expected, the bank hole would not have occurred or that the dimension of this bank hole or the recapitalisation requirements would have been significantly smaller. If the legislator finds out about this, it is likely that the legislator is looking for ways to avoid such situations in the future. Since it is stated in the rules of the European Central Bank that those appointing the Governor must not exercise direct control or influence, the institution which can do so shall be the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall have all the knowledge, competence and ability to carry out this control. If you have read the ECB's opinion carefully, it does not object. I hardly understand – I hope that there is no opposition, although the government opposes everything the opposition proposes – there is no reason that the coalition MPs in the National Assembly would not listen to this idea and would not allow that further control of the functioning of the central bank be ensured, because at the end of the day when we paid, we paid both those in opposition lines and those in coalition lines. The shortest draw, as you know, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who do not even deal with it, who have their own lives, still had to pay for the questions of those who played with bank money. Therefore, this decision to have the Court of Auditors exercise this supervision is welcome and, in my opinion, necessary in order to ensure an appropriate environment, which will, I will say, be unfriendly to bank fraud. Our purpose and our reason is to create an environment that will hinder opportunities and opportunities for banking crime. Let me also point out Article 12, which speaks of the obligation to protect confidential data in banks and savings banks that have requested State aid or measures under the ZUKSB. Look, say, Iceland, which has done and has already completed such an investigation into banking crime, the identification of liability. On condition that the then Prime Minister was also convicted, all bank managers, the three main banks that had caused the hole, were incarcerated from 3 to 5 years. The investigation commission involved 48 specialised professions or individuals from judges, prosecutors, investigators, criminals, forensics and so on and their documentation, which was linked to the creation of their bank hole, lost the status of bank secrecy, so the investigation was also significantly easier, significantly easier to detect and in this respect Slovenia is captivating behind. We have a very expensive banking practice, but the documents that point to the development of this bank hole still bear the mark of banking secrecy and a system where a judge, Desha Cener, can still block the work of the commission of inquiry and as evidenced by a letter from the National Investigation Office to the Commission of Inquiry, where the involvement of individual banks in providing this documentation is clearly sub-dimensioned or not in the direction of detecting all relevant data to identify responsibility, but, to the extent possible, I will be very diplomatic, limited assistance in obtaining these documents to properly detect banking crime. Therefore, our opinion is very simple. If we have already paid to cover banking crime, if we have paid a fair price, we have at least the right to see what we have paid. We have the right to access these documents. We bought those documents. If we bought these documents from our own pocket, Janez Novak, a taxpayer, has the right to look at these documents. From this point of view, it is also best to ensure that similar fraud and misuse of banking will no longer occur. Because then every banker and every entrepreneur who can or can not be an entrepreneur, the director of a state-owned enterprise or a Taiwanese company will think twice about calling the president or a member of the board and ordering him a credit for 40 million because he will know that this will be written down somewhere. And if there is a breakdown of the system, as was the case in 2013, that this name will then come out, and that his neighbour will also see it, and that his business partners will also see it, and that criminals will have no difficulty in accessing these materials. Therefore, in terms of transparency of the use of taxpayers' money, it was a matter of spending taxpayers' money, and it was very important that this transparency be ensured also by disclosing all these documents that remained from the business of this internal and external banking crime. If you have carefully read the ECB’s opinion, it is significantly less unfavorable than perhaps the second or the previous situation. Bankers, especially central bankers, are by nature very, I'll say, conservative people – but I don't mean this in any way politically or poorly, but in this direction to protect their virtues, which is normal. Therefore, the text of the European Central Bank should also be read among the lines. In fact, it does not reject our proposal in a number of proposals, but simply adds that it would probably be worth further explaining or additionally writing or adding an additional fuse. Therefore, I do not understand why the Government is categorically opposed if even the European Central Bank, aware of the problems in our banking system, now aware of the problems it has had with us, clearly believes that certain changes need to be implemented. In this respect, I join Mr Shirtzl's appeal: the coalition or coalition Members do not categorically reject this proposal. Consider, perhaps suggest your solutions, but keep in mind the desire that the Bank of Slovenia, for the benefit of the Bank of Slovenia and for the well-being of taxpayers, ensure adequate control, which will not interfere with its integrity or competence, while at the same time allowing adequate, independent control that the Bank of Slovenia will act differently in the future, as it has done in the past. If we have done this lesson in the appointment of vice-governors, where a general rule has been established that those who were associated with the time of the bank hole do not receive reelection for the vice-governors, it is likely that it is prudent to consider changing the legal basis as well. Because you know, if you repeat the same story by the same means, it's hard to get a different result. Therefore, if we have said yes in the case of a staff meeting, let us say that in the case of a regular session and react, as a well-known legislator must react, that is to say, to adapt legislation that will draw lessons from past bad practices and establish a regulatory framework that will allow for independent functioning while ensuring adequate supervision. In my view, this proposal is valid and responds to all these dilemmas that I have highlighted and offers solutions that are feasible and that are, say, adjusted in future readings in accordance with the normative basis of the European Central Bank. My proposal is that the coalition Members, as an independent branch of government, no matter what the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, support and put legislation into the follow-up legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Get ready, mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Certainly today's topic we are discussing, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act is extremely important and I support it. Apparently, it's not that interesting, but despite everything. We discussed this topic in this National Assembly, both in plenary sessions and at parliamentary working bodies meetings, on topics that touched the banks of Slovenia in several places. That is why I will not repeat everything today, but I will define myself to the solutions proposed by the bill of proposer, and certainly to these changes or proposals, as I do not categorically reject. First, I might consider Banka Slovenije as an institution. The Bank of Slovenia is the central Bank of the Republic of Slovenia and is a legal person of public law established by law in 1991 and is independent and accountable to the National Assembly. This is stated in Article 152 of the Constitution. The Bank of Slovenia is truly independent and independent in the performance of its tasks, it is said that its functioning must not be affected by political or any other partial interests, and it is often emphasized, even today we have heard several times, precisely this independence of the central bank, but as an institution, as I have already said, is also responsible to citizens and their elected representatives, Parliament says. It is therefore right that we are here today to discuss how the Central Bank, our Bank of Slovenia, is responsible to us. In this definition of the relationship between Banka Slovenije and the National Assembly, as I have already said, it is necessary to proceed from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which already gives meaning to the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, and this responsibility is based on the arrangement that the National Assembly is also the one who appoints the Governor and the Vice-Governor. The question is how to further explain the concept of responsibility and whether to compare it with the concept of control over the Bank of Slovenia, which, in particular, could be incompatible with its institutional independence, which prohibits any external interference in its decisions. Thus, this institutional independence of the central bank, which is prescribed by the legal order, means that the Bank of Slovenia is not legally bound by the decisions of the positions and instructions of the state or any authority, nor should they address them in accordance with instructions or guidelines. And here, in principle, if this is signed by law, with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank, I don't know what it is that, alone as President of the Committee on Finance and Minister, which we are in some of the roles that we are policy, we can work at Council of the Bank of Slovenia meetings if this is expressly prohibited by the Statute. The very independence of the Bank of Slovenia can be discussed not only in the light of our Parliament, but also of the entire European system. This means how independent and independent Banka Slovenije is today. As from 1 January 2007, it is in line with the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and the Bank of Slovenia is also a member of the Eurosystem, which forms and implements the decisions of the Council of the European Central Bank. Thus, the Bank of Slovenia is a member of the Eurosystem, carrying out its mission and tasks within the framework of the Council of the European Central Bank, composed of all the governors of the national central banks of the euro area and members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank. The Bank of Slovenia also acts as a member of the European System of Central Banks, composed of the European Central Bank and the national central banks of all Member States of the European Community. Representatives of the Bank of Slovenia are also members of the European Central Bank. The basic function of the committees of the European Central Bank and the fundamental function of these committees is to advise the Council of the European Central Bank. Banka Slovenije also participates in the European Systemic Risk Committee, which was established in 2010. This committee is part of the European financial surveillance system and is intended to monitor the EU financial system. All financial market supervisors are also a member of the Board, as is the Governor of Banka Slovenije. With the establishment of the European Systemic Risk Committee and the adoption of laws on macroprudential supervision of the financial system at the end of 2013, Banka Slovenije also assumed the role of the Secretariat of the Financial Stability Committee of Slovenia, composed of representatives of Banka Slovenije, AZN and ATVP and the Ministry of Finance. With effect from 15 October 2014, the Council Regulation of the EU transferred the specific tasks of the credit institution prudential control policy to the European Central Bank, which took over the supervisory powers in November 2014, a year after the entry into force of the Regulation. The competent supervisory authority of Slovenia is Banka Slovenije. This transferred part of the supervisory mandate of the Systemic Important Banks to this Single Supervisory Mechanism and, of course, required the intensive and serious involvement of the Bank of Slovenia. For all this reason, the Bank of Slovenia must both respect the provisions of the Treaty establishing the EU and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia Act in relations with national and European authorities. These contracts and statutes must be fully implemented by Banka Slovenije in its operation. And I am now, in the opinion of the European Central Bank, on the proposal of this law, proposed by the proposer. Before any amendment to national legislation, national authorities, including the legislator, are obliged to consult the European Central Bank on draft legislation falling within the scope of the competence of the European Central Bank. This duty stems from the Article of the Treaty establishing the European Community and its non-compliance could lead to proceedings for breach of the Treaty before the Court of Justice of the European Community. A national regulation which would be adopted in contravention of the ECB's opinion or which would have been adopted in breach of its procedural requirements would have been inapplicable. This is also illustrated by the case law. And the ECB's view on the adoption of this regulation, in a few points, points out certain solutions that are not in line with the legal order and are proposed by this law, or that it is referring to what Mr Logar has already said that these provisions should be supplemented, implemented or amended. In this light, it is also necessary to assess the appropriateness of the individual solutions proposed by the proposer. As legislator, we must be aware that the legal solutions should be in line with the requirements laid down by the Treaty establishing the EU, the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank, as well as the guidance set out in its opinions by the European Central Bank. But well, despite everything I have said, Banka Slovenije is responsible to the National Assembly, it is his duty to report on all the activities that I have said in all the functions I have spoken. As I said in the introduction, we had several meetings in this mandate, where the representatives of Banka Slovenije explained their decisions to us and, on the basis of the decisions taken in Parliament, also provided specific documentation and, in accordance with the Banka Slovenije Banka must report at least twice a year to the National Assembly. In addition to this obligation, at our meetings we have adopted a number of conclusions after further reporting which, as I said, the Bank of Slovenia has also carried out. The Bank of Slovenia Act prescribes this minimum duty, but we may, on the basis of the decisions we take, require further clarifications, additional information, including regarding potential budgetary exposure, with all the issues that the competent working body may also adopt as a decision, and this requires the Government or the Bank of Slovenia to do so. This proposal, which we are considering today, is addressing those key topics that we have also discussed at the meetings of the working body during this term, and I think they are a very appropriate basis for today's debate. That way, I will now also touch the four key points that I see, which is addressed by the proposer. This is the first time, the management and supervision of the Bank of Slovenia and the reporting of its work, as discussed in Articles 1 to 11. Then the second time, disclosure of bank data. This is the fourth part of the first article, the fourth paragraph and the twelfth paragraph. Then the third time, the revision of the Bank of Slovenia, paragraphs 13-15, and the fourth time, including the award of leadership or the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, are referred to in Articles 16 and 17 of the proposed law. Article 26, paragraph 1, of the amendment proposed, should be supplemented by the Bank of Slovenia's reporting without delay if the bank needs State aid. In principle, I think the change is appropriate, as it is precisely with the latest decrees on the recapitalisation of state banks as well as some private banks of Banka Slovenije that it has made a major contribution to the state budget. It is appropriate to inform the National Assembly of these necessary recapitalisations as the body to which the Bank of Slovenia is responsible and also accepts all documents relating to the use of budgetary resources and also supervises the use of these funds. If I touch on the ECB's opinion in this point, this opinion on the amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act focuses on this issue, according to my assessment; it is said that disclosure of confidential data relating both to data from Banka Slovenije's control carried out and to statistical information from Banka Slovenije. The ECB stresses that the possible exchange of such information and information should be in accordance with EU rules governing such exchange and the protection of business secrets. The European Central Bank also stresses in several places that confidential information can only be exchanged if it is necessary to carry out the tasks of the authority receiving that information. It also points out that, with regard to confidential supervisory information, EU law provides for a framework within which such information can be exchanged. In this regard, the European Central Bank notes that solutions in the proposed amendment, which provide for an exception to such requirements for the protection of confidential information, raise concerns from the point of view of a number of provisions of EU law. While the European Central Bank explains that, on the basis of a directive governing the area concerned, it is possible to disclose certain information relating to the prudential supervision of institutions, namely the authorities with investigative powers, but such disclosures also need to take into account certain restrictions, such as the clearly defined mandate of the authority receiving such information, and the condition that the information required must be strictly necessary to fulfil such a mandate. Consequently, the ECB notes that EU rules relating to the exchange of information and business secrets do not provide a legal basis for disclosing confidential information to the National Assembly as such. This is how I understand this, so that this article should probably be harmonised and supplemented, as stated in the ECB's opinion. Then, paragraph 30 and paragraph 2 of the proposal of the novel should be amended in the direction that the Bank of Slovenia should employ only the Governor and not the Vice-Governors. Nor should the Governor be President of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Article 4 of the amendment also provides for an amendment to the Council of the Bank of Slovenia meeting to be extended by a representative of the National Assembly with the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. If I also look at this point of view by the ECB, this points out that the Governor of the National Central Bank is granted a special status due to his role as a member of the Council of the European Central Bank, that this special status should be fully respected, which has also led to the practice of the national central banks, by which the Governor is treated as the first among the same, where decisions are taken as a college decision-making body on national central banks. And with the provision that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia should not be the President of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, this proposal departs from this. As I have already said, the draft law is unclear as to the nature of the powers of the new President of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and the distribution of powers between the other members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia and, on the other hand, the governors. Then, paragraphs 5 and 6, that the governor or vice-governor may be appointed no more than twice may be appropriate, but in the National Assembly, we have the possibility that if we assess that the Governor does not do his job, as we should or should consider him to be a failure, we should not choose him again because we have this jurisdiction. Article 7 of the draft law, where the Commission is to prevent corruption in determining the incompatibility of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, may, in my view, be appropriate and, of course, this provision should also be supplemented in accordance with the opinion of the European Central Bank. Article 8 of the bill then goes on to refer to the dismissal of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Once again, in my opinion, the procedure can be properly defined here, but the question is whether 15 Members may not be too low a number that would allow abuse and certain adjustments. Otherwise, this whole change is inconsistent with the current internal organisation of Banka Slovenije, where the vice-governors are no longer responsible for individual areas, but are the executive directors responsible. Otherwise, in previous opinions, the ECB has already made a positive statement on discharge procedures, where the finding of a violation of the law is within the jurisdiction of the courts. It is said that this proposal, however, confers on the National Assembly the power to determine infringements. The purpose of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks is to prevent the Government or Parliament from making a discretionary decision on the reasons for the discharge of the Governor. Therefore, this provision should also be aligned with the Statute of the European Central Bank or this opinion, which I have already mentioned several times. Then, Article 10 gives the Governor additional rights, which, in my opinion, interferes with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The proposal, in my opinion, is not appropriate because it is a classic decision of the management of the organisation, but not only in the hands of the Governor, but rather in the hands of the Governor, it is taken by classical decision-making, i.e. by voting in the world by a majority of votes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Bank of Slovenia. Now for a few words about the audit. The audit of Banka Slovenije in terms of legality, prudence and economy is also, in my opinion, absolutely necessary and meaningful. I support it, and as some speakers have already said before me, the practice is also in some other European countries. Here I have another question about the role of internal audit in the Bank of Slovenia and who is to be reported on the findings. So what has been achieved on these recommendations of the internal audit. The fact is that the revision of legality, prudence and economy is in the first domain of the internal audit, and then the Court of Auditors becomes an external judge. Here I also wonder if the employees of Banka Slovenije present to the Governor the conclusions of the internal audit, it is said, about some mistakes, irregularities that he himself could have caused by his work. Nor is there any control over this, it is said, the audit is always in the domain of supervisors, it is said that we might even be able to get acquainted with these reports. The European Central Bank notes in this area that the Court of Auditors is compatible with the principle of the independence of central banks in relation to the activities of national central banks and the use of public finances, it is said, allows the Court of Auditors to enter the national central bank. However, it is necessary to provide, on a legal basis, four protections specifically addressed or identified. Thus, the scope of control should be clearly defined within the legal framework, in the activities of the independent external auditors of the national central bank should not be prejudiced, in accordance with the principle of institutional independence as set out in the Treaty and the Statutes, such an audit should respect the prohibition of giving instructions to national central banks and its decision-making bodies and should not prejudice the tasks of national central banks related to the European System of Central Banks and should be implemented on a non-political, independent and purely professional basis. Thus, the Court of Auditors, as I understand the ECB's opinion, can take these four points into account, saying that these safeguards can ensure the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. I don't know, I think I'm the key to this proposal, because I say it's already a third proposal on this subject, and more or less these proposals are identical. Perhaps it would be good for the proposer to take the ECB's views into account and draw up a proposal that might be even more specific. But, as I have said, most solutions can be appropriate, but they are inconsistent with the legal order that we must respect. I think it is essential to review the Court of Auditors also for our Parliament in the role of some kind of supervisor, as I have already said. According to my information, the Ministry of Finance has also drawn up a draft amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Act, and representatives will be able to tell themselves where the legal basis for the audit of the Bank of Slovenia by the Court of Auditors will be given in order to ensure that such revision is consistent with the requirements laid down by the Treaty, the Statute, both by the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank, and those provisions which the European Central Bank has expressed in its opinion. This is what I would like to say about this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. Get ready, Mr. Uroš Prikl. Then he has the word, Mr. Uroš Prikl, please. Get ready, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I have to say, of course, in the introductions, that I will not express or express my support for this Act or the amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act. I estimate that such changes, as stated by the proposer, could pose an excessive risk to the independence and sovereignty of the Bank of Slovenia. As a result, this also means a poor signal or impact on potential investors, financial markets and so on. We do know, however, that when we speak of independence or sovereignty, it is necessary to ensure that, in terms of financial sovereignty or independence, then supervisory, as well as administrative, but not least, but also functional. I must say at this point that in some way I had a dilemma on my own whether to send this text to the next stage of the decision-making or adoption and to amend, amend, supplement or not support it. In particular, this reason, which I initially said, has somehow weighed or exaggerated my decision in this direction. And, of course, the decision is what it is. We in Desus - and personally - do not have any problems with the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, with the supervision of the audit of the Bank of Slovenia; therefore, that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia does so, especially for the proper revision of the regularity of business and the usefulness of business. However, if we are detained or need to be further specified, only a review of supervisory activities should be made. We expect not to say that we demand that the Ministry of Finance find those levers on the route of the Court of Auditors and the central bank, namely the Bank of Slovenia, as is the case with the European Central Bank – the European Court of Auditors – and this is also the main point of all or the main fact that they will be effective and that these elements of the supervision of the Court of Auditors will be effective, while at the same time ensuring the additional monetary competence of the Court of Auditors, which will be the central bank, our Slovenian bank, that is the Bank of Slovenia. I expect that this will happen by autumn, so in September, that we will have a law on our sent-outs that will regulate all of this, including supervisory activities. Perhaps this is also in this place; of course, the criticism of the Bank of Slovenia, some calm dose of criticism or more, on my part and on our side in Desus, of course, has always been and is. And that's the right thing to do. However, on this occasion, I must say that, for the financial situation that has arisen, both in Slovenia and beyond, but the only and exclusive culprit cannot be Banka Slovenije. In the past, it may have been expected that you could be a little more pervasive in your decisions, but it is not the only player or exclusive player — the regulator, but it is not the exclusive player on the financial scene or on the financial floor, if you want. Even today, when some are still talking or talking about some financial upheaval or insufficient support, insufficient support for commercial banks to the economy and also for individuals, of course also have a role to play in particular banks, commercial banks, if you want, which are here in some way independent and sovereign players in the financial field. I would like to touch, I am very sorry that my colleague Shirtzlj, whom I highly appreciate, is not here, but in that area he has lingered for a long time, which, of course, talks about how the reduction of wages does not affect independence, the sovereignty of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, he is right and when the change of law on our benches is expected, it is only conditional that the salary system, or that the salaries of the central bank's governors and vice-governors, will be arranged here and will come within the framework of the salary scale of the public servants and that they will – probably not – probably not, the governor will not be in the highest wage class and this will not affect the fact that the Bank of Slovenia would not be independent, sovereign and will do its work properly, well. Because, last but not least, pay grade, you know, over 60 classes there are extremely good. On this occasion, however, I wonder, since the Governor of the Bank could not have had such a salary since yesterday, and if there was an interest, a hearing in the past, when it was actually an opportunity and opportunity, of course, we could have arranged it in advance. [[…]] However, due to the fact that we are lowering our salary to the vice-governors and the governor, I think we can wait another month and then completely settle it in a regulation that will regulate those areas that I have already mentioned in the introduction. Furthermore, I would not hold back here because, in the very position of the Desus Group, Collegiate Kovacic stated those main reasons why we are detained and why we think that, at this point or such a proposal as proposed by the proposer, we cannot get our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u78	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on Banka Slovenije, its role, its decisions and supervision, which the Banka Slovenije is carrying out on one side of the National Assembly, on the other hand, is a joint assessment, too little of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, always difficult, but also in some way interesting, the debate that the National Assembly has had, at least if we take the Commission's meeting on public finances as a basic framework, we have been conducting for quite some time and in some way, apart from the principle of agreement, that the area needs to be regulated and that some relations between Banka Slovenije and the Court of Auditors, as well as the National Assembly, we have not come in any further. In my own way, I expected that, after some of the conclusions of this Commission had not been reached, of course, what would inevitably follow, when the conclusions of such important commissions have not been reached, is the legislative proposal of a parliamentary group, an individual MEP or some intervention that wishes to point out that some things in the country need to be regulated. And when we are talking about Banka Slovenije, whose decisions, calls and hints have been, at least I can say, sometimes controversial, sometimes such that they have very upset the Slovenian public, it means that in the future we will also have something essential to say about this topic. However, the proposed law somehow does not give me peace in that it seems to me that it is written in such a way that I can and must support it at the same time in a certain part, and in a certain part it is written in such a way that, of course, I cannot support it, that this debate may continue. Of course, I can agree with the proposaler that the presence and role of the National Assembly in the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia should be strengthened, in order to enable the Court of Auditors to also supervise the content Bank of Slovenia and, finally, I do not see any reason why Banka Slovenije would not be subject to the public sector wage system in the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, I find it difficult to agree that Parliament takes the right by limiting the mandate of the Governor to not appoint again from the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, through the possibility that 15 Members, through an initiative defined through a cloud of different options, will open up a field of discretion and references to extraordinary meetings on the subject of whether someone has violated the law or the Constitution over and over again, such meetings in the National Assembly already have without such provisions as would relate to the Bank of Slovenia by my assessment enough and are non-productive, and, last but not least, we are talking about in this law that the Bank of Slovenia should be placed in the system of salaries of public servants, but at the same time some have defined, say, discharge without reason and discretionary transfer of sector leaders, speak something completely contrary to what the Law on Employment. If I can agree with the first part of the solutions proposed by the SDS, I cannot agree with the second. Therefore, at times, in such proposals, I am unaware that the applicant is deliberately proposing a law that he knows that we will not be able to adopt it at some point and we will have to reject it. I am pleased, however, that Mr Dragonja is listening to this debate and that he understands that, in some respects, the National Assembly has an agreement on what needs to be done. When, I expect and understand from the views of the groups of Members, today we reject this proposal precisely because we are assessing that in some points, however, it is essentially destroying some fundamental apostolics who seem important to us and we do not want to give up, on the other hand, that we will not wait until the next parliamentary law, but that we can also expect a legislative response to those points that are good. Let me just repeat that the National Assembly wants to play more role in the supervision of Banka Slovenije, that the National Assembly sees no reason why Banka Slovenije should not be in the system of public sector salaries, and that we must clearly determine the powers of the Court of Auditors to audit and allow it to enter the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marko Pogačnik, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I felt the need to make a call as a proposal. From the perspective of the coalition groups, it was clear that the coalition, namely SMC, Desus and SD, would not support this proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the one hand, this does not surprise me, and on the other hand, it surprises me mainly through the debate of certain Members and Members of the coalitions. The fact is that some of the statements and proposals that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party in amending the Bank of Slovenia Act make sense and support them. It must be said that this is today the first reading of this law. And today's support for this law means nothing, but I would say a green light, but then we could reconcile this law together with both the coalition and the opposition. However, the coalition has probably made a number of decisions so far, because this is the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party that you will not support this issue. You have this right, and you take responsibility. But the fact that I am happy here, on the one hand, is that today quite a number of coalition Members and Members have assessed that the Bank of Slovenia Act urgently needs changes. Above all, the Bank of Slovenia Act urgently needs changes in the area of supervision. I am surprised, however, that the two new vice-governors, who were appointed by the National Assembly about a month ago in particular by supporting the coalition's votes, were then given support, as it should be pointed out that the two new vice-governors also agreed with a number of proposals following the amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act. Especially in areas where the Bank of Slovenia's supervision is being strengthened, notably by the Court of Auditors. This is unacceptable to me and, on the one hand, it is also worrying that the Bank of Slovenia's leadership is in a vehement manner rejecting the supervision of the Court of Auditors. The fact is that the European Central Bank is also supervised by the European Court of Justice, that there is no problem here, that we can read a report on the supervision of the European Court of Auditors on the website of the European Central Bank at least once a year and, on the other hand, the Bank of Slovenia does not allow the Court of Auditors to exercise supervision. On the other hand, as I have already mentioned in the proposal, it is very unusual for the Slovenian Democratic Party to have a hybrid system of managing this bank, that at the same time the bank's leadership is also a world of banks, to make proposals in the morning, and this proposal is confirmed by one and the same people this afternoon. The fact is that the report issued by Banka Slovenije is the same for the National Assembly as for the general public. I do not think this matter is acceptable and that the National Assembly should have a broader view of the only reporting prepared by Banka Slovenije for the entire banking system in Slovenia. The double rehabilitation of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers should be an additional argument; there should be an additional reason to go to strengthening this control. In order to increase control in Banka Slovenije itself both over the elements over which Banka Slovenije exercises control, both agreed on the newly elected vice-governor. I'm surprised that the coalition supported the vice-governors, and this proposal for the law, especially since it's the first reading, you're not going to turn on the green light. I think that lighting the green light to this law would be an important step to make this risky area of banking in Slovenia in some way listen to make it more successful and with additional protection and with additional control limit in some way that these errors, which were in the Slovenian banking area, would no longer be repeated. However, given the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in the New Ljubljana Bank by the Government of Mir Cerar and these coalitions, we have a feeling in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we would rather come back to some old times in the 1980s, in the 1970s and above all we are concerned about the fact that people have been appointed to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, for whom we estimate that there is a great risk that they have contributed to a large bank hole. The fact is that things in Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kredittní banka Maribor in Slovenia have actually been cleaned up, and the people whom you have appointed to the new supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank come mainly from subsidiaries and subsidiaries in the field of the former Yugoslavia, where the remaining issues are probably still open and you have estimated that these matters should also be closed. Now you're taking on your responsibility. I think that, above all, things such as linking to the opposition, that it is only on some paper and just some of your vocabulary, when these things have to be realized, but you feel strong enough to actually get through Parliament what you want or what you want. The same case involved the appointment of a fiscal council, a very important case for Slovenia, 60 votes cast. But you have decided not to invite the opposition here, as in this law. Look, I'd like to point out one more thing. Dear Secretary of State or Government, I also expected today that one of the representatives of Banka Slovenije will be present here, because I am confident that Banka Slovenije is not keeping the National Assembly informed of the state of the banking system. It's unacceptable for me to read from the daily media that the Labour Custodian is a time bomb that can start tomorrow, today. I would have expected that before this was published in the media, to come before the National Assembly to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, vice-governors and say whether or not the Workshop is a ticking bomb. The fact is, some of them are in the morning unions, they're bankers this afternoon, and everything is likely to go to taxpayers. Dear Secretary of State, I think your government will have a great deal of responsibility in the event that they hold the information that appears in the media, that the Labour Custodian is a time bomb. Because it was right under your government that a change was made to the Public Finance Act, where you decided that the state could deposit deposits in the Custodian. And by that time, we had warned that it was probably a lever to strengthen the Labour Custodian, because probably there were your people and the Labour Custodian actually supporting the projects of the so-called Left People. For me, these matters are unacceptable, and I think it would be a time to call an extraordinary meeting on this issue, because I think that experience from the past is eloquent enough. I am sure that taxpayers have already invested too much in these Slovenian banks, but given the management and the proposals made by the current coalition, I am really afraid that the time is probably coming when we will have to rehabilitate the banking system again, and no one will take any responsibility. It is also true that the Government of Mira Cerar and the coalition quietly in a non-transparent manner also in breach of the Company Act has joined Probanka and the Bank's Factor for the Management of Bank Claims, the so-called Bad Bank. You're putting people in control worlds that are somehow responsible for the bank hole that was created. The facts say in this direction that we probably cannot expect any improvements in this Slovenian banking system. This is the decision of this coalition and you must take responsibility for it. Above all, I am surprised that, given that this is the first reading and that several Members and Members of the Coalition have also supported some of the proposals in this law, I would expect them to support the proposal in the first reading, but that they could only improve it with some common powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. The European rules on the role of central banks do not stem from, as I would say, a real-socialist one-party tradition that has de facto abolished private property and then the resulting relationship. So I'm not sure that the European Central Bank really knows that everything that counts in banking and economy is owned by the state, that is, government coalitions that set up supervisory councils in banks and businesses. The state imagines that it can act on one side as a regulator, but at the same time it is the owner. Especially in the case of our bank hole, the country is destroyed in this contradiction, it is neither one nor the other, because it cannot be both. Of course, the hostage of the situation that arose when a well-established financial and economic policy set-up escaped, the danger that the competition that received the elections would run away in a way that privatised state property or tried to privatise it through management acquisitions with loans without guarantees from state banks. Both are state-owned and the Bank of Slovenia, which is also a state institution, is supposed to stop this money flow without guarantees. If we are looking for slander, it is likely that something is privatized with tax money, as we see today. But the personal benefit is to be lost, and the fact is that the real money has gone out of the banks, so the owner is now being returned by the state, and the country is by the end of all its citizens and people, so people are returning this money, as far as I know, is a thousand 400 million euros in interest. If Slovenia is a legal country, we would expect it to work as such. The bank hole is due to the ecclesiastical solution of Article 2 of the Constitution, to the current legislation and to the terrible consequences for the whole of Slovenia for several years if the matter is going to go well in any way to resolve this burden. That's a question, too. In the Member State, we will support this bill because it is essential for the system of legal states to coincide with these phenomena, sanction those responsible, establish mechanisms that will never again allow such a thing, and that will also restore confidence in the banking system, because there is still a credit crunch, because without such measures there can be no confidence in the banking institutions and we will support any next step that goes in this direction. That's the least we can do, given the position we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, MPs, Members of Parliament. Initially, I would like to say just two words to the proposer in particular, and I owe a few words to the explanation, where something has been stated in relation to our position, is the true position of the Party Group of the Modern Centre. I am returning a good three-quarters of a year ago when I made it very clear at the March 2015 meeting that it was rejected for a simple reason, because it was difficult to understand the initiative of the proposers after some necessary change in the legal matter, but not entirely, just one piece. The fact is, for the record, if I may say so, it is exactly the same for a year, except for some symbolic correction of that text, a new proposal is now emerging. Why do I think that? For a simple reason, although I'm only going to give a symbolic comparison. The fact is, if the proposer really has and intended such material to be properly regulated and in accordance with today's financial and economic situation, the power is the Bank of Slovenia, then somehow I cannot understand that they may not even have mentioned the amendment of Article 5 of the existing Bank of Slovenia Act, where the money unit is still expressed in tolars after 25 years. Perhaps the applicants have more information than we do that perhaps the Republic of Slovenia will not be in the future in the European Monetary Union and that we may return to the Tolar. Only so, because there are always some observations that the SMC Group does not want to systematically regulate an area in one way or another. Now I'm going back to the content itself. What happened until 2013 or happened in Banka Slovenije, an institution whose entrance is decorated by the so-called Atlas statues, which we know to be a Greek sign of virtue. If I touch only the recapitalisation that the respected predecessor has just mentioned. The fact is that this enormous burden on the shoulders of citizens and citizens has fallen because at that time Slovenia lost its battle, literally, with modern, open, competitive and more organised economies and, after the defeat of the economic crisis at that time, has placed a burden on the so-called bank recovery. Perhaps that was because of stupidity, naivety, ignorance, perhaps because of the deceptive methodology. Or perhaps because someone at that time or in exchange for well-paid services complied with the instructions of the European Financial Summit. Big question in part one and two. I sincerely hope that in the near future we will receive as many satisfying answers as possible. If I touch the institution of the Bank of Slovenia. The fact is, here I'm going to get a little attached to the debater, the honourable Member of Mr Shirtzl, who's already made a bit of an indication with some data, but I think it's right to touch that too. Banka Slovenije is a great employer if we put her side by side with other central banks. In Banka Slovenije, this kind address of the second largest central bank in the world, by the number of employees per hundred thousand inhabitants, is not completely comparable and several ten countries are ahead of them also in the European Community system. The fact is that Banka Slovenije was considered a boring and calm institution until 2013. What the honourable Member of Shirtzelj has already mentioned is quite true. Compared to the country of Sweden, to which we like to compare ourselves. But I would like to make a comparison here with another country, which is not just an example of the law, the economy and all the currents. And that's Germany. The fact is that we, who have 21.6 employees per hundred thousand inhabitants, in Germany is the same institution, which has only 12 employees of central banks. I think the words are superfluous. Such data should recognise that all those who meet these data are faced with explanations justifying the number of employees, that things are not comparable due to the different functions and scopes of the works performed by different banks. It's like we're not in the European Monetary Union. After entering this European association and taking over the euro, the Bank of Slovenia literally lost a good part of its tasks and did not absolutely cut into the number of its employees. Not now when the number of banks it controls is decreasing. It's practically going the other way. So much for that. However, I will touch and also explain why the Group is not in favour of this amendment of the law, although – and also previous debaters from other coalition parties have indicated – there are still some things that make sense. However, there are circumstances that need to be considered. With regard to the five billion-billion-dollar hole, you fully agree that in the last year I have always stressed and will also on all committees that the culprits for the five billion-dollar hole are members of the state-owned administrations and supervisory boards of banks and the Bank of Slovenia for a simple reason that they do not fully or sufficiently carry out their activities in order to mitigate or prevent this huge damage to taxpayers. It should simply be remembered that the turning point was so-called stress tests. In the process of recapitalisation of NLB, NKBM, Banka, Probanke and Factor Banka, Banka Slovenije actively participated in subordinated bond processes. During this time, interesting information is coming that we are looking forward to with great interest from the European Court of Justice. Here I would like to touch another important matter that is linked to the central bank, the so-called controlled liquidation of the Factor Bank and Probank. What does "controlled" mean? I must admit that several times I have already addressed the question to certain individuals and authorities to get an answer, because this institution in the Law on Forced Settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation is simply not. In connection with these two banks, it is also necessary to start here, clearly, with questions. Why did these two banks, which were then privately owned, come into state ownership for which 445 million had to be recapitalised, and in those processes they received over a billion euro guarantees? The weak claims of Ljubljana's largest bank, which is also now known to have at least 2.28 billion euro in the entire group system. Not to mention what this means, more than a fifth of the bad claims in the largest bank portfolio. The exercise of supervision in business banks, a particular way of so-called state-owned banking, I can say that it is somehow hidden to the public, despite the fear that banking activities concerning commercial work do not give desired activities such as economy loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact is that the supervisor here, and this is the Bank of Slovenia, is really exercising those powers he has. These are some principled opinions, views, views on the central bank system itself, which does not mean that, with what I mean, I want to endanger this institution. But as an MP, I have the opportunity to say this out loud in this National Assembly. What, though, are the circumstances that should have affected the change in the content of the Bank of Slovenia Act and which I miss in this proposal, which was transmitted by the SDS Group? First of all, Banka Slovenije has taken over the management of the bank resolution fund. There's no proposal for that. With three. Seven. 2015 The European Union Directive on the introduction of the Deposit Guarantee Fund of credit institutions, which is now managed by the Bank of Slovenia, entered into force. With the adoption of the Bank of Slovenia Banking Act, two banks have taken over a system of so-called exchange of information on customer creditworthiness. The Bank of Slovenia also has reduced jurisdiction over the prudential supervision of business banks or, in its own words, so-called systemic banks, because, to a certain extent, it is directly assumed by the European Central Bank. Other areas could most likely be listed, but these are four things that are crucial in the processes that are taking place in the Bank of Slovenia and are linked directly to taxpayers if we are talking about business banks that are in 100 % state ownership. If I can sum it up in some way, why I am not inclined to approve the amendment of the Bank of Slovenia Act. First of all, because the content of this proposal is limited to a single area which can be considered to be the most important thing for the applicant. I reiterate, it is not opposed and it has also been very clear in the presentation that there is still a need for reflection on the individual articles proposed. However, I firmly believe that the extreme time after a good 25 years and given the current situation in both the financial and economic fields in the Republic of Slovenia is after a comprehensive reform of the law itself, due to the changed circumstances mentioned, which I would not have once again pointed out. I would then also touch on some direction of the opinion of the European Central Bank. With regard to the content itself, I would like to refer here to the position presented by my colleague Urska. However, I would touch on those comments by the honourable Members of the proposal, the association of the National Assembly, the Bank of Slovenia and so on. Let us not forget that there is already this link, because the Chairman of the Monetary System Committee is actively involved in the processes of the meetings of the Board of Governors. We cannot say here that there is no connection with the National Assembly as well as with the Bank of Slovenia. At the same time, the same person is also a member of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which is said to be the flow we certainly have. Even that proposal or initiative relating to the governors and the shortening of mandates is certainly some form of intervention, and what a respected colleague from the SD Group has mentioned would indeed be restricting good individuals in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. A representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Method Dragonja, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have presented the Government's position, in addition to this, I would like to say that the Government is aware of the need to modernise the regulatory framework for the operation of the central bank, that it is not at all a matter for the Government to retain in some way the status of inviolability of the central bank. It should be noted, however, that in the context of the European institutions, discussions or incentives are under way, the process of how to regulate or how to focus control over the functioning of central banks, and first the ECB, and then the national central banks in which they carry out these audits in order not to interfere with this independence or the autonomy of the central banks, particularly as regards these most sensitive areas. This is the monetary functions themselves, the supervisory functions, although there have been several discussions here today that Parliament's supervision should also interfere with this supervisory function. From this point of view, the Government is preparing its amendment to the Bank of Slovenia Act. In that part relating to the audit of the Court of Auditors, a meeting was already held in early February between the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the President of the Court of Auditors and the Minister of Finance, where an approach to the definition of a legislative framework for this purpose was established or harmonised. On this basis, the Ministry of Finance has already prepared the text or working version of Article 52a to regulate this issue. We are coordinating these provisions with the Bank of Slovenia at this time. When they are aligned with the Bank of Slovenia, I hope they will, we will also coordinate them with the Court of Auditors. In particular, the Minister has instructed me to inform the National Assembly that I would like to see this stage in the framework of the European institutions of this debate, so that this supervisory framework of supervisory institutions, accounting courts can be defined to this extent, in order to then be able to draw up a final proposal for a law and forward it to the European Central Bank in agreement or to obtain an opinion, which is necessary for such laws. Thus, in this part of the audit, we have already practical proposals and solutions that are significantly more detailed because they need to define on the one hand the scope of the audit and on the other hand certain procedural aspects of how this audit is carried out or how the Court of Auditors can operate and how any different views on the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors can then be resolved. There is still no principled position on the SDS proposal on article 11 of the amendment, or article 40a of the Bank of Slovenia Act, which discusses the financial plan and the human resources policy. A few more consultations will be needed here. In this part, the Ministry has its own position and must also coordinate it in this process of drafting the law. We hope that, within the Ministry in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia and the Court of Auditors, we will be able to prepare a legal novelty by this stage so that we can forward it to the European Central Bank by the end of April. Then we usually expect a response from the European Central Bank within 60 days. Then we could continue to mediate when this novel is harmonised professionally, in the parliamentary process and then it is realistic that the law should be dealt with sometime in the early autumn in the National Assembly. We are aware that there is a need for these provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Act to be upgraded. We are working in this direction to come up with solutions that will be an improvement, not only in the field of auditing, but a general improvement in the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia as the central monetary institution of the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to propose, and this is an appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly, in all laws relating to the role and functioning of the Bank of Slovenia, we also agree that it is appropriate for the Bank of Slovenia to participate in the discussions in the National Assembly. But this does not depend on the Government, it depends on the leadership of the National Assembly, in which stages, according to your Rules of Procedure, invite the Bank of Slovenia directly to these discussions, so that the Bank of Slovenia can explain and also present its views, which I think would increase the quality of the hearings. We are open to further suggestions and suggestions on this issue. We will also examine everyone proposed in this paper once again in the process of preparing the government novel. If necessary, we will also give the initiative to the opposition parties and engage in dialogue so that, to the greatest extent possible, solutions can be found to satisfy these institutional frameworks of the system of European central banks and, on the other hand, the expectations of parliamentary parties and the general public as to the transparency of the operation of the central bank in the part where this transparency must be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u88	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, which was well-designed primarily to improve the control of Banka Slovenije as well as in individual banks, will not be seen by the coalition. On the one hand, it's not some new surprise. Interestingly, the Secretary of State said that an amendment to the Bank of Slovenia law was being prepared. He spoke again about openness in the drafting of this law, but to date, at least by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have not received any invitation to this creation of a new law or amendments. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the situation as it is, and that is why we have already, I don't know, tabled this amendment for the fourth or fifth time, but this coalition has decided not to support our proposals. This is probably not surprising in view of the people you have appointed to the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. Here I think that it will probably be necessary to take responsibility, even if the matter becomes more acute with any license from these members of the Supervisory Board. On the other hand, we are reading in the media about the time bombs of various savings banks, the Labour Custodian, here perhaps challenging the Secretary of State, whether you had any consultation or meeting with Banka Slovenija or at the Ministry of Finance or whether we will be re-taxing those who will be rehabilitating certain private banks or savings banks. I am sure that this proposal for a law is not bad; in certain segments there is probably still a need for correction. Unfortunately, however, this practice of this government coalition, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus continues, but you will also accept responsibility. I am convinced that this novelty, or amendment, is essential before the Secretary of State has mentioned that if everything is as it should be, this amendment to the law should see the light in the National Assembly sometime in the early autumn. I think it's too late, even if it's just a situation like it is now or we can understand it from the media. In conclusion, regrettably, given the situation as regards the management of state property, with the situation in the area of banks and savings banks, we will have to call on another Finance Committee in the Slovenian Democratic Party as a party responsible, a State-owned party in view of the passiveness of the Government of Mira Cerar, this coalition, the Commission on Public Finance Control, and, last but not least, some extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether it wishes to under paragraph 71. There is someone else to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u90	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2016-June 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to the part of the declaration entitled: Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period January 2016-June 2017 to the chapter of the EU Common Trade Policy. The Committee for the Affairs of the European Union does not support the amendment. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. We have tabled amendments in the United Left because the issue of secret trade and investment agreements is one of the key issues for Slovenia and for all European countries at this time. It seems amazing to us that politicians of different colors, representatives of virtually most, with some honorable exceptions, agree on this way of negotiating and completely undemocratic and not least on the logic of agreements. These agreements will have a profound impact on the future of people on both sides of the Atlantic. Commissioner Malmström was here and said that this was one of the most transparent negotiations in the history of the European Union, which I am very concerned about. If this is one of the most transparent negotiations, what others look like. It is understandable how America will come to the Slovenian market, but when I asked her how Slovenia could participate in, say, American markets, of course, via Germany. Your Honor, I'm very concerned. This is an agreement between the strong, we will only be able to cooperate with the dumped prices through Germany. Therefore, the amendment proposes transparency of negotiations and the democratic inclusion of civil society organisations, trade unions or all interested public, a clear interpretation and preparation of studies, not only from an economic point of view, but also provides for social, labour, environmental and consumer standards and that citizens and citizens are informed. And to make it clear that this is a transfer of sovereignty and a two-thirds majority will be required in the case of the ratification law. These negotiations have already received more than three million European citizens' signatures, and yet nothing has happened. I suggest you reconsider and vote for our amendments. When we looked at the MGRT website, all together, there was one great propaganda for TTIP. So much for democracy. We are citizens against it, but politics and interest groups are like nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u92	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Parliamentary Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much, President, colleagues, colleagues! We will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group, but I would like to draw particular attention and point out that any negotiations in democratic systems must certainly be open, transparent and inclusive to all those groups of stakeholders who wish or have a certain share in these negotiations. This is particularly true for such negotiations, which are also highlighted here in the amendment of the United Left. However, let me remind you that already in this document, the proposal for a declaration on pages 59 and 60 is addressed to this very aspect. We have also been assured by the representatives of the Ministry of the Economy that all necessary information is made publicly, openly and transparently available on the website and that, in all major negotiations and decisions related to these activities, comprehensive analyses and studies on the impact and effects of these agreements on the Slovenian economy. And these are also available. For this reason, since these legitimate concerns are actually addressed responsibly by the competent ministry, we do not see the need to support this amendment. Our Group of Members will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u94	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, chairman. The head of the SMC delegation gave me a good point. If we hold what you said, then we live in some non-democratic system that negotiates with another non-democratic system. But since this is about explaining my voice, I didn't want to complicate it procedurally, Mr. Chairman. You said the board didn't support it. I am a member of this committee, and I support this amendment, so I would like to ask for a somewhat clearer dictatorship in the future. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u96	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 49. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a declaration. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted on the competent working bodies, the proposal for a declaration would not be harmonised. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In my view of the New Slovenia, I have said that you cannot object to this document. I would also like to predict here that Nova Slovenija will continue to constructively assist the government in effectively representing, defending and implementing the interests, benefits of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Above all, I would focus here on the most important issue we have in the broader sense, which is also the first point, the first priority of the Dutch Presidency. We need to strengthen and mobilise all our potentials so that we can solve the refugee and migrant problem as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. Mr Tusk said yesterday in Greece: Schengen will be operational by the end of this year. We believe it's too late. Perhaps it would be more political will to put this into effect faster, say before vacations, before vacations. Why am I talking about this? For the first time, because Mr Tusk admitted with this that I had already said on 14 December that we have a mini Schengen de facto. On the other hand, I know here that he is very concerned, besides us, of course, also the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. If we look at the figures for the European Union and also for Slovenia, what would happen and what would happen if the Schengen did not work. The calculations show that over the next decade, from this year to 2025, the European Union would lose over €470 billion if not for the Schengen operation. If the Slovenian truck were to stand at the border for only one hour, if the Schengen does not work, Slovenia would lose only eight million at the annual level. That's the only reason. And if the Schengen doesn't work, believe me, Italian and Austrian tourists won't come to Slovenia because they don't have the nerve to wait at the border. And if only 1 in 10 Italians or Austria did not come to Slovenia as a tourist, we are at about 55 tourist million euros. That's the number. That's what calculations are. As a result, we must make a debilitating effort to ensure that the Schengen is fully operational as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u98	Any other explanation for the voice? The explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be given by Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much, President. Of course, we will vote in favour in our parliamentary group, but that it will not appear as uniform as it is now shown, this document is one of the key operational foreign policy documents of the Republic of Slovenia for the next year and a half. Why is it so important? Because it has the power to address very different areas of public policy and to seek solutions, it is looking for ways, strategies and challenges for them. So, in a way, it is one such comprehensive document, which is much more than just some kind of external policy view, but it positions the role of the Republic of Slovenia in the most important institution at the supranational level, which we are members of, this is in the European Union. And that in the period and at a time when we are all at national level as well as the European Union alone before the key challenges and future of what direction we are going to take or how we will develop. From this point of view, Slovenia has taken a responsible approach as a member of the European Union and has recognised for itself its challenges, which are complementary to the challenges of the European Union, and has written this in the document. If we also want to be responsible from this point of view and in some way to our country and to the European Union, it is certainly by voting for the document in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u100	Mr Matjaž Germany has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. It is a relatively large and important document defining relations between the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia, and it touches on many issues, defining our future. Given that we have a relatively vague and uncertain future ahead of us, we estimate that it is to strengthen some of the relations of the institutions of the European Union, mainly from the perspective of the future, which is what the European Union needs. Above all, more Europe and a better attitude for Europeans towards themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u102	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Somehow, I admit that in the United Left at the 16th session, it is a bit unusual for us to listen to the lines that begin with a responsible, constructive expression, because it is likely that all Members and Members should act this way. But if I remember that interpretation session, that meeting was everything but a debate on the foreign policy issue of the Republic of Slovenia. I was trying to create it somehow creatively, and because I consider one more unworthy than they say, I had to calm it down, and I'm the only one I've ever met here. The United Left won't support that. For similar reasons as Nova Slovenija. We are acting at this non-ideological level equally responsible if I have to use this, and that is why we cannot support this. I can honestly admit that this document is better than the previous one, in particular the bright exception is a team from the judiciary, which has written very clearly some reservations, concerns and so on about such documents. In other ministries this has not been written, this document is not even as extensive as it has been said before, I hope that this third, which we will read, if this call persists, will follow this bright example and will also be more frank through other conflicts of interest in Slovenia in this association, but what are the challenges, what are the problems of some of our negotiating positions, problems. But not in the way it was here this morning and at the presentation of Minister Marble, when they said, and we did. We are not one good schoolgirl, we are not some kind of slave, we are equal members, members of the European Union, we have some of our interests that we must pursue with appropriate tactics and strategies. Once this is in this document, we will be happy to support such documents in the United Left. If what Mrs. Politology says was true, then we would support our amendment and this document would be even better. However, I hope that in the near future we will really talk about the external policy of the European Union. Not necessarily in double time. The United Left can't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u104	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We'll support the Declaration in Desus. We know that this document is not all-powerful, but it is a good basis, a good platform for drawing up views and, last but not least, for the very functioning of our country in the European institutions. Practically covers all areas, which we are particularly pleased with, including the area of older people, the area of demographics, not least intergenerational cooperation, which is still important in an ageing Europe. There's no alternative to that. It is not a harmful matter, on the contrary, allowing Slovenia to move forward. We can't see the reasons why we wouldn't support it. So we will gladly and fully support this issue, with the hope that it will also have applicative effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u106	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 13. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda this is with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group tabled a proposal for a law on the Bank of Slovenia, a second time. If this law were rejected, we would file it next time and next time. This seeks to ensure the supervision of Banka Slovenije, which is not available today. Banka Slovenije does not allow the Court of Auditors to examine it to examine the profitability of the business, to review the regularity of business and to determine in fact whether all Banka Slovenije's actions in connection with the banking crisis were properly, prudently, economically, economically justified. In this crisis, taxpayers paid EUR 5 billion. Any opinion on whether the National Assembly has the right to authorize the Court of Auditors to review it is inappropriate here. Banka Slovenije corresponds to the National Assembly and the National Assembly may order the Court of Auditors to examine it. Notwithstanding the fact that existing legislation allows for the Court of Auditors to examine the Bank of Slovenia. The purpose of the law is, for the first time, to ensure the supervision of the operations of the Bank of Slovenia. Secondly, only the operation of the Bank of Slovenia is regulated, both as regards governors and employees, and not least to ensure the more efficient operation of the Bank of Slovenia, including with regard to employment and also with regard to the money the Bank of Slovenia devotes to employees, salaries and so on. Therefore, it is also proposed that the governors, vice-governors and all other employees become part of the wage system in force in the public administration. The Governor will still have a salary at the level of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, which means that this will still be relatively high wages and, of course, once lower wages compared to the current one. However, this is not a problem of the wage system in public administration, it is a problem of wages in Banka Slovenije. This will make the Bank of Slovenia more transparent and, last but not least, it will have to take into account the laws relating to corruption and the laws that are actually applicable to everyone in Slovenia, and I believe that Bank of Slovenia should also apply. That's why we're going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u108	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u109	Why will the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre not vote in favour of the bill in question? First time. This bill is identical to that of 15 by means of symbolic corrections. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed proposal indicates that the applicant does not want to fully regulate the Bank of Slovenia law, despite the fact that circumstances and facts have changed significantly, particularly in 2013 and beyond. Another time. Today, Banka Slovenije manages the bank resolution fund, manages the deposit guarantee fund of credit institutions, takes over the customer credit rating system and has reduced competence in the supervision of system banks established in the Republic of Slovenia. Third time. This proposal to amend the law does not cure weaknesses or correct mistakes in the past. Fourth time. Only these few proposed amendments to the Articles of the Bank of Slovenia Act are not enough to prevent or optimize the procedural conditions for the more efficient work of the Bank of Slovenia. After 14 years, the Republic of Slovenia needs the Bank of Slovenia Act, which will fully regulate this area, which will be adapted to the current or current financial and economic environment. Fifth. We are confident that the Ministry of Finance will start with serious activity for a comprehensive reform of the Banka Slovenije Act, which will reflect the needs and conditions of today's and future changing situations. On the basis of the above, we will vote against the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u110	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. As we have predicted in our position, we will support this proposal for a law. Of course, we understand and respect because we live in a democratic country, we have different thinking and different opinions and different decisions of the coalition. But if the political will was enough, what we need bloodyly at this moment, then the coalition would also at the same time take a decision and commit the government to the Government to come to the National Assembly with a comprehensive, as you say, Banka Slovenije law until, I don't know, 1 April, by 1 May. He's in a hurry. Why? Because we have to privatise the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of 2017, in accordance with the catalogue of commitments we have accepted with State aid granted to the New Ljubljana Bank of 1.55 billion euros. Banka Slovenije probably has something to say at this time. Maybe there's something about the frame. The Council of the Bank of Slovenia has adopted a decision which I do not know whether or not it will come true. As a politician, I can only express my expectation that the Bank of Slovenia will make or not issue any recommendation or consent to the suitability of certain candidates. Here I also point out once again that the correctness of the strategy on the management of the State investments of the Republic of Slovenia needs to be considered. It states that the state in the New Ljubljana Bank will maintain a 25% share + 1 share. This is contrary to European Union law, contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I've studied some of these things. There is also legal practice and New Slovenia points out that we would not be burned again, as we have done many times when it comes to non-compliance with the European acquis. So our vote will be for this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u112	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A AMENDMENT LAW ON THE APPLICATION OF RESIDENCES We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Residence Registration Act is suitable for further consideration. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. What do we propose with changes to the law? This is basically the next question. In 2007, when we changed a number of laws that turned to euro tolars, the vast majority of laws were amended in such a way that the exchange rate was simply taken into account. In this law – I also said in my explanation yesterday that it is not clear why – but there has also been a tenfold increase in fines. That is why we have proposed a change in this area, as well as a change in the part concerning facilities where no temporary registration is required. These are, say, single police homes, these are military premises and, among other things, the law also provides for places where military service is carried out. Since we do not have a replacement military service, we have, of course, proposed deleting this provision. Yesterday in the debate, which was, as it was, very clearly stated both by the government and by the coalition, that the law needed to be changed. More. The Ministry even announced that they would reduce the penalties, or not as much as we do, but that there would be a reduction. If so, it seems to me that there is no problem in supporting this law, since we are in the first reading and until the second reading or final adoption, the law can be corrected by amendments, so one would expect the law to receive support. We will, of course, support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u114	Mrs Janja Slug has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u115	We will not support the proposal for a new law in the SMC Group of Members. We believe that the SDS proposal is weak and unprofessional and that the legitimacy of the proposer is also questionable. In the SMC Group, we allow the possibility that SDS has seen its error and that it wants to correct the 2007 error, but their proposal comes a little late and with some incomprehensible excuses, so we do not think it is sincere. The SDS has also shifted precisely at a time when not only is the law on the registration of residence completely renewed in this government's normative programme, but it is already in coalition coordination with the hospitality law. It provides for approximately half the fines. In the Hostage Act, the administrative burden of business entities engaged in accommodation activities in the area of hospitality is also regulated by the principle. The objectives of the amendments to today's proposal are also in total contradiction to their current functioning in the National Assembly as regards security issues. To ensure the safety of citizens and others, the police need accurate information about the guests who will be staying with us. Such data shall be verified in the records of the persons sought. We are not least bound by European legislation and international agreements. Even to prevent fictitious residence applications, the SMC believes that more effort is needed and not less than the SDS is proposing. In addition to the SMC mentioned in the SMC Group, we refuse to accede to the amendment of legislation on the basis of individual cases. The applicant cites only one example, which, in the course of the discussion, was found not to hold the allegations and was ultimately given only a reminder to the offender. The total number of such infringements from 2013 to today by natural persons is 7. In view of the fact that the SMC Group does not consider the proposal appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u116	Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. My procedural question is, in fact, how will we proceed? I don't know if you've heard, President, or not, it was said, please, if you look at the magnetogram, the legitimacy of the candidates is questionable. In accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, in accordance with all the rules that I know – since I do not have to look at me so badly, I will do nothing to you – the situation is that every Member has the right to propose the law. I therefore ask you, President, whether anything has happened that the SDS Group does not know about it. Has anyone made any coup d'états? Did someone shut us down? Are we abolished as a group? Because then I don't know what we're doing here. Have you changed a rule or what happened? We do not know now, we simply do not know, so please explain what has happened, Mr President, that the legitimacy, as has been said, is questionable. So if we are no longer competent to propose a law, then tell us by which regulation this happened and when the regulation was amended. Perhaps you had a secret session of Parliament and that is why we were not invited. In short, I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u118	Since you've asked a question, this time I'm going to make an exception, and I'm going to answer it. You're the legal proponents of the law. On the issue of legitimacy, however, everyone in a democratic society can have his or her own opinion. So I absolutely agree with the fact that the law has been properly tabled and, on the other hand, I cannot deny to others that they deny, agree, even my legitimacy has been denied many times, but at least it is legally correct, so I do not understand why they would use double vats. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members shall be mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much, President for your word. We will not support the social democrats of the bill. Not because we would not agree on too many fines, but because the Government already has this law in the normative programme, the law is already in coalition or inter-departmental coordination, because the law also needs other substantive changes, which we have also detected, but we regret that we have not acceded to this before. In any case, the proposer found this error when he found that these fines were too high in 2013, he grieved us that it was so late. I believe that this new law, which is in preparation, will also correct these fines, of course not as much as originally envisaged, and I look forward to the consideration of this law prepared by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u120	Is there any other explanation? The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. This is going from worse to worse. I almost don't get that anymore. I guess my logic is wrong. We have a mistake that happens a decade ago, and then in four years it's decided, five years goes by, all the living governments of God have changed, now the SMC doesn't want to fix it, because then you're all for I don't know. [[...]] Comrade Yosko, who is more like this, all the business, would probably have fired all of you from his company if he had one of those, and brought in, I don't know what kind of fugitives they probably would have become migrants. It's not a joke. Then it's not a joke reasoning where there's a small number. Similarly, we had this domestic problem, and it was in some composition of the National Assembly, where the law orgasms through formal degrees out. And the people of God, are you listening or not?Oh, my God! God, I'm an agnostic. Come on, let's say that. I use phrases in the Bible. I mean, good morning! I don't know what's going on. And then most of the opposition's cases are always said to be in coalition coordination or inter-departmental coordination. We had that unfortunate story, the science institute in Vienna, where there is literally one gentleman, one secretary, somewhere to be given, and we generously, as a young Member, say to a lady from one ministry: "Yes, Mr. Trček, you do not know, we need six months to coordinate." People from the ministries are coming, and they say they need mediation between ministries. The twilight of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u122	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I don't know if my explanation will be legitimate, but I'll tell her anyway. Given that we have been warned, and that of all the parliamentary groups, and probably also the government, that some of the penalties and some of the things connected with the implementation of this law are incomprehensiblely expensive, that the penalty for the wrong record is, that is, soft or hard, EUR 4 000 for the person doing so and EUR 25 000 for the legal person. These are penalties higher than the worst tax offences in the business, and they can be millions, tens of millions of euros. Then the government or the coalition should do something. We have decided to listen to this change and to prepare it. The government, which has 40,000 officials, the department ministry, which has a few hundred employees, has not listened. Now we're wondering if you're wondering who might suggest it. Probably the one who's smart enough to make the law, takes the time to do it, finds a solution, and gets into the legislative process. You must be extremely stupid to object to some clever solution, even for such foolish reasons as are recorded in the government’s explanation of opinion. I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u124	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 63 Members and a Member of Parliament present. There were 18 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[There were 18 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr. Tank, turn it off, please. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 7. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 15, 18 and 42. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to that Article shall become irrelevant. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we have proposed amendments to ensure that the repeal of the environmental permit is removed from the law. In the section on the grounds for the adoption of the law, there is no reason, in any case, to abolish the time limit for the validity of the environmental permit, to reduce environmental standards and to abolish the provision under which an investor must first obtain an environmental permit as a precondition for the construction of the plant for which an environmental permit is required. The NGO and the Engineering Chamber made comments which objected to the lifting of the time limit on environmental permits, but the comments were not taken into account because, in the opinion of the Ministry, they were not justified. The basis for lowering environmental standards is the assessment of the operator. All other stakeholders, the local community, the profession and NGOs are excluded from the higher pollution decision-making process, although it is the environment that will suffer the most as a result of this, that external pollution costs, such as the treatment of pollution-related diseases, will be borne by the State. Here the interest of capital is clearly placed before the interests of the environment, people and animals living in it. Such provisions of the law in the United Left will by no means be and must not be accepted. Of course, we do not have to copy all the directives of the European Union and we do not need to follow the strictest standards, but we suggest that all options be reconsidered and that cases be set at least more strictly when higher pollution is generally permissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u126	Mrs Vesna Vervega has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. A key amendment to Article 69 of the Environmental Protection Act, as provided for in Article 7 of the amendment, is the termination of the environmental authorisation period and the change in the stage in which the environmental authorisation is to be obtained. The amendment of the law shall define several safeguards to verify the appropriateness and re-change of the environmental protection permit at the time of the termination of the time of entry into force. For example, the Ministry of the Environment must, on an official basis, verify the appropriateness of the authorisation with the applicable environmental rules at least once every 10 years, provided that it has not already been amended on an operator's proposal during this period. We also support the amendment in our parliamentary group that it is a legally binding environmental permit to obtain a building permit no later than the start of the construction of the plant and no longer in the first phase, this is the stage of obtaining the building permit. With the amendment of the Group of Members, the United Left is deleting these changes and we will not support it in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u128	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I feel like a Martian in this session, really. I guess there's something crazy wrong with my logic. Today, there was a protest against this law by citizens and citizens before the National Assembly. I'll say more in explanation, and I've got time, and I'm gonna smoke it. This law, citing the introduction of a directive, the correction of another directive and the improvement of some state in the ECO Fund, which is again a story for itself, for a few hours. The silence in the background opens a gap for dirty industries in Slovenia. A whole range of actors made it very clear that they didn't explain from the Ministry or in substance why it was, they said everything you said, "when you're slobbering," they'd say in the White Country. And that was it. At the committee's own meeting, when we asked for these answers, the Ministry of the Environment and Space in particular takes note of the fact that they do not even want to answer, Members of the coalition do not intrude, and then usually ends up saying the Minister how rude the Duck is. What do I have to do with the lady? I'd take her under my hand and go to the party with her, get some fresh air. But what Mrs. SMC said in ten years, in ten years. I would like to give you all where you live, one serious pollution "stain" and perhaps I will, I will become an ecological radical, because I am doing a film in this House because of you, and then we will wait ten years, my dear, dear gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u130	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Look, dear fellow Duck, I appreciate you very much, but such discussions are somehow misleading. Now that this law is some kind of environmental degradation, it absolutely does not. I don't know if you've read all these provisions, including those cauteristic provisions. The law states that the environmental permit does not have a life span of ten years and has an unlimited life span. However, it is determined that it is checked for 10 years to ensure that it still complies with environmental standards. And that's a guarantee that's the same. The reason for this to be resolved was that, in the event of a change in the environmental permit, for example, after eight years, it is no longer necessary, now that the ten-year period is up to two years later, to re-apply for an extension of the environmental protection permit, but if it was already due to an amendment two years ago, let's say a device and a change of the environmental protection permit. In short, we are removing one completely administrative obstacle and in no way reducing environmental standards. But I will vote against your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u132	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u133	I am addressing you, Mr President, but I need to develop a little substantively procedurally. Because otherwise you won't know whether to give me a reminder or not. What some fellow says is, "The Duck is a jerk." He has no idea. Legally, something goes wrong. I buy it. I think I'm pretty stupid myself. But the fact that this is an insult to a whole bunch of people who came to the meeting who explained, that was like convincing, sorry, I'm gonna be a little sexist, old virgin. He complains to my experts who are working to the point of exhaustion. He complains about civil society actors who are told by certain parties on that committee, "ah, these societies", if they are not their societies. There's also a possibility that people will go crazy there, and we'll have a fine for that. That Marko Ferruga would understand. But this morning we had, come from the EU – yes, it is procedural – czech, Juncker says involving several stakeholders up, down, down, down. Dear Mr Milan Brglez, dear colleague Milan, you can insult me all you want, you can spit at me, I'm not the sociologist who won't spit in my face. But don't insult citizens and citizens, don't insult many people who have been dealing with this problem for decades with such legal and formalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u134	Is there any other procedural explanation for the vote? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 51. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Joint Left to Article 7 has not been adopted, amendments to Articles 15, 18 and 42 have become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, chairman. I got a call this morning from a radio that some people have in their mouth, and I'm not going to mention that they won't be tweeting right away during the session. And I said, see, with regard to environmental and environmental issues in the composition of the current Parliament, there is sensitivity, this is an area in which, unfortunately, only the United Left and the Group of Non-Aligned Members are concerned. I was a little prejudiced at the time, but if we went to watch a magnetogram now, we'd find out. I also said that the situation and sensitivity in this regard were worse than it was in the mid-1990s. I'm sorry about that. Now you're looking at me in amazement, I can go and pull some magnetograms out, and I'll prove it to you, according to your type statements, let's say, a Member who is now a percentage, says, "Yes, our farmers can't compete with the Americans, because we don't futrate cattle with racial hormones" and so on. Now I'm going to go back to the law itself. Violeta's already said something. The United Left has links to the majority, in fact, to all civil society actors operating in this area. It's not something we want to do now. With a whole range of people working on this issue in this country also in the field of scientific research. Mr. Zorčič said yes, one way or another. But my friend Zorčič, maybe in eight or ten years, something else turns out to be toxic. We may have some new knowledge, perhaps it would be good to do so by now. At the same time, through this possible gap and through such an arrangement, these many people, which I mentioned earlier, are making it difficult for them to participate in these processes. I don't even want to come up with some of these stories. You say Schlagwort is an administrative obstacle this year. This is a legitimate administrative obstacle. But you know, it's like drinking methanol or ethanol. Then let's remove the administrative barrier and delete the label, and we won't know if it's one or the other. If you drink wrong, you will be blind, like an ecologically and environmentally blind majority in this House. We will vote against such a decline in environmental standards. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u136	We're voting. 65 Members and Members of Parliament are present. 44 votes against 15. [[44 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 6th item of the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a law on ratification of amendments to the Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans and Dolphins of the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Area. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u137	Dear, President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The proposal for this law is a minor amendment to the basic agreement ratified by Slovenia in 2006. The purpose of the basic agreement on the feeding of whales and dolphins of the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic area is to preserve these populations as an integral part of the marine ecosystem for the benefit of present and future generations. The treatment of migratory species living in a large area is therefore in the interest of the international community and concerted international action is necessary. The activities carried out under this Agreement help the Republic of Slovenia to preserve those types of dolphins that are constantly present in the waters of our jurisdiction and to fulfil those agreed obligations towards the European Union that also require the protection of these species. The amendment of the Agreement increases the area of the Agreement in the Atlantic from the smaller part of the waters under the jurisdiction of Spain and Portugal to the whole waters under their jurisdiction, without the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands. Scientific findings suggest that whale and dolphin living populations are more closely related to the Mediterranean than to the North Seas. The amendment to the Agreement has no additional financial and administrative implications for the Republic of Slovenia. The current membership is approximately EUR 2 000 per year. The ratification of this amendment to the agreement, which is very much pursued by the Principality of Monica, continues to place Slovenia in line with the confidence of the worthy Mediterranean countries and allows continued donor support to the Principality of Monaco and other donors by the Slovenian efforts to preserve the marine environment and protected areas. So far, these support has been given to professional institutions on our coast, the Morigenos and the Marine Biological Station in Piran and the Triglav National Park, for example, by a wider society with a structured infrastructure to view natural sights in Ankaran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u138	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Joint Left Group. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! The Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans and Dolphins of the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Area connects countries from the Mediterranean and Black Sea regions in joint efforts to preserve whales and dolphins in the Mediterranean and Black Sea and to improve knowledge of these animals. The amendment of the agreement extends the areas of the agreement with the current smaller part of the waters under the jurisdiction of Spain and Portugal to all waters in the Atlantic Ocean under their jurisdiction, without the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands, as we have heard. This will make it possible to achieve the objectives of this Agreement more successfully. That the agreement is still important, recent studies on rising underwater noise in areas of agreement hindering animal orientation, feeding, communication, increasing stress and potentially cumulative effects prove important. Noise flares are often covered with underwater habitats. The recent study on toxic compounds in the Mediterranean and the Black Sea also points to the relevance and relevance of the agreement. In the waters of these seas we still find compounds that have been banned for almost a century, and in addition a host of newer by-products of the dirty industry. The most pressing problem is the high levels of PCB compounds, which in marine mammals cause deterioration of the immune system and significantly reduced fertility. For example, the population of Orcs in the waters of Western Mediterranean is on the brink of extinction. The Agreement enables the identification and resolution of all these problems, which are still in place under the seabed of the Adriatic Sea and planned construction of gas terminals in the light of exploration of natural gas and oil. We welcome the regular updating of the provisions of the agreements that strengthen its commitments and the ability to achieve their objectives in the United Left and we will be happy to support ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u140	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, the amendment at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Marko Ferruga has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone! Not only because I come from the coastal area, but because this is mainly important to us the three coastal Members and also to Mr Vatovac and also to Mr Gantar, regardless of the name of this ratification proposal. I must say that there are dolphins in the Slovenian sea, there are quite a few, so it is very important that we sign this declaration. This is also very much supported and supported by SMC, and I will give some more reasons why. Because, in fact, this ratification, as has already been said by the Secretary of State, allows the Principality of Monaco, which has so far been and will continue to support these research and environmental analysis and the operation of whales in our areas, says in the Mediterranean, will also support societies such as Morigenos, one of the major societies and civil initiatives on the Coast, the Marine Station, which is also extremely important for sea exploration and marine habitat, and not least, it will put us within these Mediterranean countries that are responsible for our sea, and we are proud of what we are proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u142	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mate Matthew already explained the scope of the problem in his position. In my mother's language, there's one very nice phrase: Pain in the dick of the sea. And here literally is the fact that the whale sea hurts. I don't know, maybe one of you was lucky enough to see a whale. Beautiful. I've seen the second biggest 20 meters. Of course, that's why I have to support it. But in the United Left we love Mark Ferlugo very much. I don't know why he hasn't crossed over yet. But this attitude, and how did he read it, points to what? All right, I'll buy it with this localism. But it points to some typical duality of this House or some part of this House. We are going to lower when we voted on the previous law, some criteria, but here, in order to be a little bit, my students would say international miggles, and we will support that. Even though you've never seen whales in your life, it's not like he would look at you with that big, beautiful eye. I would like to thank the supporters of the United Left for listening before they start attacking me, the SDS and a young colleague from New Slovenia who voted in the previous law as we did. I hope that even after the EMCHA a little older, but by no means after the charm, the rest of the opposition's colleagues will be encouraged next time in this greening, if we have such a confused coalition in this regard. I hope we can at least get together here. I hope that, Comrade Tanka, in time, we will also unify ourselves to withdraw those wires, and we will live in an environment like this. The United Left will always support such sensibility, but it will not agree to some cheap type of business, we will have lower ecological standards to maintain jobs and so on. Of course, we're dealing with jobs. But, you know, in this House, on the one hand, especially from the coalition, you like to talk about green specialization, about circular economy, and then you are two-faced in this kind of problem. Allergy, I've got a few allergies, and they come to me, and they pass, but the allergy I've had there since I was one third, four years old, is duality. And at least in these whale cases, across the water, it seems to me that we must not be two-faced and the United Left will never be two-faced. It is high time that in this national council we also start to think a little bit about pennies and also translate the externalisation of such costs of pollution, for whales, for ecology, for green Slovenia, for the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u144	We are therefore voting on the proposal for a law on ratification of the Amendments to the Agreement on the Conservation of Black Sea Whales and Dolphins, the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Area. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Mojce Dubravica to the judicial office of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Ionica Marflak Trontel, Secretary of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u145	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Labour Court in Maribor is a specialised first-degree court competent for the trial of individual and collective labour disputes in Maribor, Murska Sobota, Ptuj and Slovenj Gradec. There are currently only 6 judges and the President of the Court in this court. In recent years, this court has left seven judges or judges, either for retirement or for election to the Supreme Labour and Social Court. Of the seven courts, only one was replaced until this invitation to tender. Due to the nature of the disputes that this court is dealing with and which are generally of existential importance to the parties, it is extremely important that the cases be dealt with promptly. In order to ensure the continued success of this court, it was necessary to refer the case to the court in question. In doing so, it should be pointed out that other working courts across the country do not have reserves, so it is not possible to redistribute cases or to relocate judges in this legal area. The invitation to tender included 13 candidates, of which 3 District Judges, with previous judicial experience in other legal areas, one lawyer and the other candidates are professional colleagues or co-workers in different courts. The specific selection process was carried out in two stages through the phase-out of candidates and using different methods to determine the knowledge and abilities of candidates, by means of a view of the documentary documentation and oral interviews. In the first stage of the selection procedure, the Court carried out an assessment of the suitability of candidates for the seat of the Court of Justice on the basis of written documentation, taking into account in particular the final opinion on the candidates applied by the President of the Labour Court in Maribor, the experience of the trial so far, and the average evaluation at the Faculty of Law and the legal examination. Subject to these criteria, he invited nine candidates to the oral interview. All three judges and lawyers, too. On the basis of all the documents and taking into account the oral interview and the opinion of the President of the Labour Court in Maribor, who was also present in the interview with the candidates, the Council of Justice assessed that Mojca Dubravica was a positive candidate. Mojca Dubravica, born in 1978, has been employed since 2006 in the Supreme Court of Maribor as a senior judicial adviser, where she has been working in the civil field all the time. He is currently working for the Office of the President of the Court in addition to his work in the civil field. The senior judges with whom she works assess her expertise and the ability to resolve legal issues as being above average and add that she has very good capacity to reason on decisions and verbal and written statements. They also pointed out that the average amount of work should be carried out, taking fully into account the expected deadlines for individual tasks and that its written proposals for decisions are both professional and highly reasoned or highly qualitative in terms of content and language. Her professional subordination, her creative thinking ability to solve more complex legal problems, and her very good analytical and logical thinking have also been convinced by the Court of Justice in an oral interview where she stood out positively in comparison with other candidates. Its answers to the professional questions raised, both civil, procedural and labour law, confirmed its extensive in-depth expertise from various legal areas, which is necessary in the case-law of the District Court in the Labour Court. The Council of Justice thus assessed that Mojca Dubravica of all candidates was the most suitable candidate for judicial service at the district court in the Labour Court in Maribor and therefore proposed her to the National Assembly for election to that court seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u146	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported and submitted a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We did not have a presentation of the Mandate-Volution Commission, as usual. Let me say that we have been proposing a debate on what is going on with the number of judges on the Commission's terms of reference for several months. Judges need to build their own reputation, and we want to help. Despite the promises, the number of judges still does not drop if we were just before the opening of the judicial year, where it was found that for the first time in so long the number was falling. That is why we expect that the membership and number of judges are connected and that there will be fewer judges. This will also enhance the reputation of judges. As one of the main problems with the reputation of the courts is the career system, the promotion, we have repeatedly highlighted this, and the non-transparent criteria. The criteria were also finally adopted at the initiative of the National Assembly. So that we have the criteria adopted and we have already requested on several commissions that the documentation be accompanied by compliance with these criteria. It is now unclear to me whether these criteria are such that they cannot be implemented or whether someone refuses to implement them. Thus, we have expected and have also adopted conclusions that, in the documentation for the election of the judge, the criteria for how many judgments the judge has delivered and what these results are, are comparable to each other. We haven't gotten that yet. It is also the fact that we have always advocated the principle of progressiveness. If we have more judges, I expect those judges who have already tried to be named higher. Here we had a case of three judges, and if we haven't chosen any of these, I wonder what the system is, and it's a direct mistrust to these judges. I can't accept the fact that judges can, I say, work in any area. It is said that if he worked in another area and wanted to move to the workplace, why we did not transfer one of these judges to this area, but we took a new judge, we increased the number and we could not possibly compare the judge who had already tried with the one who did not judge, and he was only very well described by his mentors. I wonder if then there are some descriptive comparative tests, who is qualified to perform such a criterion. Because of these proposals, because we still did not have the criteria and defined criteria, we cannot support this proposal, although the candidates can be very good, but because of the incomplete documentation in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of this proposal, unfortunately we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u148	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Dubravica as a judge of the Court of Justice of the District Court at the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u149	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Before you is the proposal to appoint a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 75th session. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 12b of the Competition Prevention Act, members of the Council shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to appoint a new member of the Board of the Agency with this proposal. Following the resignation of a member of the Board of the Agency, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued a call to interested candidates for members of the Board of the Agency. Seven applications arrived at the public invitation, six applications were timely and complete. On the basis of the documentation submitted by the applicants in their applications, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also assessed the candidates on the basis of the criteria of expertise and competence. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed that among the candidates declared, Mr Andrej Praha is the most suitable. Mr Prah is a university-graduate lawyer, with a legal exam, has more than ten years of experience in the field of legal science, and he is characterized by a very good knowledge of the legislation and the functioning of regulators. From September 2008 to July 2015, he was employed as Assistant Director of the Securities Market Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, where he led the most demanding legal proceedings. From 1. 8. In 2015, he is employed by Alpen Invest, an investment fund management company, d.d., as head of the legal support and compliance department. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to support the proposal and appoint Mr Andrej Praha as a member of the Council of the Agency for a period of 5 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u150	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Andrej Praha as a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 48 votes against and 1 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Slovenian Radio Television Programme Board on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your word. Radiotelevision shall have two bodies which, by law, propose their candidates to a parliamentary group, namely five members of the Radiotelevision Programme Board, as provided for in Article 17, paragraph 6, and five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV, as set out in Article 26, paragraph 1, expressly stating in both provisions that the National Assembly must take account of the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. Political pluralism, to say the least. And how does the majority in the National Assembly take this into account? In this mandate, we have changed the composition of Radiotelevision's bodies three times in the work of the candidates' proposals by the parliamentary groups three times in respect of the derogations so far. Today's the fourth time. The SMC candidate has been elected every time, and today it will also be because such a proposal is made by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Of the total ten members of the political client quota in both Radio Television authorities, this is said in the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, the SMC will have three members and the SDS will have none. No candidate we have proposed, despite the clear provisions of the coalition law, is either inadequate or perhaps incapable of working in the RTV authorities. In a few moments, we will be deciding about SMC candidate Petri Ložar, who is probably poorly known even by the applicants. This candidate received more votes on the Mandate-Election Commission than recognized professor Dr. Janez Juhant, a theologian, socially very involved, and therefore very recognized, has a very flawless academic career. However, it is also very democratically oriented, but it was not acceptable to the coalition, nor did the provisions of the Radio Television Act help. Although the law commands political pluralism, although it has a clear provision on the relative representation of representatives of political parties, in practice this coalition does not carry out and does not respect. It is unacceptable, however, that the biggest opposition SDS party is ignored and played in this way. It is clear that with such votes the coalition is on its way to unity. It appears that SMC wants to subdue the organs of Radiotelevision and suppress that slightly different view of social and political conditions as it has been so far. The SMC also wants to ensure the functioning of Radiotelevision in the direction of improving the public image of the Government and the coalition, where it is likely that public image and public support are falling sharply due to the inability to make decisions and to face the current challenges. That's why they probably want both the SMC and the coalition to track the path for exclusive programming and monitoring the implementation of the Radio Television programme. We're not going to support SMC candidates, we're going to vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u152	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Slovenia a member of the Radio Television Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues! There won't be as much explanation for the vote as it does, because the SMC Group will vote for candidate Petra Ložar. Petra Ložar is a substitute candidate in some way for SMC or SMC in that institution, but for personal reasons she has returned her mandate and is therefore replaced by Petra Ložar in that function or, as the SDS says, in that quota. And this is also the only member of this institute on Radiotelevision Slovenia, which is legally and legally appointed as the representative of the SMC Group in this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u154	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. The provision that parliamentary groups may also propose to the authorities of RTV their candidates is unlikely to be accidental. However, given that the principle of proportionality is written there, it would probably be logical to expect that the SDS, which is the second largest party in this House, has at least one representative in one or another body of Radiotelevision among the three candidates who have been elected for the fourth time. The SMC, by its vote, in some way does not allow this and obviously wishes to adopt a quota of 30% in the RTV bodies of the political parties, and the SDS does not have one in these two bodies of ten. It is likely that any average citizen can imagine that there are simply no proportionality principles here. That is also why, in the parliamentary group of the candidate proposal, which we do not know, we are probably not going to be very well in the SMC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u156	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 43 votes in favour and 11 votes in favour. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Dr. Janez Brle as a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The mandate shall begin to run from 20.4.2016. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mrs Ursula Zora Tavčar a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The mandate shall begin to run from 23.3.2016. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, Members and Deputy Members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and on the reasons and responsibility for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on International Protection under the ordinary procedure. On Tuesday 1,3.1016, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2016, published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Look, today we can fix the exam from the story that took place at the meeting just two days ago. Something very unusual has happened: the coalition has left its own minister behind. To explain why, in this case, the Minister spoke professionally, well-foundedly, and that you have made a catastrophic mistake for Slovenia, let us now leave politics behind. Let me first describe one term. Last time I used the concept of asylum shopping. And then there were a few questions in the hallway if I made it up. That's why I made one print from Wikipedia, from the legal part of Wikipedia more precisely. If you want, I can also bring some textbook from abroad, but in Slovenia it is almost not. What does an asylum shop mean? From Wikipedia, you can see for yourself the correctness of what I will read: Asylum shopping is a concept used to describe the practice of asylum seekers who apply for asylum in several countries or seek and then apply for asylum in a particular country, after they have gone through other countries, in a given case it is of course for the European Union. This concept is therefore used most in the context of the European Union as well as in the Schengen area, and often also used by the Federal or Constitutional Court, that would be, Canada. This is said to be an indisputable international legal concept. And now, please listen to this, that it will be clear what is going on in Europe and Slovenia, which I have been talking about for months and months, and perhaps it was not clear to anyone. "One of the tasks of the police and judicial branches of government and their involvement in the prosecution of crime is to prevent asylum shopping." Should I tell you again what an asylum shop is? If an application is made in different countries or travels through a secure country to a specific country, the application for asylum shall be made there. It's an asylum shopping. This, under international law, ladies and gentlemen, is being prosecuted as a crime. Exactly what has been happening in the territory of the European Union for months now is therefore a complete crime. It's illegal, it's illegal, allowing it is a violation of the law. But now you understand why I've said so many times that everything about migrants is illegal or illegal? If the law, ratified and established international treaties were consistently respected, none of what has been happening in Europe for months should ever have happened. And none of what entered Slovenia went through Slovenia, went through half a million migrants, and boasted of the flow across Slovenia, should have happened. That's how an asylum shop works. Again, I quote: "One of the objectives of police and judicial cooperation in the prosecution of crime is to prevent asylum shopping." Please go to the English Wikipedia and read it yourself if you don't believe me. Everything is further defined and described in textbooks. Why is this so important for today’s consideration? At the previous session, what happened was extremely unusual. Article 51 was the amendment of the United Left to delete two essential paragraphs, two indents, which prevented asylum shopping. Since it was precisely this amendment that the Minister made an extremely reasoned and fiery appearance, for a very long time she explained the reasons why this amendment was not good, not acceptable, we were confident that it would not be accepted. But apparently, you're the Minister, in your own words, all in a row in the coalition very nice and dry and you're still smoking out of her ears today, because at the end of the day, you're exactly the amendment that she came up against so well and argued legally. And you deleted it. Therefore, we propose again exactly your text, those two deleted indents back, based on the justification presented by your Minister, who holds and is legally the only correct one, is in conformity with international law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u158	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u159	Legitimate, isn't it? Okay. Look, the situation is unusual. I have to show the viewers. The amendment I have in hand was written by the Minister of the Interior, signed by the SMC on the committee and then voted against its own amendment. And now, under this amendment, Jože Tanko is signed. Isn't that funny? So Joze Tanko is signing the Minister's amendment. That's funny, but I need to explain the situation. The amendment proposed by the Minister of State is a smart amendment and you supported it in the first reading, i.e. in committee. The amendment says - what? That the audience would know. That if someone comes from a country of the European Union, he cannot apply for asylum in Slovenia. That's a perfectly logical thing to do. The institution of asylum is the one who flees from a country where war is or is for other reasons known by law and comes to the first safe country and places a role there. Or it may also come to the European Union, if you want, it can come to Greece, it can come to Croatia. He can make an application for asylum there. And there is no reason, according to what Mr Grims said that he would have made up a little of his mind once in Germany and the second in Slovenia for the third time in Austria and then in Croatia, and then he would have chosen what was best for him. This is, of course, contrary to normal logic. Therefore, the Minister's logical proposal was logical, and it was also logical that you supported the committee's SMC and coalition and then voted against yourself. I haven't seen this in all these years in Parliament to make an amendment, and then you vote against it yourself. In the meantime, you know what happened. You know, Mr. Klemenčič said he'd leave the government, then the media found out – what? That you had actually aligned the amendment with the Minister, the media reported, and you coordinated it in the office of Mr President of the Government. This is a media report. And I congratulate you on that, but I don't understand why you're voting against what's coordinated in the premises of the Prime Minister. I ask the Minister, and please, if you give the Minister a chance to come forward in some way, he actually has such a business opportunity, and he says what he thinks about it. What does the minister think about that? The amendment, which has been drafted and which is an excellent amendment, is harmonised in the premises of the President of the Government and then broken by his own party, that is SMC. Do you know we're in an impossible situation? So we want to help you with this amendment. But our help is clear, let us support the Minister, because she has made a wise proposal and there is no reason to be afraid of reactions from Europe. One could say in Europe that this amendment, or this proposal of yours written by the Minister, is problematic. But it could be problematic under former European Union legislation, rules which Germany has already suspended in September or August. And these regulations are no longer with which Mr Klemenčič threatens you. But what's so funny is that a minister of one government threatens his own government, and that's exactly the kind of person I've ever seen anywhere. Let us support the amendment that you, Madam Minister, wrote and supported by you from the coalition on the committee, and then you voted against your own amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. We are therefore proposing an amendment whereby an asylum seeker in Slovenia cannot make an application if he comes from Germany, Austria or Croatia or Italy or any other EU member, which is understandable because he has already been in the EU. Why would he come to our house now? I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u160	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. The debate over the last week was largely about three of the most controversial provisions, whose adoption without doubt would constitute violations of international and European humanitarian law and the Constitution. But despite the fact that we have resolved these three most obvious violations by adopting our amendments, we must not forget that there are still conflicting provisions in the law that reduce standards and guarantees in procedures with international protection. The fundamental changes are already unfounded, unnecessary and reckless. It removes the single cash assistance, which was the only financial means that those who acquired the status received for the first month following their departure from the asylum home. These funds were essential and, by abolishing them, refugees will be in severe social distress in the first months. You have abolished the compensation for private accommodation for persons with subsidiary protection. This is also contrary to international standards which clearly stipulate that refugees and those with subsidiary protection should be treated equally. Even basic guarantees such as the brochure on the rights and obligations of applicants are abolished by law. In recent times, only the most obvious anti-constitutions have been discussed in the public. The fact that we already had a very tight asylum policy and that we have been on the tail of European countries in this regard has been less said. The fact is, with the new proposal, these minimum standards are further reduced and no longer represent a minimum in individual parts. There is no way to overlook this or to underestimate it. Why? As a result of these provisions, the law is likely to be very fast on the tables of constitutional judges. Most likely also before the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union. The amendments tabled under this Article by the SDS and the coalition propose once again a violation of international and European asylum law. The fact that the determination of protection in Slovenia cannot be obtained by anyone who has come to us from another EU Member State has already been a lot of speech and such a provision is, in our view, unacceptable. In the United Left, we keep reminding ourselves that the concept of safe countries is already contrary to the Geneva Convention. This is also pointed out by NGOs. As we believe that, due to the introduction of border procedures and the main objective, which is, of course, to reject and expel applicants as quickly as possible, this provision in practice will have exactly the same effect as the disputed determination of EU Member States, we will not support this amendment. In view of what the President of the Government and the President of the Modern Centre Party took up before the elections, we believe that the coalition should also withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u162	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u163	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the SMC Group and in the Coalition, Article 51 of the Law was aligned with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and at the same time with the European Union Procedural Directive of 26 June 2013, which sets out what are the reasons why the State can treat and reject the role or does not treat it and are listed in taxis. However, if it finds that another Member State is responsible for examining the application, in the event that it comes from a country of first asylum, the State declared a safe third country or that it is based on the prescribed criteria shall be deemed to have specifically prescribed those criteria, it shall be found that the other Member State of the European Union is responsible for the application in accordance with the Dublin Regulation. The concept laid down does not mean that an individual is denied the right to an asylum procedure and is guaranteed to be subjectively treated with all material and procedural guarantees. By adding that it may further restrict the discretion of the authority, since in any case it is necessary to determine whether or not subjective circumstances have been given to an individual, and accordingly to decide in the procedure and to provide him, as has already been said, with all procedural and material guarantees. As far as the Minister's support is concerned, we are absolutely in favour of our Minister, with regard to the change that has been made since our last amendment, we have also explained it. The very provision we have introduced is not directly laid down in the directive I have set out, but it is this recommendation or the conclusions of the Council of Europe that those coming from a secure EU Member State may, in such a case, also be rejected, of course under certain criteria and conditions. Given that this provision is not directly in the Directive and, as Mr Gorenak said, it can be controversial, in this case, we have ensured by our decision that it is in accordance with European law, which does not, of course, mean that our ministers do not support it. Where we agree on this, which space and whom is entirely irrelevant and is relevant only to those who want gossip. As for the statement of the United Left that we have the most stringent legislation, I do not agree with that. Our asylum legislation is in line with the Directive on Minimum Standards, which sets minimum standards and can also be set higher. And our standards are somewhat higher, but in a certain case they have been aligned with the rights that foreigners have, not that we have abolished rights, but that we have aligned them with the concept itself. Similarly, as regards the concept of a safe state, the concept of a secure state does not necessarily mean that someone is already deprived of his right to be treated. It is always subjective, which is also one of the fundamental principles of international protection law itself. The border procedures are also laid down by the Directive, as provided for in the indent in order to reject the application for one who has come from a safe country. By doing so, we are not in any way violating international law or sharpening legislation in contravention of European and international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u164	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u165	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will support this amendment because it follows the only logical move. In her explanation, the Minister, when SMC proposed this amendment, gave the ultimate reason why it should be impossible to ask for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia, including those returned by safe countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Austria. No one has the right of these people to apply for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia. That migrant who comes from Austria to the Republic of Slovenia does not have to take the Republic of Austria into account to accept these migrants, if it has once accepted them and in Austria, for example, they have not received a favourable asylum application. So in Slovenia he will be able to get asylum, will he be able to make a request?Oh, my God! All European countries are exacerbating the asylum state. All European countries, including Austria now with the month of April. Let's not talk about Danish. Germany twice, Sweden. And it's a lot tougher than the one we're taking today. We are the only ones who are saying that we are violating international treaties and acts. You spoke the same way about the quota that Austria has accepted that Slovenia must not do so in order to violate international law. Today, the legal service of the Council of Europe has announced that the daily quotas in Austria are not contrary to international law. Today it's an official document. The quotas must also be accepted by Slovenia in order to know what we are, how many people we will be able to provide, what our capabilities are, both economic and security. Do not blind ourselves to respect international law. Slovenia is becoming an increasingly targeted country, not only for those coming into the European Union from Syria, from other dangerous or safe areas, however, but also for those returned by Germany, Austria, Sweden and the former target countries. This amendment is essentially an extension of the deadline of the Dublin Regulation, which is not in force, and has full international legitimacy. However, if we do not accept this amendment, originally proposed by the SMC, then we will also have the responsibility to increase the number of asylum seekers from Austria, Germany and other target countries, the responsibility to be able here in this territory, in the Republic of Slovenia, to tens of thousands of asylum seekers, those who will be in the asylum process. What legitimacy does Austria have to return these people to us? None. We don't have to accept these people. Have them secure the air bridge. They once applied for asylum in Austria. That's why I support your minister here at this point, because in this case he's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u166	On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that each speaker may discuss the 51st Article and the amendments to this Article only once, with 5 minutes at his disposal. This also applies to the other articles. We vote on such a proposal. My procedural proposal takes precedence over yours and on the basis of this procedural proposal is voted on. Mr Grimes, we are talking about compliance with the Rules of Procedure, my procedural proposal takes precedence over your procedural proposal. Mr. Grimes, a reminder. But you won't regret it. I don't want to. I didn't see a smile. You know that. Let's just calm down. The procedural proposal has priority, there is no explanation for the vote. That's what we're voting on. When we vote, then you have a procedural option. We are voting on such a proposal for a decision whereby the 51st Article and its amendments and the 70th Article and its amendments can only be discussed once, with each debater having 5 minutes. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It was 48 votes against 11. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] The procedural proposal was adopted. Now you have a procedural proposal, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u167	Mr President, I will now say disrespected, because what you are doing is, for the first time, a grave violation of the parliamentary procedure. You did not allow any explanation of vote or other motion before you went to the vote. This is contrary to legal practice and contrary to the rules of procedure, as you well know, and for this you are personally responsible and are unworthy of the functions you perform. What is substantive, however, is that when we discuss the amendment to Article 51, we are deciding on the totally unnecessary material and potential security and political damage to Slovenia, which is unnecessary, because you have deleted the amendment of your Prime Minister and the Minister who was the proponent, you are potentially causing Slovenia, and that in such a case you are taking the word of the opposition to insist on the individual's single advertising, it is scandalous, unacceptable and extremely irresponsible to Slovenia, to taxpayers and to all people in the European Union, because of what is happening in Slovenia, depending on what is happening in Slovenia. What the Minister has proposed is in accordance with international law, you will not even believe, the only one in accordance with international law. What you are doing is a grave violation and additional promotion of crime in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I've already explained to you that asylum shopping is essentially a crime, and that's how international law deals with it. Anyone who doubts that should go to Wikipedia at least once to see what it says about asylum shopping. To do so in such a case is an unprecedented scandal in the history of the Slovenian Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u168	Since I gave you a procedural one, I'm not going to give you another reminder because I've already given it to you. Certainly this was not procedural, it was a debate on whether or not it was procedurally correct. As such, procedurally, there is no room for explanation of vote, no position of the Group of Members. You are well aware that such a procedural proposal is voted on whenever there are many debaters. Those you wanted have already received the floor in the beginning, so you can apply again, and you can certainly discuss it. This is not a limitation of the debate that would be outside the Rules of Procedure and would not be envisaged in the future. All of this is provided for in our Rules of Procedure. We act strictly in accordance with the rules of procedure and respect for the rules of procedure cannot endanger Slovenia, nor Europe, nor anything else. It only ensures the democratic nature of the procedure. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. Anyone else want me to go over the procedure first? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Look, I do not agree with Mr Grims on the subject, but I agree on the procedure. Of course, you lead and explain, but you know that the work of Members is not just sitting here, Members of Parliament are doing something else for the good of Slovenia. In particular, in smaller parliamentary groups, this kind of coalition decision is scandalous. Three are here from New Slovenia, three are here from the United Left, and the largest opposition group is relatively diluted. Well, someone else will check why there is no one, especially in two small opposition groups, we need to share our work by covering more matters. I've been here since Monday morning, then I'll have an EU sequel, I've slept three, four hours in the last four days, a stroke will hit me, and then you're making a fool of us, sir. Please, the procedural proposal is to make you happy. Thank you. When I'm in session, that's not funny. But the second procedural proposal is to turn off the lights and the cameras, because this session, that's me, I don't know what you ate for lunch today all together. [[...]] Thank you. It's not funny, it's not funny! _Other Organiser [[microphone dig]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u170	I mean, now you've gone across every line. We've listened to you a few times today on such a fall. You deserve a reminder for this outburst. However, it is a fact that, if each parliamentary group had announced time in advance, the small parliamentary groups would not have any more time to do so. The fact is that we usually account for such groups of Members so that they can have 5 minutes for each Member. There is no difference from a normal debate in this case and I do not know why such a matter should be made. It only allows for everyone to come forward who wants to discuss this. The procedural proposal has been adopted by Parliament and on the basis of this procedural proposal we will continue to work on Articles 51 and 70. Anybody want to talk? Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Pre-procedural Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. What you have done now may, in some way, be in that context an interpretation of the rules of procedure and what you can afford as President, but it is definitely not right and, on the other hand, not something that would be agreed upon by a democratic debate in the National Assembly. I also take this decision and the adoption of this decision, without allowing for a preliminary procedure, as in some way playing out what certain parts of the opposition might have commented on in this case. From the first day that this law came into the National Assembly in some way by being accepted as soon as possible, to get through certain amendments and provisions which, on the one hand, are constitutionally disputed, internationally disputed, and this has happened so quickly on the working body, then thank God in some way the coalition has found that it has made a mistake and some things have been corrected. Today, you are coming back with amendments that are returning to a situation that is in some way unconstitutional and can also cause some damage to the state as such, and that is why we are now limiting the debate to 5 minutes on a Member who can only speak once, which in my opinion is in some way nothing but a simple usurpation of the voting machine and an attempt to silence the opposition. I propose that in some way we try to reconsider this, we reverse that vote and allow this debate to take place in a way that affects a democratic institution, and that is that we can discuss peacefully. I understand it's Friday night and everyone probably wants to go home, but in one thing, I agree with my colleague Grims. This marriage is important, and it has the destiny of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u172	I don't understand what a procedural proposal is. We do not have to discuss again because a decision has been taken and when the National Assembly adopts a decision, this Decision is in force. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Look, it is scandalous that the President of the National Assembly proposes to limit the debate without a reasonable explanation why this is necessary. The amendments were barely tabled today, we had two debates on this Article 51, and suddenly a matter becomes tense for the President and proposes such a non-democratic intervention. Look, it's perfectly normal and it's fitting that the topic that the whole country is talking about is to actually clarify whether the claims that we have proposed with our amendment are practically a magnetogram of the position of the Minister of Home Affairs, or whether these claims are not standing; and you're obstructing it. Until now, the amendments tabled in Article 51 have not been defined by the Government. This is most normal for the Government to say what it supports to say whether the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment is acceptable, which is justified by its explanation and by the content submitted by the coalition, or whether any deformation of what is at stake with international acts and many others is acceptable. And you take the right to prevent any debate, reasoned debate, in-depth debate on a solution that could have fatal consequences for Slovenia. To legalise the pocket, it is the law of the pocket that Slovenia will be the pocket of the migrant crisis. It's nothing but the law of the pocket. I think, Mr President, that you should not, on an unjustified basis, afford such a proposal by unwarranted intervention and the application of the Rules of Procedure. Your procedural proposal has no advantage over another procedural proposal. None at all! You're a Member like us, you can suggest like us, absolutely nothing else. But you can take the right as you have taken it, and you decide by will and you take the right to propose and to discuss their matters. The prevention of the debate on the amendments to the asylum law, and all of this is only because of the coalition's developments, so that we can understand each other, this process has not now been created because of the opposition's insistence, but because of the fact that this has happened in the coalition, it is the least that is completely irresponsible. Irresponsible from the President of the National Assembly. Now, if you want to respect minimum standards, then the debate should be opened and you would expect that. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u174	We have a procedure. I'll answer that first. The longer the procedural period, the less we will discuss. So, at this point in time, with procedural proposals, you are restricting and impeding the debate. Otherwise, you're trying them. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please! I am responding to a procedural proposal. My decision or motion for a decision of the National Assembly was taken on the basis of the proposal referred to in Article 67(5) of the Rules of Procedure. My procedural proposal is first in line and I made it first. The moment it is said, it must be decided and you know that there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. That is exactly how it always was, whenever we were limiting the debate to five minutes. I have seen that there will be many more debaters; those who have reached the word in the first round will be able to get another word, so there is no problem. Of course, I will see from the debate whether it will actually be spent that much time. There is a class order of procedure. First procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u175	Due to the Slovenian public accompanying this, it appears that this is the first time that a decision has taken place in this mandate. proposed by the President of the National Assembly to limit the fact that, for the first time, it is five minutes and that everyone can have only one debate. Let me remind you that the ZUJF was exactly the same; there was the President of the National Assembly, then Gregor Virant, who suggested that everyone could discuss us once and for five minutes and yet there was a debate, because you know that this – even if this is accepted – could mean a few hours. The second thing that seems important to me, at the time of the previous term, at the time of Alenka Bratušek, when the budget and the Real Estate Act were adopted, was even made in such a way that the debate was first held and some of them discussed five times, six times, and because we saw that this, without going to take until seven in the morning, as it is, but will last for a period of two days, a procedural proposal emerged and it has been decided the same way and nothing was wrong. Now to talk about some democracy, how something is limited, I find it extremely bizarre, especially because it is a parliamentary practice. I understand, but of course, I accept the obvious that it can be someone's concern. Of course, everyone has this right and it has been expressed. I mean, given that the decision has been taken that we do absolutely nothing wrong in procedural terms. Therefore, I propose that we stop this discussion about whether or not it is because we are actually using Members only when we are doing something good – the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, it's the rules of procedure, and I really don't see any reason why we're doing a lot of worrying about it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u176	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. I admit I'm a little confused. I don't know the answer to one question. You said you proposed something under the rules of procedure. Who explains the rules of procedure when the President of the National Assembly proposes something? Are you going to explain to yourself? Do we have this problem, obviously, which we will have to settle in accordance with the rules of procedure, sir? And we're having a very serious conversation. That's another thing. I don't know where you came from to argue that you just took it if we want to make it clear that you're going to shorten the debate, Mr President of the National Assembly. Okay, I understand that Jani, with the experience he's got, has come into the coalition and that you've done it now. It's Friday — so what? It's Friday, well, 17 hours we've had an empty debate about Karl Erjavac, and you're going to talk about this kind of stuff, and I can't say anything else. There are a lot of you in the coalition, but if you're having trouble with what he's saying, I don't know, Mr Grims, what I'm saying, what my colleagues are saying, what Mr Vinko Gorenak is saying – he's a little offended, maha – or anyone from the opposition, you can get out. During the interpolation, you were running a shunder here so I couldn't listen. I mean, let's get real! My procedural proposal is to suspend the session in half an hour because you have a warm head, let us all calm down and then let us vote on what Mr Vatovec has actually proposed – sorry, comrade – but obviously you have not understood that due to overheat we are voting on the repeal of this Decision for the substantive reasons I have already said. In particular, in opposition smaller parties, we have such a division that one must cover more matters. Of course you can vote it out. We can move on. I've been dying of shame since then, and I was thinking at a closed session to say, but now that you've provoked me so much, I'll be open when I go to parliamentary diplomacy, and I'm very ashamed when a lot of diplomats remind me how we're going. I guess you're even more ashamed of being a protected person, and now we're gonna keep doing this here. Let us take this national assembly seriously, for otherwise the opposition will have nothing but that we will be, what – we will not be at the meetings, we will carry out the obstructions all the time if you are going to go. Then say this to Jani on behalf of you, we'll go to obstruction by the end of the term, and we'll be in the basement of the National Assembly – I don't know, we'll boil beer! My procedural proposal is to suspend the sitting for half an hour, please vote on this, because you are obviously overheated heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u178	This proposal will not be voted on and put to the vote. Dr Jože – not a doctor – Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I propose that if it is not already decided in the coalition that at least you who are in charge of the meeting begin to think. Today, we are not bound to any deadline, to the time limit that we should accept it because of any deadlines. If there were any hands behind the publications and other consequences, this would be understandable, but they would also support such a matter, since it is not a matter of ignorance. However, in order to prevent a few discussions in this article, after two or three discussions, further discussion and to block those who have said something about it – and this is smart to understand – and then the problem is for the president if he comes with such a proposal that he does not allow the arguments put forward by the amendments to be reasonable. This does not have a logical basis and a zoning basis in your proposal. You know, if we were to go left, right, up, down and shake the crap out of here, you'd understand. But the discussions were held properly, in an argumentative manner, they said what the consequences were if one, the other or the third solution was adopted, and you were simply preventing a debate on this. We're only talking about argument for consequences. Otherwise, a large majority of the debates may have already taken place by the time we are dealing with your process proposal. However, to warn you, this meeting will be open until three in the morning, because if all the parliamentary groups use the suspension instrument for 45 minutes, this will also last indefinitely. At this time, we could have ended the session three times, but with such decisions that only revolutionize without a basis, that's exactly what you're doing. The one who pilots the back and directs the coalition's procedural decisions must be well commended and given some reward for doing the ultimate stupidity. However, it is a problem, Mr President, that the Slovenian public is likely to want to know what the views of the parliamentary groups are, what will be the potential consequences for such a decision, who will be responsible, who will pay for it, whether they will again plead for the political decision and the vote and decisions of the National Assembly. For this decision, Mr President, it is likely that personal responsibility will have to be taken. We should have done it eventually. Because we are talking now about 50 to 100,000 people who will suddenly find themselves in Slovenia, because they can't go anywhere else, but you will pay. Or us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u180	I'm going to answer that procedural question first. Then we have another procedural one, then I'll give you my word. My proposal was completely corrected and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I figured it out. You could talk for 105 minutes. Your group is so large. So more than what's possible at the usual point. Except, of course, when it's double time. That's almost no point. In the second, on reasonableness, intelligence and other matters, I will not go into evaluating this. I am embarking only on whether it makes sense to limit the debate, and I have made this proposal. The National Assembly could have turned him down. It was confirmed by the National Assembly. Dr. Dragan Matić has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It was heard by the opposition about overheated heads, but shouting was heard only on the left and on the right today. There's a word about obstruction. Now, right now, the opposition, and on the left and on the right, is obstructing this session when it repeats procedural proposals that are not. Repeats always one and the same, no additional proposal shall be heard. It's probably up to you now to judge if you allow this obstruction to continue. I don't think it makes sense because there are no new procedural proposals on the left or right. They've all exhausted the contents. My colleague Jani has already told us how many times he has used this institution, which you democratically put to the vote, in the near past, not so far. And he was voted. It is in the interest of someone here to try to create an impression of emergency situations, because they have failed to prevent this procedural proposal, which is fully in line with the rules of procedure and in accordance with what is prescribed and also provided for in democratic procedures, by the rules of procedure applied. I think this is completely unnecessary, which is now being done here. Time is running out. If within 105 minutes the SDS party is unable to present its arguments against the proposed solution, then this is a clear sign that it is a matter of ordinary exhaustion and repetition that is always new and new and always new. What appears from these procedural proposals, which are completely, identically, we have been listening now, I don't know, for almost half an hour. So, I suggest you check to see if they have anything new to do with these procedural proposals, otherwise we can sit here until midnight and listen to the same copy-paste principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u182	Procedural? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you, President. What is happening to us here is clear evidence of some abuse of this so-called procedural institute in the first place, the first one, and clearly points to some undemocratic decision-making. We heard when this happened – ZUJF. Clearly, there was also an attempt, under such a controversial law, to limit the debate. Of course, the opposition was probably loud at the time. Now this debate, as it is now limited, will not be the same. And that's not true. On the one hand, there are probably some smaller groups of Members such as ours, we have a division of work and certain Members cover certain topics and we could probably discuss them more than once. Now, of course, according to some paper-reading logic, then larger coalition parties can, of course, only then actually take advantage of those I don't know how many minutes, but that's not the case for everyone. Among other things, Mr President, I would also like to remind you that you do not respect the order of procedural proposals. I checked in three times, and it's my turn right now. I have two suggestions. The first procedural proposal is the one Dr. Duck said before. In short, to take some time off to actually ensure some proper management of this meeting, because it seems to me that it is no longer in those stratagems that were needed. My second procedural proposal is to put to the vote a decision repealing the decision you have proposed with your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u184	On what basis should we do so? [[advertising from the hall]] No, but this base is only for restriction and nothing else. It's exactly in the rules of procedure, and that's how it is. We don't do this anymore. I'm not putting it to the vote. He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky. I hope it's new.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u185	First of all, this is absolutely not funny to me, Mr President. Second, of course, it can be smart on the SMC side. Recently, a day, two days ago, and you didn't realize that Mr Grims could speak for an hour until Jani obviously took you to school and taught you. The result of this horror that is now happening will be – what? It will be that we will have another interpolation against you, that we will announce double time, that we will kill another day to support you, and that you will not be suspended. That'll be one consequence. The second result will be that all three parties will take advantage of the right to a 45-minute break. But these are minor consequences. The key result is that someone is so masochistic that he has not already turned off television screens to watch it. And I, who is probably the most rude here, now have to play the greatest gentleman — those words that you like to say here, I'm already a little allergic to them. Therefore, once again, I propose a new procedural proposal that will bring together what I have proposed, as proposed by the other colleagues, and the addition will be: half an hour's interruption, a vote to annul the decision. What happened this week was that certain people were burned to death. My colleague Dr. Patch would say, "I'm a body and I have a body at my disposal." We're more fit, we're less fit. The third proposal is for you to agree with the Vice-President and Vice-President who will continue this meeting this half-hour. That's what I'm serious about, colleague Milan, for you and my health. Maybe someone's gonna get a stroke from the two of us, and I don't know if we have a resuscitation anywhere near here. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u186	There's a reanimator in the hall. Certainly, your procedural proposal is not justified. Procedural proposal [[advertising from the hall]] On the basis of Article 69, it will be sufficient. [[…]] [[…]] Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. See, in each Parliament there are two; one is written down by legal standards; the other is one legal practice. Also, what you have now referred to, for example, is the reduction of the debate or the limitation of the debate on a one-time marriage at the time of Mrs Alenka Bratušek is an incomparable matter. There the debate lasted several hours and there was also a repetition of one and the same and then, on the grounds that the extreme curfew was, in fact, a decision was taken. This decision was adopted without justification after only two discussions. This is completely incomparable and does not comply with legal practice. Secondly, Mr President, and this concrete proposal will be addressed to you: if your own legal practice and your interpretation are to apply, then the proposal of the honourable fellow Member that a half-off should be made, because he once again specifically requested a vote, should be put to the vote immediately and without discussion if you respect the exact same norm and the same conduct as you have consistently enforced in your own case, and this is ruthless. However, you have not done so, which means that you have double rules to clearly violate the Rules of Procedure and therefore my procedural proposal is to remove yourself from this city and leave Parliament to someone who is an adult who is a Democrat, who will lead the meetings of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u188	Your motion for action has been rejected. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues! President, my procedural proposal is that, in the light of the very important consideration of this law, which has turned into an inappropriate farce once again of parliamentary democracy, and this is by no means responsible for the content that we are considering today and which we will discuss, reconsider your decision. And in the light of what we are telling you here, colleagues from the opposition, as I believe that through all these comments, we have put some thought into our own mind about what our first task and primary mission is. This is certainly not the establishment of some kind of unrest and impatient dialogue when we consider substantive legislative proposals, but rather responsible consideration and debate on these substantive proposals, not on procedural proposals. Therefore, once again, I call on you to reconsider and re-vote your proposal. I will vote against your proposal in the light of everything the opposition has said to limit the debate in this way. [[advertising from the hall]] I will vote against in the light of what you report, and I think that this is a priority and that this is crucial and that the weight of your arguments is stronger than the fact that we are fighting this debate in an operational time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u190	Okay. In view of everything that I am about to undo this proposal, I can do the same. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course you can, of course you can! At first I held on to it, and now I see that I will also get from the largest coalition to cancel it. Why would I do that? I'll put it to a vote. Okay. Let's calm down. I'll put it to the vote and then we'll take a 15-minute break. I'll give her a heads-up. We are therefore voting once again on this proposal for a restriction and I ask you to vote against it. We're starting the vote. We are voting again now. We're voting. Ten minutes off. We're voting for the third vote in 10 minutes. It's 8:05. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u191	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I remind you that, on the basis of Article 83, we are voting for the third time on a decision on the restriction of voting as previously put forward, i.e. the restriction of voting to five minutes per Member in each of these two Articles. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member Third vote. Whoever is in favour of this restriction votes against. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 18.]] I'm opening a debate. Who wants to discuss Article 51? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. We are kind of discussing the so-called Article 51 of the Law, which is that somehow it will also be clearer for those accompanying this meeting. This is essentially an article that, through the amendment of the coalition, came into the bill itself. This is an article that we have supported in the debate itself, as far as the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, all the time. This is also an important article from the point of view of the so-called effect of deterrence measures. The Minister has talked a lot about this, of course these so-called deterrent measures are not only in Slovenia, it is about other countries taking such measures, and it is about a broader agreement on how to limit what is called migrant shopping and, on the other hand, help those who really need help. These are fugitives on the run, families, children, mothers. It is, then, that it is clear and accurate: the one who needs help and those who take advantage of it. Therefore, given that two proposals have been tabled; it is said that the Slovenian Democratic Party is a proposal which the coalition then rejected in the debate on the law in the National Assembly again by supporting another amendment, I am interested, Minister, in your opinion. In particular, which of the proposed two amendments is more useful and to the greater benefit of the country of Slovenia as well as in terms of compliance with the other countries which have already tightened migration legislation and have quoted much higher standards and strengths in the European scale. The Minister, indeed, on behalf of the citizens, not only on behalf of myself, I invite you to tell me which of the amendments is more useful this moment in the given situation. I think that your opinion is more than important, I will not be embarrassed by the fact that someone no longer trusts you in the light of your thorough explanations and I think it is very argumentative that this debate is unnecessary, but I would actually like your expert opinion on which of the amendments would be needed at a given time to be adopted in the National Assembly. As far as the rest is concerned; of course, the amendment of the United Left cannot be supported, namely that migration legislation needs to be tightened. In Slovenia, too, I believe that this law is not as valid as it would have been from the point of view of the situation in the country, but above all, it is important that those who are refugees, even under some of the other amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, feel good, safe and secure in Slovenia – if they are a refugee. But if he's a migrant, of course you can add, add, give more, and that won't be enough. Minister, indeed, if I may, I ask for your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u193	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u194	After this procedural fiasco, the Minister of State must also be amazed at how the National Assembly works. But look, two reasons that are very important for us to accept this amendment, followed by an amendment proposed by the SMC delegation weeks ago. The first reason is for sure an increase in the number of asylum applications. In view of the fact that the northern European Union countries, the target countries for migrants, tighten asylum legislation to close their borders, this article is necessary to amend it so that anyone who comes to the Republic of Slovenia from a third country of the European Union is said to be from a European Union country, from a safe country, that he cannot apply for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia. And a second time. We're witnessing a return migratory wave. In fact, all those who once went across the Republic of Slovenia and here did not apply for asylum, did not submit to the Age of Applications, but only wanted to offer them transport further to Austria, Germany, Austria, Germany, and if we do not make this change, they can apply here for asylum. We are not entitled to this because it is not someone who needs help when someone has already been in a safe country of the European Union, in Germany, Austria. They rejected him from Austria for such and other reasons because he did not meet all the conditions for obtaining asylum status. This return migratory wave is forecast to be very strong. Austria, Germany say thousands of people will be brought back. These people prefer to apply for asylum in Croatia, Serbia – or you think they will go back to Syria or Afghanistan – to apply for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia. And these can be thousands, tens of thousands, all depends on the tightening of asylum laws in Austria and Germany. Then it'll be too late to ring the bell! For this reason, we must urgently protect ourselves with this amendment to this Article in order to ensure, in particular, the security aspect and our economic capabilities, how many people we can take care of. But if we do not do so, then we will be able to face the fact that tens of thousands of people in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia will apply for asylum status; that is, those persons who did not meet the conditions in Austria. We have to stop them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u195	There's a Master Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you. This panic in the running of the National Assembly is understandable if we know that today the Council of the European Union legal service has confirmed quotas, are legal and the European Commission has only said – we have not been aware of it. That's what they say, quotas are legal, ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean in practice? That the SDS proposal for the referendum is also fully legal and consistent with international law. Then I believe panic here is understandable. Today is a historic day at all, for today is officially announced that the pope has declared that there has been an Arab or Muslim invasion of Europe, and secondly, that you are probably all aware that in Germany, within a few days of the election, there have been significant changes in Germany, even until the discussion in this area – in all, without exception. What does that mean in practice? Tusk said, "Migrates, stop coming!" What a difference from just a few months ago! In short, things are changing dramatically, and the flow is about to turn. What is crucial to this article 51 is what I said at the outset to prevent asylum shopping. Asylum shopping under international law is purely a crime, and the one allowing it is also a criminal. That is to say, if you do not return that amendment, which was essentially your text, it was created even in the Office of the President of the Government, as we can read, with the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister – the President of the Government is, by the way, a constitutional lawyer – and is confidently the only legal correction; not only is he in compliance with international law, but he is only legally correct, which prevents asylum shopping, which is a crime – and all that is happening at this point is asylum shopping, that there will be no misunderstanding – then all those who vote against this amendment will actually commit a criminal act. Think about it. However, I would like to hear very much that the Minister would present her position on the SDS amendment, which is fully supported by her own debate at the previous meeting, is quite summed up because it is appropriate and professional and holds. What some have misinterpreted is also what international law means in the field of asylum shopping and what this amendment includes with your former text, with the text of the government or coalition. What does international law say? International law, the European law, as stated here on this page – you can check all of this for yourself if you do not believe me – says, inter alia, that the decision of the first country where asylum is sought is final and applies to the whole of the European Union. If someone is rejected at the border, he has previously declared that he is going to get asylum — or later rejected in the process, or committed a criminal act, admits it, or anything else; in short, he has tried to do his job there — this is true even for the European Union. There is no logic in what the state of Slovenia is currently doing, that people who are rejected elsewhere, then return to Slovenia or go through, go back to Austria, send them back and then ask for asylum in Slovenia, we are dealing with what we are doing. Under international law, we are not obliged, under international law, only to send a person to the first safe country where it came from. It's the first safe country, by the way, Turkey. It's not even Greece that there's gonna be a misunderstanding. Or another country where this person started. That is the essence of this story, and that is the only thing legal under international law, ladies and gentlemen. Let's get this straight. All that is happening now in the area of the migrant crisis and so-called refugees, which are not, in the European Union area, under international law, because of asylum shopping alone and only crime. And the only way to prevent this, and the reference you have in your amendment, by which you tried to embellish your own stupidity, is to refer to international acts. You know, international acts apply directly, they don't have to be written in our law. All ratified international treaties, all international rules which bind the State of Slovenia, apply directly, do not need to be written into law. Thus, what should be written in law is one clear and unequivocal text that will give the last man a clear signal that there will be no asylum shopping!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u197	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that the amendments did not understand the genealogy that led to the deletion of Article 51 or those provisions. Why they've been stripping, we've seen it. On the one hand, indeed, this amendment in such a form has already brought the coalition to its mother's working body in the first place. But apparently it took them a long time to figure out how much nonsense they were doing. Only then did this great legal knowledge really come into play and find that something might not be right. This was the reason why the amendment of the United Left was adopted and why these provisions were deleted. Now, on the one hand, to return them means to take a step back, it is said, to go back to some kind of regression, which does not ultimately mean to some extent also contradict what is the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, for example, that Greece and Italy have clearly already determined that they are not safe in the country and that they cannot, or that it is in some way illegal to return asylum seekers to those countries because they pose a particular personal threat to them. In short, we discussed what is proposed in broad terms on Tuesday. In some ways, we have also managed to push civil society to the point where awareness of the problem of these provisions has somehow been anchored. Today, dear colleagues from SDS, you return them. Clearly, of course, this is part of what comes with your rhetoric or your position, which in some ways says very harshly not to anyone. But the truth is, this law already makes it possible. The provisions, as enshrined in this law, are very simple: in Slovenia virtually no one will be able to apply for asylum. Thus, on the one hand, the concern is over; the law is already sharp enough, for in reality it can no longer be exacerbated. Kozlović said earlier, in the first part of this debate, that she did not agree that Slovenia had one of the strictest laws. This, of course, may be a matter of agreement or disagreement. The fact is that the current KICs have taken all those provisions that are in the European directives and this, of course, represents a minimum. This is already the lowest state of strictness that exists. Of course, the same directive provides that countries may, or even travel to, where possible, allow for wider rights and freedoms as far as this legislation is concerned. With regard to the concept of a safe state, I don't think there's much point in losing words. It's kind of like saying to deaf people, "Good morning." The concept of a third country of security is virtually contrary to all international acts, but certainly also to the Geneva Convention, this has been highlighted several times, and insistence is, of course, a major mistake. Colleagues from SMC also mentioned border procedures to be laid down by the Directive. I do not see this in the directive in the way my colleagues in the SMC interpret it. ZMZ-1 introduces border procedures which will be accelerated, these are two facts, but this very general provision, as enshrined in the law, is directly contrary to the directive to which they refer. Article 31 of this Directive makes clear when Member States may determine the application of the accelerated procedure, which is the illegal entry into the Republic of Slovenia and the suspicion that it poses a threat to national security. Just as this border procedure, which is an accelerated procedure enshrined in the current law, it goes much wider and, of course, enables this accelerated procedure to be misused in some way. The Directive also provides that, in the case of border procedures, Member States may provide for the testing of decisions by official duty, which clearly indicates the gravity of the requirement for specific protection of fundamental guarantees in such procedures. And we have in this law, and this amendment alone, gives this – Mr President, please ensure peace in the Chamber – a basis for mass extermination [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u199	Silence [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u200	from this country, and on the other hand, that their judicial protection is lifted. [[…]] But about this later on with the other amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u201	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. We have witnessed a schizophrenic situation in the National Assembly all the time; on the one hand, it explains one opposition party or even two that we will have hundreds of thousands of refugees here, on the other hand, an explanation that no one will be able to come to our country. So this schizophrenic situation on both sides is really a little funny. Indeed, what has now been said in the end as regards border procedures, as regards a safe country, as regards accelerated procedures; that is, these are all the things laid down in the Directive itself. I don't know what's in the United Left or the other, when they're always talking about lawyers and I think it's irrelevant what a Member is after his education. However, I think it is important that we respect the provisions or comments of the Legal and Legislative Service and here we have followed what the Legislative and Legal Service has said. I also wonder what the United Left is going to do if it so strongly opposes what the United Left says and what is set out in the directive itself or in another act directly applicable. So, once again, in our country, the Law on International Protection is laid down in a way that everyone can apply for this status, and everyone is provided with an objective and subjective treatment. The objective does not exclude subjective ones, even if a country is declared a safe country, even if it has come from a country where it has already applied for asylum or if another country is responsible for it, it is still necessary to treat it individually. Of course, it can happen that these applicants are large, but it is necessary to ensure that everyone and under the same conditions is treated and, on an individual basis, also to issue an appropriate decision and to provide them with appropriate legal guarantees.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u203	Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you, President. I would only suggest that a halftime break be ordered, that everyone present may take so much time to at least understand, legal terms, study and properly speak about them. Previously it was said that a third safe country was a strange concept. A third safe country is an established concept of international law, which speaks of someone who is an actual refugee and who asks for asylum to apply for ratings in the first safe country and has this right only there because the principle of non-refoulement and the principle of non-refoulement applies. As it goes, he's a migrant. And if you choose where he goes, it's an asylum shopping that you can see if you go to the library or if you're looking at the Internet now, you know the address of Wikipedia is purely a crime. If we truly understand and respect these things once and for all, we will have no difficulty in harmonising that what was the original text of the law was deleted as those unfortunate two paragraphs of Article 51, in this part the only international legal right and acceptable. And whoever claims otherwise doesn't know international law or misinterpret it. This is what happens to everyone, including the European Commission, because I said earlier that their own legal service is now putting them in a very awkward position when it said that quotas are completely legal. Why? It's about the asylum shopping, because no one here is a fugitive at all. They're all migrants. They're all illegal migrants. And it's up to the state whether he admits this status to someone or not. But she doesn't owe anyone. If you take so much time, and therefore propose this half hour of pause to study the actual Geneva Convention, its Protocol and circumstances which are essential for understanding, the circumstances of its acceptance, you will see that, at the same time, the Geneva Convention adopted a position – that is, a binding explanation if you wish – that it does not oblige anyone, no country to accept one asylum alone, does not oblige anyone, except the first safe country, according to the principle of non-refoulement, that is to say that no one at the border will return to a dangerous area and in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement. For he may also permit illegal border crossings, but only the first safe country, because it is considered an urgent crime, because he could not otherwise do so. It is not that the whole of Europe is doing so, as it is in the present case. This is a purely ordinary crime for which all those policies in the European Union that allow it are responsible. I hope that's finally understood.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u205	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking. [[…]] Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The process proposal was given, but before we decided on it, I would still suggest that you stop the meeting, that we meet the leaders of the parliamentary groups at one meeting and agree on how to proceed with this meeting. I think it's some rational suggestion. I don't think there's any problem, because water doesn't burn, it's our decision today or how else we're forcing it to work out how to do it. There's more than one possibility. As the National Assembly, we may request the opinion of the Government, which we do not have for these amendments, we may request the opinion of our Legislative and Legal Service, which we do not have in these amendments. These are the business reasons for the suspension of the sitting, but we can also decide to hold a debate and decision at one of the next meetings, which will be held soon. It may also be an extraordinary meeting, there is no problem, but I suggest that this heated situation, when it is simply not possible to get the right information, nor can the Government, but let us take advantage of this business option, which we are allowed by Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure and Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure — one or the other. Now we're negotiating and proving to each other who's more right. However, the Rules of Procedure allow us to also impose on the Government in these cases to define the amendments tabled, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service, but we can stop the meeting and then study and decide on the proposals at one of the following meetings in peace. I propose that one of these two business options be used or used, and I will say, we are trying to bring the overheated debate to a level of argument, not some other way or technique. I suggest you do it. Look, judge, we can agree on what we would do, but there is absolutely no rational reason to reject, gain an opinion of the Government to the amendments tabled and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service to the amendments tabled. This is probably for our decisions in so diametrically opposed positions as we have in the parliamentary groups, probably one of them or one of the aids that will try to answer the questions raised. So I propose that the President, first of all, decide on Article 73 to obtain the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and then that the point should also be interrupted as a result.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u207	I therefore put to the vote this proposal, the suspension and the acquisition of the opinion of the PSC under Article 73(3). We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 36. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. The Minister of the Interior made a statement on this matter. [[…]] Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u208	Dear Mr. President! Ms Kozlović, speaking earlier in her reply to my discussion, stated that the proposals were in line with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and she spoke about proposals that had come to the Committee of the Labour Authority, which had not been consulted by the Legal and Legal Service. These were opinions on the first draft of the law, as of course follows the procedure, and what we later received, and also the amendments that are on the bench today, are not in line with the Legislative and Legal Service. We are now in a situation where in some way we are arguing on the one hand that things are in line with all of them, that they are consistent with what the Legislative and Legal Service has stated, and on the other hand, we obviously do not have these opinions or are not familiar with all the material. I see this in some way again as some kind of act, of course you put it to the vote, but I suggest that this opinion be provided in writing and that the meeting be suspended at that time when this material is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u209	Given that at least one of the amendments was exactly the same as it was at the second reading, and that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was given, I do not understand why that opinion would not be the same as that given today. At least for one of these two amendments. This isn't about acting. Procedural? Mr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade and Comrade, thank you very much for this procedural part! Of course, colleague Vatovec, we also appreciate your efforts as President of the Rules of Procedure Commission and I know that you are careful to ensure that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are taken into account, as it is written, as is Parliamentary practice, and, if necessary, what we are also saying about how to proceed. It is not right that you used my colleague Mag's debate in your procedural proposal. Lilliana Kozlovich, on what she said in her debate, was a procedural issue. The key story here is that colleague Kozlovich said very well that we follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly on issues and we have also announced and have also communicated publicly not only in the National Assembly, but also in the media, that we have seen the weight of the issues and that we have discussed them. That is why, of course, it is also not appropriate in this way, as the SDS had previously discussed that certain solutions had arisen in the office of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the presence of the Minister and so on and so on. Many discussions have been under way and, of course, the media themselves have been informed that there are well-founded, serious debates on all the issues that have arisen open after the meeting of the parent working body, which was held by our President, Mrs Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich did the right thing. And, of course, we had an argumentated debate there and, of course, I also appreciate the proposals made by the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to give an argumentable debate and, of course, that is our only purpose. If we have finally come after a year and a half to this point, that mature knowledge that this knowledge has also matured, that we should give a reasoned debate, it is my procedural proposal to continue in this direction and to argue, regardless of the fact that we have witnessed, of course, various protests, demonstrations, whatever they are called. And it is ours that our electorates, our constituents, our citizens find out that we are seriously discussing issues, the challenges ahead, without hate speech, without aroused passion in people, how they should view these decisions. In front of us, as I have already said on the Committee on Internal Affairs, Dr Gorenak will be able to confirm, when I say, that we are considering the Law on International Protection, no other law that we are coordinating with international acts and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u211	Another procedural one? Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I don't know if I'm out of my mind or not. Mr. Law Doctor abused the procedure because he started to explain something. I've read this book a few times. You said it yourself. Will you give him a reminder? No, I mean, I'm serious. It seems to me that this has become so heated that we cannot deal with such a serious point normally, let alone make a fool out of parliamentary democracy, in form. That is why my proposal, it seems to me, that Mr Tanko has already proposed this – I too have physiological needs, I was not present here – to interrupt this meeting now, that the head of the parliamentary groups or deputy leaders of the parliamentary groups gather for half an hour, think about it and that we are seriously continuing this meeting on Monday's reserve date. This is what I agree with the gentleman who spoke before me, although he once again debated and abused the rules of procedure, that it is a very serious subject that this unacceptable burka and literal jesting from the form of the National Assembly are happening. I'm gonna step down or I'm gonna lose my mind here. This is no longer a parliament, Mr. Brglez! Thank you, colleague Han. I'll come to you to make the stoppers, and I'll spend the rest of my family with it. Please consider my proposal, whether you put it to a vote or if you choose, because this, I don't know, is very rarely lacking in words, and now I am running out of them to describe it with some decent words. The topic is too serious, the situation is too serious, the coalition is not serious, you're exhausted. This can no longer continue normally today. We have a problem when we need almost, I don't know, 10 years to figure out how someone misshared, I don't know, 240, and we haven't fixed it before. Now we're going to work on such a serious subject in such a burka way. We're not a comedy buffalo, we're a parliament! So I'm asking you for a half-time break, get together, remember, and my proposal would be well-intentioned to continue on Monday. Until then, ladies from the Legislative and Legal Service, I hope, will sleep, which are top-notch lawyers, will do well, and that we will carry out this procedure in the way that the National Assembly is supposed to be. Because otherwise, I'm really gonna cheer Han up and go to social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u213	I'm putting to the vote a motion for a half break. [[advertising from the hall]] That's the sequel to that story. I am making a procedural proposal for a semi-disengagement and a meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal is not accepted. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Now I'm going to argue again. The proposed amendments to the coalition are not defined in any way by the financial or numerical implications of such a decision. We do not know how much it will cost or how many people will come to this country after this amendment. There's nothing defined. If the coalition is so firm that it does not allow the Government to get an opinion on the consequences of this amendment and from the Legislative and Legal Service on legal compliance with the EU acquis and conventions in the light of all decisions so far, including other European countries, then there is certainly a speculative decision at the back. Indeed, Mr President, I propose that you do this in order to suspend the meeting until the opinions of the Government and the Legal Service have been obtained. We can do this, even decide for ourselves in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 73 and continue at one more favourable hour, on the day and in these opinions we continue the meeting. Otherwise, the opposition will have no choice but to prevent the meeting from ending today with procedural proposals for suspension or even obstruction. You won't profit anything. You won't profit anything, only the consequences will be very long. Four 45 minutes at this point is about three hours. Then there will be obstructions, and you will gather the army, and I doubt that it is worth it to the National Assembly to use opposition parties to use all possible parliamentary instruments to reach at least the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I hope that the coalition is reasonable to ensure this at this point. You have a government, you have a minister here who will process this opinion through the government, and the law enforcement service is still in the system, and there will probably be no problem. Mr President, I propose that, on the basis of Article 73, paragraph 1, you decide to suspend the meeting, you say we will continue; otherwise, I propose that we suspend the meeting and postpone the decision to one of the following meetings, which is the first paragraph of Article 74. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u215	Therefore, the procedural proposal is that the debate and the decision-making process proposal be postponed to one of the following meetings and the decision-making. [[…]] This is a procedural proposal made by Mr Jože Tanko. I'm putting him to the vote. First, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, if any. It's not. Then we vote. There are 57 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 37. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 37.]] The proposal is not accepted. Who wants to discuss this issue? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I'm sorry, but I'm the one who predicted it. Minister of the Interior Vesna Györkös Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members! I think we agree that there has been a lot of talk in the past about the amendment of the International Protection Act, but at all, on the subject of migration as such, so this migratory pressure facing Slovenia, and I think that in the part that has been said, there is actually nothing more to add. I have already announced at one of the previous meetings that I expect today's meeting, or the previous one, which specifically referred to the International Protection Act, to be a big deal. But the reason that this meeting is a tumultuous one does not stem from the fact that there would be something wrong here in this house or in this country, but from the fact that the whole of Europe is under a lot of pressure right now. Decisions taken at European Union level have also been made under great pressure in the past year, in 2015. Some have also been taken on very short notice, and the European Union, in fact, or ministers, are aware that we are at a turning point, so that at this point certain concrete decisions must be taken to prevent the crisis that we were facing in 2015. So the excruciatingness of today's debate, as I said last time, stems from the fact; not only is Schengen under trial, so that the Schengen rules are not adapted to this situation, we are facing a very specific situation of new phenomena. At the same time, the rules on asylum are under great pressure at this time. We know that the Geneva Convention is over 60 years old, and the conclusions of the European Council are very clear, very clear; the European Council has made it clear, too, that the President of the European Council, Tusk, clearly indicates which direction asylum aqui European Union must begin to develop. As it is said, migration is not a new phenomenon, but it is new in this situation, and the new phenomenon is this crowd or organised transport that we have received in the past periods. It is true that Slovenia has started to halt this migratory flow, and the first has actually restricted these organised transports to our country, so this is part of a comprehensive solution at the level of the European Union, because if you properly collect all the signals, in fact the European Union is also putting in place a firm position that the system should be put in place, in order to make the situation manageable. These signals came from Member States and Members today, all of you mentioned, and Mr Grims also mentioned certain directions, including as regards asylum shopping, this is based on the European Council decision, where it was clearly stated that Member States at the external borders must refuse entry to those who do not meet the conditions for entry and who did not ask for international protection, even though they had the option. In short, this is the red thread that will be very present in the coming periods and around which all the solutions will actually be reversed, including those proposed by the European Commission as guardian of the acquis, which is also under great pressure at this moment, because all eyes are in fact directed at the European Commission, which must propose such solutions that will lead to a sustainable system of managing migration in Europe. Many countries, not just Slovenia, are also taking legislative measures, that is, not only what is happening in real time on the ground – that is to say, with measures on the ground – trying in its own way – given that there are no common European solutions yet; direction is indicated, but these solutions are not yet – to face these challenges that these current migrations pose. That is why the Ministry of the Interior at past meetings has in fact given a very conscious reminder, not only of the situation we are facing in Slovenia, we have warned and outlined the comprehensive context of migration, but we have, too, pointed out in previous meetings, these recent ones, just the specific situation in which Slovenia is located in the region. At the same time, we have also taken parallels, so that indeed European rules are useless in this situation and legislative solutions must also be sought in the direction we have explained at all previous meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u217	I open the debate or the application first. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u218	Today we are actually deciding on a very important matter. The fact is, we're all pretty tired all week long. I propose that we, however, suspend this meeting and continue it at the next possible date. In the meantime, we can still study everything that is currently being adopted in Europe. In this case, I will say, if anyone knows the situation most, it is certainly the Minister, who is also looking for accommodation places, which, together with the Secretary of State, are looking for ways to give these people a chance. We don't have to deal with this. And it is no wonder that people everywhere in the country protest and fear what is yet to come, but here you or you are very easily trying to confirm or not accept an amendment that would insure us to some extent. Therefore, in New Slovenia we propose to stop, for a few days we have time to get more information to see if this decision is right or wrong. We get some time, and then everyone can make their own choices, just like he thinks he's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u219	Anybody else want to discuss this? First, Mr. Jože Tanko raised his hand. For the debate, you're procedural. Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. However, I propose that at least the Minister is allowed to conclude her debate. Now that's funny. Look at the absurd situation – or allow it to be discussed again. What an absurd situation today! As an opposition member, I am convincing the coalition today that the proposal that was made in the office of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the presence of the Minister, whom your minister, yours, has been ardently defending in this Parliament, and you have left it well behind, not to say dry from behind, the only legal correction and compliance with international law. And you're resisting it. All I have asked is for the Minister to define, at least until the original text of the law, which you deleted in the previous vote out, because I am sure, but given that she is a lawyer, and given that we know who was behind this text that it was the President of the Government, that is the text that solves the problem. Believe that it is up to us whether this is in or out of the way that we continue to act and vote. We're not just talking about a legal case. Here, look, it's a lot of money. Each migrant costs 10,000 euros a year to Slovenia. It is a security issue, and it is also a political issue. Last time we could see Kučan, Jankovic, Strukelj and others standing behind some covered guys with sticks in their hands. Does Slovenia have to go this far? It's just that we should respect the law. Your own law and international law! And that text you last deleted from the law is in accordance with international law. I even claim that it is only in conformity with international law and that it would be worth including in the law. However, at least I would suggest, if nothing else, that you allow the Minister again, so that he can at least define himself to this amendment, which is the whole text that was produced by the Government, which was advocated by the Minister, and which is also supported by an explanation, by its exact discussion of the previous meeting. Additional arguments concerning asylum shopping, with which you have heard, are also accepted by the Minister and have been presented today. Believe that this is not the same as what you are proposing now, because it is only a reference to international acts that are still in force. This text would be significantly better, clear, unequivocal and would solve one very large security, financial, economic, humanitarian problem of the Republic of Slovenia, which may arise needlessly if asylum shopping is allowed in any form, when asylum shopping but under international law is inadmissible, not to say crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u221	Quiet! Mr. Jernej Gardener, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u222	Now we're not talking about potato bags, talking like a bar. My procedural proposal is aimed at suspending the meeting, even if for half an hour, the leaders or deputies of the leaders of the parliamentary groups are meeting, because the consequences of this amendment, if not adopted, as the Minister has already said at the parliamentary committee meeting, can be very large in the long term. We are saying that in the territory of this country, thousands of people will be able to apply for asylum. We don't talk about xy stuff. I also suggest that you give the Minister more time to discuss, not your five minutes, to respond both to the security aspect in the event that this amendment is not adopted, and also to our capabilities. This is urgent, this goes hand in hand, this is parallel to the opposition or those who oppose it, we cannot participate in such a fiasco in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u223	Procedurally, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much, President, once again for the opportunity to make a procedural proposal. Of course, before I get to him, Mr Grimes, let me tell you this, because you obviously weren't there before. This is not about any decisions that would arise in the office of the President of the Government. And please, if you can stop this flooding. Of course, there have also been some discussions, certainly, because why we have the President of the Government, and of course he speaks to his ministers. Please, if I may [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u225	let it finish [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u226	stop doing this, on procedural issues by instigating that any such decisions will arise in the office of the President of the Government, but, of course, in the parliamentary procedure, we are considering the draft law, the amendments that we are arguing about and, of course, we are also taking decisions. [[…]] Therefore, my procedural proposal, although I of course believe that there is no reason for us to stop this meeting because we have been preparing for this meeting. There's nothing new in front of us, as you can see for yourself, and we've been preparing at this time. We have also said ourselves that there is an argumented debate in order to make the right decisions and that is why we have made every possible additional effort. I don't understand why we should interrupt this meeting, so that those of you who haven't been able to look at what is on the table and what we're dealing with and that you're talking about other issues that have nothing to do with the International Protection Act itself. Therefore, as it is said, I propose that, in the future, I myself will not abuse procedurally, procedurally, the question of how I will answer the instigation and the untruths that appear, or the incomprehensible proposals about the content under the cover of the abuse of the procedural question, so please, I will not be in danger of taking advantage of the procedural issues, so that you, of course, stop the debate between the procedural questions. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u227	On the basis of Article 73, paragraph 1, I interrupt this meeting of the National Assembly for 35 minutes. So we start again at 9:00 and 40 minutes, and in five minutes, I have all the leaders of the parliamentary groups in my office.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u228	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss at this point or if Mr Tanko has called, so I am opening the list. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I regret, however, that there is not enough wisdom in coalition parties to listen to the demands of all opposition parties, irrespective of the gender at which we find ourselves, to provide the appropriate grounds and explanations for discussing and deciding on these amendments that have been tabled. Given that changes are taking place in this international neighbouring environment, with regard to the position on migration issues, practically overnight, every day a country adopts certain regulations, measures, including laws that substantially exacerbate matters, only our country, namely, acts by opening the door. All other countries, take as an example Austria, Hungary, Italy, perhaps a little less, but Germany, are taking measures where the space for illegal migrants would be reinvigorated; and this is essential. While part of this chapter has been made with us on the Committee on Internal Policy, in the next step this coalition has opened the matter up quite differently. If the adoption of certain acts for Austria does not present a problem to international conventions and other matters, why would this be a problem for Slovenia? In what way is Slovenia better than Austria in this area? We are 4 times smaller, we have 2 or 2.5 times lower GDP per capita, and we offer significantly higher standards for all those seeking asylum in Slovenia. Why are you forcing such a decision? And in the state budget you have barely provided a few euros for the reconstruction of some bridges, the Prime Minister of the Government has explicitly praised this, but it is 5, 7, 10 million euros. You are now making decisions that could amount to €100 or €500 million a burden on the state budget, and the coalition is unable or able to hear from the government what it actually means to adopt such an amendment or to reject it. You're not even as wise in the coalition as you are, you don't have the wisdom to get the warnings we've given in the opposition parties from the government. Not even an estimate, not just to get any other information. I think, Mr President, that there is no real basis for the adoption of these amendments to address this point, including these amendments, because we do not have the necessary documents to support the adoption of one or the other amendment. Only one amendment is credible, which is what we have tabled and which is a practical copy of what the Minister proposed at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior. Nothing else matters because the government is behind it. But everything else has been taken into consideration. I do not understand the SMC, which has so much to do with the legal basis, the conventions and so on, that they can afford to decide on one amendment for which no financial or other consequences have been attached. Nothing. And when we say that we want to do so, they block by blocking procedural proposals that the Government should not even mediate it. I wonder if there is any wisdom in this coalition in Parliament, this moment in Parliament at all, whether you are throwing it blindly over like a bulldozer, just that something will be accepted and no one knows what. When the consequences come, you'll say the National Assembly has accepted it. It's not. You accepted it, with your name and surname! It would be good for us to take on the consequences. And right away, Mr President, I'm not going to make any special calls. If our amendment is adopted, we will remain in session, but if our amendment is not adopted, I predict the obstruction of the session. Thank you to the one who said thank God.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u230	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Decisions and decisions shall be taken in the National Assembly; different decisions shall be taken. A change in the rate of a tax may be made, but such a decision can be taken that will harm Slovenia forever and ever. One such strategic decision was, for example, the decision on Slovenia's independence and independence. One of the decisions that resembles this decision is now on the table. In particular because it has such a decision for Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia alone, with demographic forecasts as they are, it can have a devastating effect for the country itself and for the Slovenes and for the Slovenes. Notwithstanding the fact that this decision, if this amendment is not adopted, can in fact mean that the financial consequences will of course be inconceivable, that security issues will be uncontrollable and that there will be a huge number of people in Slovenia who have been rejected by other countries and who will simply remain in this country, Slovenia, with two million people. Accept these persons – if you do not support this amendment –; accept and tell the people where you come from that you are going to live in those places. Today and here! Because the decision, which is in some way contrary to the Government's position, because the Minister of the Interior represents the Government and is represented here by the Government today, has a different opinion. Such decisions by the coalition itself, I don't know where they come from. Actually, I don't know if we still have a government or not. Perhaps even the minister and the government are aware of the decisive moments today, while the coalition does not. Here colleague Kozlovich has a completely different opinion and, as it seems, leads, I will say the whole thing, probably with the support of some others, because she advocates a different position which has no legal basis. Today it is a very crucial moment for Slovenia and for this amendment and is irreparable. If this amendment is not adopted, we can also hope in Slovenia, given the international situation today and here, for a completely different effect. Tusk has already been mentioned, it has already been mentioned that the whole European policy has been changed, talked about by the Minister, mentioned the conversion by the European Court of Justice or the Council of Europe, the legal service, and in the coming weeks will only continue to be legalised in the Member States. Slovenia and this coalition are doing the opposite; exactly what the Minister does not support and, of course, here is the responsibility of you. I'm calling on this coalition to consider what it's doing. However, I call on the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 73, paragraph 1, to end this meeting, to ensure that this meeting can continue, as it is irresponsible that the historical negative effects of future generations are borne. Because today it will be because of ignorance, or because someone has agreed I do not know where, decisions will be taken today to the detriment of Slovenia. Once again, the National Assembly shall take its decisions and take its decisions. This decision today is one of the most crucial if the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is not adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u232	The word is from Dr. Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. A man feels wonderful after two, three hours of stupidity while continuing some substantive discussion. I'm a space sociologist, I'm not a lawyer, but I did learn a little. I admit that I did not deal with this subject as much as I did with my colleague. Number of fugitives. Yesterday in Slovenia all accommodation centres 218 refugees were expected, for the last 7 days more than 400 people had never entered Slovenia; on 1 March 4, on 29 February no persons, on 22 February no persons. The Austrian quota is 3 000 200 – statement – Mr Šefic, 2. 3. In the last 14 days, between 250 and 800 migrants, and some of the last days, have entered Slovenia on average. Slovenian police continue to exercise stricter Schengen control at the Slovenian-Croatian border. The Austrian security authorities occasionally refuse entry from migrants coming from Slovenia. The main reason is for migrants to change their declaration of destination or destination when entering Austria. He said something, then he came to Austria and thought, yeah, but now I can get somewhere, and it kind of happens. The existence of a country, as much as the speaker spoke before me, but I'm still so good at analyzing people, it's not likely that they believe in this again. If the existence of one country depends on one amendment, my seven-year-old daughter won't buy it either, I apologize. This ping-pong going on here, first of all, Mrs Minister, is something because these are together with the President of the Government, then we know these stories, and one gentleman warned of something. This is a matter, of course, which, in its original version, interferes with how the convention, in some respects, I hope to say, a little better lawyers, as they sit here, can also be constitutionally controversial. I don't want to go to any court practice. Madam, who has proposed that we stop this meeting, the noble Slovenian Conservative, who was a European Member, knows that there is probably some kind of convention being discussed there. Maybe we'll have to do something first, I'll say, deratification – if I put it that way. I am the only one who will not derapise it, and then I will leave this temple of democracy to the great joy of Mr Han, as you like to say, but rather – I will be a little rude – you are shielding him. In short, we have an important subject, of course, which is not just one article, which someone is so abusing. We have something going on around us – I speak now as a spatial sociologist. That someone in Lendava tells me that there was so many people protesting on the bus there; we have some reasonable mayors and saints who are trying to talk reasonably, and we have this national assembly. You know, not just me – now I've got a lot of information – people are afraid of this national assembly, not refugees. People are always more afraid of what we don't do here. That's the problem. We have spent three hours trying to get us to be more informed and to adopt some legislation that will also be able to live, that will also protect those people who will come, that will be in line with the legal order with which we are bound. But no, because, in fact, in the largest coalition party some political scientist is interested, we now have this charade ahead. Then, Madam Doctor, you and yours will take over, which will come from this. If this is a debate, if this is the National Assembly – I don't know. I don't know. I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed. I've been scared for six months. I'm afraid if one amendment isn't adopted, the world will end. We've been shaving and fooling around here all week. The sessions can't be conducted. I don't know, but maybe we should do what they used to do to students on the FDV, maybe we should do one simulation of Parliament two or three weekends to learn how to work Parliament and parliamentary work, and then start working Parliament seriously or maybe they'll realize that a large majority of us aren't doing it. Let's relax, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u234	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 51(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the same Article under point 2 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Procedural? Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much, President. On the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a 30-minute recess for consultation in my Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u236	First, let's do the explanation for the vote. Is there any explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u237	Your Honor! Legal concepts, such as the question of asylum shopping and then safe third countries, are established international legal concepts. Respect for the law in the event of the migrant crisis depends on the literal future of the country. Every migrant who needlessly stays in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is costing Slovenian taxpayers at least EUR 10 000 per year. This is a statement from the Minister of Finance. The accumulated migrants, those who are rejected elsewhere, in practice constitute an extremely high cost, a threat to prosperity and a permanent security risk for the Republic of Slovenia. With all of this, the coalition is completely needlessly playing with irresponsibly. The government has drafted an appropriate amendment adopted at the committee meeting to prevent asylum shopping at this very point. I don't know who, in the largest coalition party, fell for the extreme left-wings and decided on collective harakirs, by removing what was best in the marriage from it. In the SDS, we propose nothing more than to put this back into the text prepared by your own government, your own minister, ladies and gentlemen, which has also been bitterly advocated in this House. Now you can decide for yourself whether you will be more loyal to an ideology or more supportive of your own government, which is aware of the security and other risks that the current state of Slovenia poses. For when it comes to ideology, I must warn you that this session today reminds you of that Magna Purga comic book, when one is standing in the rain in front of the cave, and everyone invites him to come in, that he is in the rain, that he will be sick. And he says no, it doesn't rain. Then everyone asks him, he's still insisting. And until they give up and turn around and say, that's ideology. This is what this debate looks like, pointing out that all Europe is sharpening its asylum policy against migrants, that the original text advocated by your own minister is the only legal corket and consistent with international law because it prevents asylum shopping, and you are persistently resisting and insisting that some text goes in or insist on a text that does not address this issue properly. By doing so, you leave completely unnecessary rain or expose the whole country of Slovenia to a high security and material risk. If it were just for you, frankly, no one would regret it, but because it is a state of Slovenia, this amendment must be supported. It is also up to us to follow through. We will certainly support him in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u238	Is there any other explanation? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u239	We will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment in the New Slovenia Group because we believe it is extremely important and also expresses the opinion of the competent minister. We proposed earlier that the meeting should be suspended and resumed on Monday. Since the coalition has not decided to do so, New Slovenia, if this amendment is not adopted, will leave this meeting because we cannot participate further.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u240	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. We're all playing basketball, but we're not all Peter Wilphan who's away right now. I've had so much to learn from lawyers, what is the subject that we are dealing with is changing in Austria, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, this is not all of Europe, and it is not going as far as it is proposed. It's so-called all of it. Of course, we will vote against what Matthew has already said. Of course, through this obstruction, it differentiates, if you want, an ideological position within the opposition, which was somehow expected, but which basically saddens me that we do not have in the Slovenian Parliament some new good friends from the EPP, Scandinavian conservatives, because it seems to me that it would be easier to carry out this meeting somehow – but I am not thinking of you now, Mrs Ludmila, that we will not be misunderstood. But obviously somehow there's no interest in getting any additional information to take this matter seriously. Now I'm getting dizzy, damn it, what if Slovenia were in England's position and England came out of the EU, and Scotland is a trident. Some who know little know what I'm talking about, and others don't even have God's help if they believe in him. Frankly, I don't know if the Pope said what Mr Grimes was saying today, but I Googled it, and I didn't find it. He may have said, and that quote is basically not Churchill's, but it's a little bit reversed, but it's from an American gentleman who represents similar positions to the SDS, and I know that because I've got time left, because I'm a perfox and I like to quote correctly, and Bran is a master of American studies. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u242	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you. We will not support this amendment in the SMC Group of Members, but we have already said the reason during the debate. By the way, the Law-Legal Service is 11. 2. In the Committee on Home Affairs, it has also defined this Article, not as the position taken by Lilliana Kozlovich, but as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which states: The question of compliance with the European legal framework is raised, for the first time, by a procedural directive which provides in the second paragraph of Article 33 when an application may be rejected as inadmissible and does not provide for this case, in particular in terms of compliance with the Dublin Regulation, which lays down the criteria for determining the Member State responsible for examining the application. There are a number of different standards in this regard. One of the criteria is the country of entry, but this is only one of them, by clearly stipulating in Article 7 that it must be applied in accordance with the order in which it is indicated in this Regulation. The Regulation shall be primary, directly effective, and shall not apply any provisions of domestic law to the extent that it contravenes any provision of the Regulation. Moreover, the additional reason why we do not feel necessary is that we have a provision in the fourth indent of this Article that the competent authority may be rejected by a decision. Therefore, even if the criteria laid down in Regulation No 604/2013-EU establish that another Member State of the European Union and the acceding Member State to Regulation No 604/2014-EU are responsible for the examination of the application. We won't support this amendment either. But we will support the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u244	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. Dear President, I have a silver Vega confession or a prize, and I no longer understand this logic. The head of the parliamentary group asked 30 minutes to consult and reach a decision and then the member reads how they would vote. I take this as a personal mockery, so I ask for a procedural proposal to apologize to both ladies. Thank you. And there is something else I would like to say, but I really don't understand certain things in article 125, and we're probably going to take some time for the United Left to clear this up a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u246	Procedural, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u247	Your Honor! I propose that before the holiday is decided, however, it be distributed to all, in particular to Members and Members of the SMC, the entire text of the Dublin Convention, because if someone has already referred to it, ladies and gentlemen, at least it should be known and read in full, because what it says, if I quote, "the asylum return to the country in which he entered the European Union as far as asylum shopping is concerned". That's what they say. In this case, it would be Greece. However, if I quote what you may be more interested in, "that the decision on the Dublin Agreement adopted by any Member State, whether to reject the asylum at the border or to reject it in the process or to exclude it later on for example, committed crime or anything like that, is true," I quote, "for the entire European Union". That is to say, if someone is rejected by the state of Austria, this is a decision that automatically applies to the whole of the European Union under the Dublin Agreement. Therefore, please do not tell me, but just have at least as much knowledge, the Dublin Agreement as an argument that you will not accept what was the text proposed by the Minister, because it is exactly what fills the gap that stems from non-compliance with the Dublin Agreement, which is, in fact, legally valid, but by the countries of the European Union, unfortunately with the current Slovenian government, they do not respect at this time. But apparently, at least the Government is aware of this legal deficit and wants to fill this gap, or it wanted to fill it with a text that was the only consistent and only summary of the objectives that the Dublin Agreement was implementing. Once again, please do not refer to the Dublin Agreement as an argument that you do not accept that text, because it is the only one in line with it and only fulfils the objectives of the Dublin Agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u248	There's no more explanation, so I'm adjourning the session. [[…]] Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u249	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote in favour of this amendment. Slovenia is becoming an increasingly targeted country for many migrants wishing to gain better working conditions in the European Union or in the territory of the European Union or for any other reason coming to our territory. We are also faced with the return of the migrant wave and this amendment protects us from the return of the migrant wave. On the one hand, you have on the scale those who want to have thousands of asylum seekers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia – please reject this amendment – on the other hand, New Slovenia will support this amendment, because we do not want it, especially because we do not have the answer to the question of our economic capacity, how many migrants we are able to accept, and also what is the security question that we can accept thousands and thousands of people who will apply for asylum. and not those coming from Croatia, including those coming from Austria, from a safe country, to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. From a safe country, ladies and gentlemen, from Austria! These people will be able to apply for asylum status in Slovenia. You'll give them this, New Slovenia doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u250	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the content of Article 51 of the Law on International Protection, I will support this amendment. It's an amendment, Minister Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar, signed by colleague Jože Tanko, I regret it, Madam Minister, because of you, it is difficult for me to have your political supporters leave you to turn their backs on you. We are rational supporters with you, and if anything, ladies and gentlemen, we need a race right now. This barn that happens here tonight, this night as the last point, as the last act of this Friday, there will be no good fruit. We're told Friday is a bad start and it would be good to cool down to go home, come back Monday and make a rational decision. Madam Minister, according to Tusk's statement, Nova Slovenija will be the one to support you if you decide not to wait for the Schengen to come back to life at the end of the year, but, say, before the tourist season. We're with you. This is what you do and will be catapulted politically in the European Union. Look, if you don't, I told you earlier about the data that was calculated by the Chamber of Commerce. Slovenia will lose 55 million if only 1 out of every 10 Italians or 1 out of every 10 Austrians does not come to us if what is happening now happens to us. We will be asking questions and looking for those responsible for this 55 million. Come on, please, colleagues and colleagues, it's time for all of us to take care of each other and support this amendment, to support this amendment, and that we all go to the end of this law together. Now it is not about who will be who, it is about Slovenia having to win.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u252	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. I'm even more confused, I have to admit. During this break, when most of you left the room, my colleague Jerne and I talked to the Secretary of State, and what a young colleague then said is totally contrary to what the Secretary of State explained to us. Refugees are not some sacks of potatoes that will just be returned from those countries that you have already said, on the other hand, you are disgusted, this wave that went by almost undetected, except those who live nearby, and when they interviewed someone, they said they did not want to remain in Slovenia. You know, I don't know, I'm in basic science-mathematic education, otherwise I've been spraying high school more, but I have some of these basic logics. Here's another proof that we should probably postpone this meeting and consider it because it's someone I don't know if the secretary of state is populism is lying or — I don't know, I'm not smart enough, I'd like it to stop. [[…]] I trust my people, I trust the lawyers I've consulted, so I will vote against it. But through such pumping, I can't say otherwise whether Parliament is a parlare space, some serious debate based on the best possible triangulation of facts, data, non-Croat readings of laws or I don't know, just some pure, I'll say, infotainment or a place to awaken a culture of fear. Maybe someone who goes to breakfasts at some different and other diplomatic missions, I don't respond to these invitations, maybe that's where this copy-paste comes from. Maybe there's some copy paste from some book that was reissued after 70 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u254	Procedural again? Explanation of the voice in his own name doctor – no, Master Branko Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you. This debate today, in particular, which is surprising that the SMC will insist on voting against the text of its own minister, is quite a bit after the fight between the mind and the buttocks, but it did not win the brains, but the butlers won. The situation is preposterous that today in the opposition, especially I, as her hard critic, defend your minister from all of you, this is indeed a theatre of absurdity. Let's think about it, or maybe at this time, if there's a half-past, let's just take that strip of Magna Purga into your hands and look at the one standing in the rain and say it's not raining. That's what the Minister and I are telling you. Illegal migrants are starting to rain, and it is necessary to retreat nicely into a warm, safe cave and stop behaving and let go of this ideology. Because this price will not only be paid by your client, it will not only be paid by the coalition. What is sad about this story is that it will end up being paid materially and securityfully by the whole of Slovenia. And that's not what Slovenia deserves. The SDS and ourselves will certainly support this amendment in order to protect Slovenia. That's his purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u256	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. They've recently issued an integrated edition of The Butals. I got it. I can lend it to you. It would be good if we all read it. My procedural proposal is to make a mag. Grims apologizes to the butlers because, after intellectual capacity and problem solving, we are far above them, especially in the last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u258	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, in particular because this amendment is a state-created amendment and is for the benefit of all Slovenians and Slovenes, both in the security and financial fields, and of course in all other areas. Allow me to say that I am very concerned about the country in this debate and in this situation. According to this coalition, the SMC party is falling apart. Here the leader of the parliamentary group wants an agreement on how to decide on this amendment. On the other side of the mag. Kozlovich simply says how to vote. On the third side of this coalition, from this coalition quota, I will say that the SDS amendment or SDS supports its position on this issue, on the other hand, a government position. Because of this, President, I think you can pull a coup now, on Friday night. Just stop this session; not for 30 minutes, until Monday! I think this will be in accordance with the rules of procedure and will be an action that will also give you a greater reputation throughout Slovenia. You can do this. Now and now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u260	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will also support it because, when we discussed this at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister explained for almost 20 minutes why this so-called amendment to Article 51 is necessary, why it is useful and, of course, that it is in accordance with all directives and regulations. I will also support it because I do not accept the arguments that the Law-Legal Service has doubts or objections to it or should not be in accordance with all the documents of Slovenia. The fact is that this coalition has so many times overturned the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that the argument that the amendment is not accepted is that it is a foundation that I simply cannot accept. The fact is that there has been a change in some of the positions that concern me even more and further strengthen me in supporting this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the same time, I wonder what is happening in this coalition that the opposition must defend the ministers of this coalition. And that seems to me to be an additional problem, but it's almost dangerous for the country. However, it is the Minister of the Interior who would have in these difficult situations – the President of the National Assembly spoke for the last time about the crisis when there was another topic and that he does not have the confidence of his own coalition, then let us really ask ourselves whether we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u262	Interrupting [[…]] An explanation, another one? Explanation in its own name mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you. Look, today we are ahead of a very important decision and a very visual indicator of the functioning of this government coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always support the good proposals of ministers. In this case, too, we supported him as far as this article is concerned. The arguments that have been presented and the arguments that we have also made are convincing enough for the ruling coalitions to support their minister in some normal system. That is how we witnessed the story today when the leader of the parliamentary group defeated the President of Parliament, then Jani Möderndorfer hit on the leader of the parliamentary group, and together you all decided to run over your own minister. This is not an issue where a coalition majority in Parliament would show that they can vote against their minister. Those themes are different. There'll be an opportunity for that. On this crucial issue, however, the task is to support the opinion of the Minister, the opinion of the professional service and in some way to support the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's why I'm going to vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u264	Any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u265	Yeah, it's got to be tough in the coalition, considering what's going on. The amendment, however, is to be supported, but the essence of the problem is that it is the amendment of the Minister, which you have confirmed, ladies and gentlemen, on the committee, including with our assistance, we have voted in favour. One day later, you changed your mind to the threat of one of the ministers, Mr Klemenčič, and now in a situation where you have overrun not only your own amendment, and today we propose it. But we suggest it — why? Because it is necessary in the situations we are in when the Austrians set a quota, when the Hungarians are on having a referendum, when the Slovaks say who they will take, who they will not take, when the Poles say they will not take any, and you accept them from the north, those that are rejected by Germany and Austria, and those from the south that come from Croatia. Until when, gentlemen? Until when is the torture of the Slovenian people? It is simply that we do not accept with this amendment people who have already been to the European Union who have had the opportunity to apply for asylum there. That's all this is about. And reasonable policy would support that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u266	Is there any other explanation? Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Of course, I will support this amendment, which is certainly one of the most important amendments for the Republic of Slovenia. I hope we're all aware today that we're in the National Assembly in some theater, not in a hall, but on a stage. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we point out some things in the opposition, perhaps citizens can smile at a matter. A well-respected coalition, respected by Simon, Mr Jurša, Mr Han, would suggest that you take a break together to go to the office and agree on how to proceed. Because you are doing what you are doing now, doing the damage to Slovenia. Mr Matjaž, Mr Jurša, Mrs Simona, imagine what you are doing. It's probably been a long week for you, Friday. Mr Matjaž, I will vote in favour of this amendment, which is important for Slovenia. I also suggest that you and Mrs Simona get together during the break and discuss how to proceed in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u268	Is there any other explanation? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, the government in the country is run by the largest government coalition group. Or the biggest government party. And if there is a disagreement within this largest government party, and if there is a disagreement with the government's coalition ministers, then it is indeed necessary to ask for the future of such a government and, of course, for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia. Does it mean that the other coalition government parties of Desus and SD are not even discussing this topic? Because you're not in sync, and you don't know what your compass is. That's very worrying. Yes, express your position to the other parliamentary groups. Express it, come on! To see what the coalition coherence of this government is and what your shared responsibility is. Not the head in the sand. At the time of government, decisions must be made and decisions must be made boldly, constructively and in the interests of the Slovenian people. You have to be aware of that. And do it!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u270	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment we have proposed will be supported. I think it makes sense; with all these warnings that have been given. But I'll back him up for one more reason. If it is true that he is the co-author or creator of this solution, which is now adopted and what is now being proposed, Mr Klemenčič, then I must vote against it for a precautionary reason. Because Mr Klemenčič has been proven to be one of the far-recognizable violators of laws and constitution in this Chamber and now, if this is his implementation, also of international acts, I do not know a minister who in so many cases would have the wrong opinion so many times; let this be in the function of the KPK, let this be in the role of the Minister now, let this be in no way a function. [[…]] In short, this is why I will certainly not support this proposal – that I do not support this solution, which you have adopted, but I will support the amendment that actually eliminates this danger. This is the only amendment that eliminates this danger. It certainly makes sense for me to support the solution initially supported, adopted and finally advocated and proposed by the Government. This is the only thing that is evident from this procedure. From this dichotomy, these divisions between the government and the government coalition, between individual ministers in the government, the state cannot emerge as a credible, credible partner and cannot achieve this result. It is therefore safe to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u272	So I'm adjourning the session. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u273	Thank you. This amendment is, of course, exactly the same as the original one proposed by the coalition. Of course, we cannot agree with him. In the first place, it introduces this complementary proposal of the law in order to be able to refuse an application to someone who has come from the territory of another Member State of the European Union. See, this is completely contrary to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which has clearly ruled several times that countries such as Greece and Italy cannot be considered a secure country and it is illegal to return them to a situation where their survival would potentially be threatened. Thus, the amendment proposed by the SDS Group will not be supported by me in particular because it takes a step back; in short, it goes back to what we luckily managed to do on Tuesday. It is true, however, that it is not fundamentally different from what the coalition has proposed or, above all, the Party of the Modern Centre. Since this law has already been passed with similar violations, I will vote against this amendment. But I remind you how close logic is to both SDS and SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u274	An explanation of the voice in a hairy name? Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to Article 51, I read the explanation relating to the amendment of the coalition. Therefore, the text of Article 51, the application for international protection may be rejected by the competent authority by a decision, means that the competent authority will have limited discretion. The latter will be in the interest of the applicant, as it will allow for a concrete request to be considered in substance at all times. This is also the case, it is said, that an application for international protection may be inadmissible and rejected by the competent authority if it is clear, in the light of the circumstances of its entry, that the applicant has entered the Republic of Slovenia from a country which is a Member State of the European Union. This means that a person in such a situation will not be treated discreetly does not mean that he will be rejected automatically. Therefore, it can be established that it has the right to – firstly, its right to be dealt with and secondly, it has the possibility that its right will then be found to be legitimate and also respected. This is based on an explanation which [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u276	Please, time. So I'm adjourning the session, which we're going to continue at 11:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u277	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. I assume you're trying to tell me. Please. The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u278	Thank you very much, President. We in the parliamentary group have held the last intensive round of talks before the entire vote, not only by voting around this article, but also by all others, and also with regard to the final support of the law. I can already say at this point that we will, of course, support the law, that it is one of the very important laws of the state at this moment and even in the future. I can also say that it is essential that we confirm or adopt a law based on respect for human rights and international legal order. At the same time, because there were some concerns or doubts about whether I was lying or standing here, I would now seem to show you that I am still kind of strong on both legs firmly ahead of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u279	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, chairman. I can say that we have also resolved the dilemma of Article 125 in the United Left. However, I would like to draw attention to one fact before the vote, and I would like to discuss it in the future in the National Assembly without manipulation. Politicians, of course, like to exaggerate a little, some are better rhetorical, some are worse. In fact, I'd like to apologize. I hope it won't be a blast to my nephew, the Pope, because we abused him here. We can talk about an Arab invasion, that's a fact. That's what Pope Francis said, but he's already here. Then there's the sequel, even New TV is sticking to some standards of journalism, but the sequel goes on. [[…]] The pope wondered how many European invasions he knew through his history. I will not translate directly because it has to be translated into context, but she always knew to find only herself and move in a direction and to become rich and fertilized by exchanges between cultures. That's what Pope Francis said! I apologize to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u281	We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 51(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the same Article under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 45. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Members of Parliament [[…]] Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that. As I said before, we are predicting obstruction of the National Assembly meeting. Have a nice night and a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u283	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, also procedurally for the same?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u284	As previously announced, Nova Slovenija is leaving this meeting. Given that such an important amendment has not been adopted, we do not want to participate in the further adoption of this law. We're leaving the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u285	We also decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 51. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u286	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of all the reductions in standards and guarantees for applicants that have occurred through this law, the amendment proposed by the Coalition to Article 70 is a step further and, of course, the amendment of the United Left is linked. We were already on Tuesday and were already appalled at the fact that both suspension and the possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court were being lifted. However, the coalition amendment suspends the suspension in some way with some measure of reason and terminates it at only one point in the four listed in Article 51. The directive we are implementing or implementing by this law is also clear on this and it is also, in fact, not understandable at this point, why such stubbornness, as far as this institution is concerned, is concerned. Article 46 of this Directive makes it clear that Member States must allow applicants to remain in their territory until the expiry of the period within which they may exercise their right to an effective remedy, provided that such a right has been exercised within that period, and until the conclusion of the proceedings with a remedy. We are now in a situation where, of course, this suspension applies only to one of those points, and at the first, second and fourth points it will still exist. In short, people who ask for asylum if such a decision is taken will simply be expelled from the country before they can complain. It is again another violation of what are international acts and also this directive itself. In short, I reiterate that we are implementing the directive in such a way that we are also violating it in several points. The same is true of the provision you are deleting, which is said to be a possible appeal to the Supreme Court, which is, of course, totally unacceptable, in this situation, the asylum applicant remains merely an exceptional legal remedy, which we call an audit, and is in fact a mechanism that is completely non-self-sufficient. It is not a matter of substantive decision-making but merely procedural, so it is even more problematic as far as it is concerned. Here it is in some ways incomprehensible why this insistence and this is also why this procedural complication has taken place at this meeting, because it is actually a law that is important, a law that decides on the lives of those who have decided to come to Europe, and in this way, I would say, restricting the debate and also such a way of sharpening is totally unacceptable, as far as this is concerned. In short, the amendment we are proposing is trying to provide at least this basic legal remedy, it is said, the possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court. We have also seen that most of the complaints that went to the Supreme Court were later settled; in many cases, there are violations in this procedure, and now this remedy for legal protection is terminated. The suspension is also contrary to international law, contrary to the directive and should remain in force at all four points in the law, but not only in one. So I don't have to express my deep disappointment as far as this is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u287	Anybody else want to discuss this? The word is from Dr. Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. This is the last time I'm calling today. He explained to my colleague, in fact, that I would like to first thank the person in the coalition who gave me this original quote, because I don't like to wear foreign feathers. At the same time, I would like to express my gratitude to all those who have helped us in these positions, which were mainly represented by fellow Matei, — a whole range of legal experts who are familiar with the subject. When we first got serious about this topic last year – when it was the end of August – I said, for example, we do not know enough about it, there are people in Slovenia, there are civil society organizations, individuals like Mr. Krivic and so on, let us turn to them. In the United Left, of course, we regularly turn to these people; I hope and thank them here. However, I hope that we will also have a serious debate in the National Assembly on the fourth branch of power, on the state of the media, this is about civil society, and that we will also take the funding of civil society organisations seriously, not in the way that they are now trying to drive it. That's it, thanks for tonight, and I hope that the session like it was 16 won't happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u289	Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 70(1). We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 70(2). We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 45. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 125 and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 125. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly would not have brought the bill into line. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u290	Thank you. Today all Members received a letter from Amnesty International Slovenia, Society of Humanitas, Society of OVCA, Peace Institute, Legal Information Centre of NGOs, Slovenian Philanthropy. This came this afternoon little for the amendments tabled by the coalition as well as the SDS. Otherwise, slightly towards the evening, so it has not yet received an EPA number and it will not be timely, because this law will be its consideration concluded today. But I think it's very important what they wrote in here. While we could require that this material be distributed before the decision is made, I will read what the main points these organisations point out, which, lastly, have been working with asylum seekers for many years, working with asylum seekers, refugees and so on. One point: "In NGOs, we call for the International Protection Act to maintain the suspension of the action and thus do not violate human rights law. Once again, we would like to point out that the adoption of the amendment, which is today 3. 3. proposed by the SDS, which provides that the application by the applicant who has entered Slovenia from the EU country is rejected, contrary to EU law. We also call on you to maintain the current text of the bill which excludes the application of the concept of safe third countries. We therefore urge you to release from the law the provisions and use of safe countries and thus avoid violating the prohibition of discrimination and the risk of violations of the non-reformed principle. Of course, three other pages of the text clearly indicate where human rights violations will take place in this bill, where asylum seekers' rights will be violated, refugees' rights will be violated, and today the coalition will consciously decide that such a law will be confirmed, and this law, we have heard repeatedly, stands before it or threatens to go to the Constitutional Court to go to the Court of Justice of the European Union and also the European Court of Human Rights. What we want to draw attention to in the United Left, which we have heard about what NGOs say they are doing with these people, is that we both have a possible story, as we have had it deleted, but this time in some version 2.0; in short, at a higher level, at European level, and I think that the consequences for Slovenia can also be severe, as far as this is concerned. That is why we will vote against this law in the United Left, because it is a law that goes against something, which is, after all, one of the general principles of your coalition, and this is respect for the rule of law, whether it is a Slovenian legal order or a European or an international one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-04-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u291	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I conclude this agenda item as well as the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. I inform the members and members of the Committee on European Union Affairs that today's follow-up to the 75th meeting of the Committee has been cancelled. You will be informed of the new meeting date.
