ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 34. Agenda item, this is the Proposal for a Recommendation to Eliminate Obsolescence of Criminal Procedures and Prevention of Possible Abuses The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 19 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Before I present only a request, perhaps one terminology explanation, you may also call it an apology or whatever, but this request now bears the title of the Recommendation to Eliminate Obsolescence of Criminal Procedures and Prevent Possible Abuses. The legal and legal service as well as anyone else probably understood this in a literal sense, i.e. it is not possible to eliminate obsolescence in the absolute sense of this word. Obsolete already knows Roman law and essentially refers to the statute of limitation of prosecution itself, as well as the statute of limitations on the execution of sentences. Of course, it is clear in this regard that there is also a principle that everything needs to be done to get things done within certain deadlines. Our purpose was not to abolish the Institute of Obsolescence, because that simply was not possible. To make it easier for you to understand the strangers in this area, someone may simply be absent from the country for so long that the criminal procedure or the possibility of prosecution is even obsolete. Such a case was the Lip discotheque, I think it was a prison sentence, if I recall correctly, and the person was not present in the country for so long that this matter was obsolete. So our intention is not to talk about abolition, but about reducing or reducing the number of criminal proceedings that are obsolete. You're going to ask me how many of these cases there are, how many things we're getting out of court. Judging from the debate on the Committee, there is some information, based on what the Ministry of Justice has told me in some of my parliamentary questions, and in fact there is no such data. In fact, I've asked the Justice Department to report to me for the last six or seven years how many delays there have been. I have received some data, but these data refer to 2015, and for all the other years I have been informed that there would be too much administrative and technical work in the courts to be able to communicate this information to me at all. I have accepted this matter, I do not want to cause some enormous administration in the courts with my question, I have been very satisfied with it, and I have no longer insisted on the detailed answers to the question. On the committee, as I said, it turned out that the representative of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the President of the Supreme Court, who attended this meeting and served with certain information. I believe that this data was obtained at the time of the submission of this request. Our statistics or judicial statistics, simply put, do not have an outdated section. She's not here. In all the reports of the courts that we have, which we receive, which we can read, there is no section on obsolescence, but the section is solved by stopping the proceedings. Solved by the termination of the procedure is something other than an obsolescence. Solved by the termination of the proceedings, it can be that the defendant died, and he's gone. That's why the procedure was stopped. It can be resolved by the suspension of the proceedings because the Prosecutor has withdrawn the request, for example, and then no longer the criminal procedure, continues. The simple question is likely also for the Ministry of Justice or the initiative, if you want to make this section “solved by the closure of the procedure” in future courts in their reports, somehow specify why this has occurred. Whether these are now absent defendants or the defendants have died or the prosecutor has withdrawn the case or the case has become obsolete during the criminal proceedings in the courts. I think it would be wise to put it in court statistics. However, there is something that some statements by judicial officials can conclude, and I will also indicate these figures as from that answer to the question sent to me, so that I will have these numbers, so that you have one general idea, even as far as this is concerned, set out below. The President of the Supreme Court himself said in 2012: “The analysis has shown that in most cases there have been objective reasons for the lengthening of prosecution, but of course there have been some cases where there has been an overstatement for subjective reasons.” So, we also have obsolescence for subjective reasons. It was then stated by the President of the Supreme Court that between 2006 and 2010 900 cases were obsolete in all courts. That's a relatively big one. Now we do not know whether the defendant died or the prosecutor dropped the charge or whether it was really obsolete in that classical sense of the word, according to the President of the Supreme Court, it was a classic statute of limitations. There is also a significant statement, for example, by Mr Panjan, President of the Higher Court in Ljubljana, who said in an interview: The law is 30 days to pass the judgment. But we do have cases where a judge never writes a verdict at this time. So, there are individual judges who never write down a verdict in 30 days. He also continued to talk about the consequences of judging the judicial service and the fact that in recent years a number of people have lost their jobs, I think 5 or 6 judges have lost their jobs. This is a positive information for me, because I have always advocated that we have some responsibility for judges, but unfortunately the Slovenian public does not know this. I think it would be very good for the courts to also mediate such things to the public, because it does not have to be said that Anton Novak, a judge, does not have to say, I don't know who he is, although in the police we know clearly that he is the criminalist and he who is the disciplinary process. I don't know why we shouldn't know the same thing in court. I have to warn you in the following cases. Say, look, Anton Šubic, it's just an old Elan case, this gentleman's been writing a verdict for nine months. But when things got old, he went — we know where — among the lawyers. These are cases that are not good for justice. You have the Satex case, a remarkable example from I think even in the 90s in Maribor, which is obsolete. You have a case, Patricia, where there's an official statute of limitations, unless the Supreme Court says otherwise. Although the case of Patricia is unusual for the defendant to complain that he is protesting that the matter is outdated, he claims that it is not outdated and then the court decides that he cannot complain of his own injury. That's bullshit. But all right, that's what decisions are. You have Elan, for example, you have the trial of Officer Zlatko Gomilšk, who lasted so long that the matter was out of date, and he threatened the Prime Minister. In another case, however, another threat, which otherwise poses a different crime, threatens President Pahori at the time is 11 years in prison. You know, these are things that stick out a little bit, like they call it. Now a few more numbers. The question before me was so answered that in the District Courts in 2015 there were 33 criminal cases that in the District Courts in 2015 36 criminal cases were obsolete and so on in individual courts. So, we have an outage, that's the fact that we'll also have an outage – for various reasons, but for us there is a dispute over those outages that are A – the result of the poor part of the judge, the too slow part of the judge, you will also remember Patrio's cases when the trial was every week. Why wouldn't it be four days a week? Mr Pogačnik, who is now the president of one of the courts here in Ljubljana, made a very clear comparison in one of his articles with the system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the time worked, and said that the trials were held from Monday to Thursday and the documentation for the next week was regulated on Friday. If you will remember our cases, these reverberating ones, whether it is the Balkan Warrior or anything else, it is also Patria, when the trial was once a week, and then here we heard from the parliamentary benches that the accused John Janša was not there. Yeah, well, he didn't have to be there if no evidence was made against him. This was important, but it was not important that the trial ran once a week instead of running four days a week. And I'd probably come up with some final decision pretty much sooner than things got old. For us, the problem, as I said, is the inactive judge or even possible abuse. If someone puts it in a drawer, it's a big problem for me. And I'm going to give you another case in public. The criminal act of regret, the court in Celje, I'm a defendant, two and a half years and no one has ever smelled me. I'm being sued by Mr. Hanzi, this is that famous Udbov agent who cashed a whole bunch of money, you know, I insulted him. Okay. It's been two years, two and a half years, nobody's invited me anywhere. However, two journalists were dealt with in the same court a long time ago, and they were to be regretted by Mr Janez Janša. That's where the trial is concluded, as you know from the media. Why is that? I've been waiting two and a half years for them to judge me, and he was next in three months. Isn't that some kind of abuse? Abuse in the sense that someone is first in line than the others. I can't explain it to myself any more than I said. While we have presented four conclusions on the committee, I will not read them because I am running out of time, all four conclusions have been rejected. But it's a very interesting thing. I spoke on the committee, Members of the SDS spoke on the committee, some of the guests spoke, but there was no coalition. But she could press the right button, that's the key to the joint. I have two minutes left, so I'm going to mention another matter that I'm somehow putting on the minister's heart in order to do something. That's next. There was also one very important issue at the Committee's meeting. This is a matter for the prosecution's decision. He's quite an attorney at the DA's office. By 2011, we had a system in this country whereby the prosecutor's decision to prosecute or throw things away was subject to the boss's control with a signature or something else. Since 2011, we have been the only country in Europe, at least in my opinion, that we have the status of prosecutor equal to that of a judge. So if the prosecutor says, "This is a crime, I'll prosecute it," he's going after it. But if the prosecutor says, "It's not a crime, I'll throw it away" and it's over him – you know who? God and the blue sky, no one else. This is a masterpiece that I call the victory of Minister Zalar, which was set on fire by this national council. The Committee has shown that changes are urgently needed here, so that the prosecutor’s decision is checked. This person can't be outside the D.A., but he could be this person, a person, a group of people, whatever you want, inside the prosecution's own organization. Is this the boss who will sign such a decision and take responsibility for deciding whether it will be a group of prosecutors, these are open questions. I think it's a matter that can be resolved as soon as possible with the correction of the prosecution's law. But if there's a coalition will, it would be imperative to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation is at the 27th session of the 26th session. Ten. 2016 treated the Committee on Justice as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to President Jan Škobernet to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its 27th meeting, the Justice Committee considered a proposal for a recommendation to eliminate the excessive criminal proceedings and to prevent possible abuses. As already mentioned above, on behalf of the applicant, Dr Vinko Gorenak made the introductory statement, which specifically stressed that the Institute of Obstacles in Law was needed and intended in particular to avoid inadvertently prolonged disputes and, in the same case, the most unfavourable and unwelcome conclusion of criminal proceedings, since in the event of a negative conclusion, it had an important impact on the poor image of justice in the public and, in so doing, it distorted the reputation for the functioning of the institutions of the rule of law. The proposer therefore proposed that the reasons for the expiry of criminal proceedings should be established and appropriate measures should be taken to remedy irregularities and, in particular, to prevent possible abuses. He also suggested that the limitation resulting from the conduct or omission of the official part of the judge should be taken into account in the assessment of the work and the progress made by the judge. Mr Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, presented the Government's written opinion, which, on the one hand, welcomed the debate and attached to certain conclusions on the negative effects of the suspension of criminal cases, while at the same time the Minister's view could be found that the proportion of cases that have been delayed in recent years has been halved and that the number of judicial delays has decreased significantly, which was mainly the result of measures in the criminal code, and in addition the process of strengthening confidence in the rule of law institutions would also strengthen the new procedural legislation that is in the final phase. Mr Branko Maslesa, President of the Supreme Court, felt that the issue of arrears must be addressed in an integrated manner and that the number of cases that were overdue is being reduced mainly due to deliberate measures both within the legislation and through the functioning of the courts, and that a project to renovate the business process will contribute significantly to the prevention of cases. In doing so, it ensured that the judges found to have caused the cases to have been duly sanctioned. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group's 2nd paragraph at the outset, and then I proposed to the Committee that, in view of the debate where we generally found that we agreed with the issue that the key questions were answered, we could not support certain decisions, but also in the light of the failure to try to break the relations between the branches of government, when the Committee on Justice votes that the decision was not appropriate for further consideration, which would also allow the final decision to be expressed by this national assembly, but the proposer suggested that we vote on each proposal for a recommendation individually. The proposals for recommendations have been rejected and we can only conclude that the treatment process on the home working body has been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Given that today is just a debate and not a decision and that this debate has already been held on the Committee, only a few additional clarifications have been made. I'll go even longer than the proposer or in his name, Dr. Gorenak. Obsolescence by law is not a right, it is a privilege and must be used to the minimum and the judicial system must be fully operational in such a way as to achieve it at least as often as possible. The fact is also that, in part, the applicant has already acknowledged in his opening statement that the problem of obsolescence is accelerating even exponentially. If we had a total of 198 cases in the first-degree courts in 2006-2009, we had only 65 cases in 2012-2015. When we look at the extremely high incidence of cases that are counted in tens of thousands a year, these are relatively small numbers. That's a fact. And these numbers are completely comparable to foreign systems. Of course, we must always be concerned, and we must ask ourselves which things are getting old. It's not just the number that matters, it's also the kind of stuff that gets old. As it is said, in general, in the judiciary, whether we wish or not, whether you wish or not some, it must be acknowledged that the trend of managing backlogs and controlling matters that are threatened by weariness has been reduced. That's the first thing. The other thing is how to ensure proper treatment and responsibility in cases where someone would, even though politics can assume that some criteria that are not in place have led to outdatedness. There are some things you need to know about. First of all, it's not just the courts that are responsible for the statute of limitations. Absolute obsolescence begins with the commission of a crime and relative obsolescence with some first procedural act. It is necessary to know that, as long as police and prosecution procedures continue, the court has less time to decide. I am several times, even before this meeting, because I think that I have already told the committee that sometimes received bail by judges who say, “Look, the police did a house investigation, then it took three years before she filed a criminal complaint, then it took two more years before the prosecution decided and we got this last year”, Dr. Gorenak Kima, because I believe that she agrees, “and we now have two years to make this whole story happen. It is said that the problem of obsolescence in difficult crimes is multilayered and certainly not just ours in court. And I don't want to apologize to the court, because in some ways my department belongs to the prosecution. That's the first problem. The second problem is Grade 2, Grade 3 and in Slovenia Grade 4, this is the Constitutional Court. We all know that we have a disproportionate amount of return to Grade 1. A little joke when we last spoke in the government about the circular economy as a new topic, which is our future, I said that we have unfortunately adopted it in the judiciary. We have a very often circular principle where judgments are being annulled and returned to the first stage. I'd like to add the first thing here. As early as January, and in December or late November, the government, and in January before this esteemed National Assembly, will be the arrival of the new CAP and the CAP, is said to be a criminal and civil procedure in which these matters will try to be resolved. The next thing is that, with the new court order that I will sign this month, we also introduce the public record, the Court's records, which will allow it to be closely monitored, how quickly and to what extent individual civil or criminal matters are being resolved. Since I am running out of time, I will conclude this and then I will continue to engage in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Given that I have two roles that they have entrusted to me, it seems that I will try to say in this position of the Group of Members what I did not say before. It is clear, however, if we are proposing to support matters if there is to be a vote. I used to talk about prosecutors and the question raised about their so-called independence. Let me re-substantiate this. Look, quite logically, I say clearly, I say normally in every legal system as normal as it is that the judge in his work is independent of being bound by the Constitution and the laws, as stated in Article 125 of the Constitution. It is abnormal to say, however, that the same rights, at least in accordance with our legislation since 2011, have been enjoyed by prosecutors. Prosecutors are according to one of the Constitutional Court's judgments, perhaps the Minister will correct me, but I understand that they are not even part of the judiciary, they are part of a broader judiciary, which is more part of the executive branch of power than in the judiciary. Also, the 2012 Constitutional Court decision, when so much dust was caused in this National Assembly before the appointment of the other Janša government, is why the Prosecutor's Office is under an internal ministry and why it is not under justice, is actually talking about this. The Constitutional Court's decision was very clear where the prosecution's organisation belongs is irrelevant, roughly as constitutional judges have said, is irrelevant at all. It is important that the work of the prosecution organisation is guaranteed professional independence. It is said that, after all, the prosecution could also be tried under the cultural ministry, since the end of the day it is, however, so is the Constitutional Court's decision. But in 2011, we brought the matter to a point that is not acceptable at any cost anymore because we have levelled the status of the prosecutor and the judge from this point of view. But look, over a district judge or district judge who makes a decision, makes a judgment in one way or another, is the Supreme Court. The higher court can annul this decision, it can decide, it can return to the first stage, as we call it, and it is possible to correct the Court's error in the first stage. There's more. We have the Supreme Court, which can remedy the error of both the first and second stages, can annul the judgment. These cases actually happen every day. What's more, we've got another scene. This is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court may at any time annul all three stages: first degree, Supreme Court, Supreme Court. And not least, look, we've got a fourth guard. This is the European Court of Human Rights. It is said that the decision of the judge in the first instance is in fact four cases that can be corrected. Now that we have evened out in 2011, we have completely aligned the status of the prosecutor and the judge that this is independent of the decision-making process, this is what Mr. Zalar's masterpiece, which was adopted in this National Assembly, says – what did we do? The fact that the Head of Public Prosecutions in Ljubljana or wherever he can do literally nothing, I stress, literally nothing if the Prosecutor decides and says, "This is not a crime" or "I will not prosecute it because there is not enough evidence." In the past, we had guardians in the law until 2011, the so-called co-signature, which means that the Chief Prosecutor had to verify such a decision by the Prosecutor. It's been gone ever since. The 2015 Committee is working extremely hard not to know what everything is, you get a whole bunch of their mail and they're pretty much blaming, in quotations, including the head of the Maribor Prosecutor's Office. But, ladies and gentlemen, after 2011, no chief prosecutor can interfere. It is therefore totally unacceptable that the position of prosecutors is regulated in this way from the point of view of the decision. I hope that, sooner or later, there will be a decision and an urgent correction of this regulation, i.e. the Prosecutor's Law, which will say roughly that the Prosecutor's decision not to take over the prosecution or not to prosecute for such or other reasons – whether it is not a crime or insufficient evidence in his opinion and so on, to verify, say, some criminal offences, I will say, up to three years in prison – it must also be approved by the Prosecutor's Director. For some crimes above this limit, the border does not matter to me where, even at one year's time, a Senate of Prosecutors may decide to do so and confirm such a decision by the individual prosecutor. This, of course, will not endanger the independence of the prosecution organisation in any way, but some mechanisms will be put in place to put in place, within the prosecutor's organisation, control over the decision of the individual prosecutor, which, last but not least, may be wrong. The case, until 2011, of this kind. See, in 2010, in a case of Magnus Berglund or what this journalist from Finland, who was sued at the time privately, the prosecutor in New Town decided, “We are not locally responsible for this matter – I reject”. This was the decision of the New City prosecutor. At the time, there were mechanisms for the New City Prosecutor's Office, mechanisms at the level of the Attorney General, which she could say: "Wow, that's not going to work. If you are not competent, resign to the competent prosecutor’s office.” Well, then, that's Ljubljana. This should not happen after 2011, and it seems to me that we need to give appropriate attention to this area. A few words about sanctioning judges from the point of view of their responsibility, not only for the statute of limitations, but also for other matters. I agree with Mr Škobernet, who has said what has also been said on the Committee that sanctions are coming. In Ljubljana, during a certain period, which was also mentioned on the committee, six judges reportedly lost their jobs for various reasons, including obsolescence. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian public doesn't know that. You can imagine that the police would say, in the case of stalking or hunting, whatever it is, Mr Koprivnik said, "No, no, that's our business, we'll already make things right." And I wouldn't tell the public anything. This is the same as in the case of these judges. I am sure that the judicial branch of the authorities of this kind must also tell the public. But it is true that we have such cases, as has been said on the committee, but we also have cases where that is not the case. Look, Judge Šubic said - what? Bye bye. He's gone. And he was not subject to any sanctions within the judiciary. The next day, he became a lawyer. So we also have such cases and we need to establish a system that will be normal in this area. Mr Klemenčič spoke and was right, he spoke of the fact that it was not only the courts that were responsible for the statute of limitations. So it is likely to be necessary to establish a system that will also draw the police and the prosecution into this mechanism of responsibility for the limitation. Since it's true after all, the police can carry out a house investigation at any time. I remember some house investigations in 2012, but as far as I know from media reporting, no complaints have been filed until today. If it lasts three years, then the prosecutors will watch and study for three years, then it would be irresponsible for us to ask the judges to decide the right time, if they have two or three months left for some limitation period. So it's not just a matter of the courts, it's a matter of the whole system. We discussed this report on banking crime at a closed session earlier. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there was an Icelandic crisis in 2009, and today all Icelandic bankers are in jail. If we look at the limitations of time limits for individual crimes in our country, we are approaching a period when it is no longer possible to judge because the limitation period will be over. But we won't be able to blame the court for this, because, after all, the judges in terms of banking crime don't know what they've already received. I know one judgment that was excusable and one that was now in the first degree condemned. Where's everybody else? It is said that the police and the prosecution are responsible for the statute of limitations in the courts. I absolutely agree with that. I'd like to mention within this some mechanism we have that I think we should introduce. I don't remember exactly right now, I also have to admit that I don't remember exactly, but we are in law, I am saying now, in 2006 we introduced a rule that judges at the second stage, says senior judges, can't bring matters back to the first stage. Whether we have done so for all crimes or have done so for a particular group of crimes, I do not know any more, but that the judges in the higher courts must decide whether the judgment sits or renders their own judgment. Unfortunately, in 2009, we did an interventional repair of this law. I had already forgotten who the minister was, but as I recall, Mr. Zalar was then a minister. We intervened to fix the law so they could go back to the first stage. Here the situation is clear that one of the mechanisms that will prevent an excessive number of delays is also that judges in higher courts decide and do not return to the first stage. This would certainly be one of the contributions in the right direction. Not to speak, for example, of the pre-trial procedure and the role of investigative judges. More or less, we all know that in Europe there is no system where the investigating judge would play a role in the pre-trial proceedings, but that the police and prosecutor's decisions are those that are sitting, which are the basis for the decision in the courts. This is also probably one of the things that this country shows to fix, but now the coalition treaty, as I recall, is talking about the Criminal Procedure Act, but the coalition treaty already says that it is a great process, that it is a long process, that it will probably not end in this mandate. I don't know. I think it might be a little quick. Many times there have been speeches at various meetings of the committees or at meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission or at the meetings of this National Assembly on the balance between authorities. This was also mentioned by Mr Škoberne in the introduction, which was also discussed at the Committee's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made this a balance between the authorities, both judicial and legislative, especially here we have spoken many times and have led to absurdity. To the point of absurdity that the legislative branch of power may even threaten us, these are Mrs Kustechev's last week and not mine, and I agree with them. If we have proposed some conclusions, I will read one that I will not be too long: "The National Assembly has held a debate to end the ad hoc deliberation of criminal proceedings and the prevention of possible abuses, and notes that in order to raise confidence in the judiciary and to improve the situation in this area, concerted efforts by all three branches of government towards greater accountability, efficiency, openness and transparency are needed." Who doesn't want to sign this?Oh, my God! Are we in favour of having the judiciary more responsible to act more quickly in order to make it more effective, to carry out its business in an open and transparent manner? I don't know what these hidden forces are, who are these demons that we don't see, who prevent us Members from speaking, tie their hands so we don't vote, or force our hand to some button where it's supposed to be right. But look, this decision has not been taken. I'm sorry he wasn't accepted. Now that I am not going through all three other proposals for conclusions, I will say this, see, when we talk about the balance between authorities, and this creates a balance between the authorities of the constitution. It was established by the Constitution. Article 82 of the Constitution is clear as a day. 82. Article 82 of the Constitution means for us Members, in fact, the same as our Father, for faithful Christians. But he says that we are independent in our vote and no one can tell us how to vote. The same thing, exactly the same applies to judges. Article 125 They're bound by constitutional decisions and laws. This is a balance that is perfectly normal in the Constitution. But in reality, through the vote on the proposals of the Council of Justice or through such votes as we are talking about today, what have we done? First of all, the judiciary takes a stand: you have nothing to say about us, you have no right, you have no right or say that the judiciary does not do well, that the judiciary is too expensive, they tell us that we must not speak to them. Ladies and gentlemen, where does it say that? Not in the constitution, but not in the laws. And we, as pathike-tutics, would say in Styria, as chickens, if you like, step forward from such messages by the judicial branch of power. Ladies and gentlemen, we are independent of the vote and they are independent of the decision-making process. That's what the constitution says. However, nowhere does it say that we must not communicate our views and opinions with regard to the functioning of justice, not to decision-making, but to the functioning of justice. Actually, we have to. Look, let's turn this around. Thus, the judicial branch of power often tells us, “You must not even talk about us”, even further, your task is to technically press the button for the appointment of judges, we will understand everything else as pressure on the judicial branch of power. Now let's turn this around. The President of the National Assembly, for example, receives an immunity request for two or three Members. It's an imaginary case. How the proceedings are going, we know, and that for 20 years, no one has given themselves immunity, and we know that. But now let's turn the situation around. If the judiciary claims that we must not even talk about them, I imagine the president of the National Assembly who will step in front of the cameras and say, "Sorry, gentlemen, judges, this is an intervention in the legislative branch of power, I will not allow that." Can the president of the National Assembly say that? I don't think so. And he never says that. That is why, on their part, the judicial branch of power, we are entitled to demand exactly the same. It is exactly the same that they decide in accordance with the law, and our right is, who will be the judge, who will not, and our right is to tell them where we think that justice works badly. That is why I have never landed, and I will never agree that the National Assembly must not accept such innocent recommendations as have been proposed here. With these recommendations, we only report something else to the judiciary. We say we want a better job here, here and here, we don't get involved in making decisions. They must be independent in their decision-making. However, we must have so much pride, self-respect and, if you wish, respect for Article 82 of the Constitution that we can also tell them what is going on. And we do not agree to the jurisdiction of the legislative branch of the judiciary. I am sorry that we have not voted on these decisions, but perhaps there will be some other opportunity for my performance to take place when we are still discussing the judicial branch of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Marjana Kotnik The report will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, everyone! On the parental committee, we discussed a proposal for a recommendation to eliminate the abuse of criminal proceedings and to prevent any abuse. Among other things, proposers want the National Assembly to recommend to the Government and the Ministry of Justice that they prepare a report on the reasons for the lapse of criminal proceedings and possible abuses before the courts between 2011 and mid-2016. However, some cases of obsolescence were cited in the explanatory memorandum, which, as we have heard many times before by the same proponents, are intended to abuse justice for political purposes. The proposal for a recommendation was not adopted by the Justice Committee. Let me briefly explain why we did not support this proposal in the Desus Group. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proponents that the Institute of Obsolescence is one of the oldest and most important legal institutions known since Roman law. It is important, however, to protect the individual against the will of the State or its institutions and to complete the procedure if the accused is not found guilty within the appropriate time limit. Notwithstanding the fact that this is an important legal institution, it is very bad for all participants in the proceedings if the procedure is thus concluded. That is why we must strive for cases of weariness to be as low as possible. All parties to the procedure must ensure that the procedure is completed as soon as possible and the legislator must ensure that such legislation is adopted, by means of which the number of cases of adjuvant proceedings will be minimised. In the Desus Group, we believe that a number of positive developments have been made in this area in recent times. Thus, for example, the new Criminal Code in 2008 extended the time limits for the limitation of prosecution. Last year, however, we adopted an amendment in the National Assembly, stipulating that the delay in the execution of the sentence does not take place at a time when the convicted person is on the run or otherwise avoids the execution of the sentence or when the start of the execution of the sentence is postponed. This has certainly reduced the possibility of abuse of the Institute of Obsolescence. Data show that in recent years the number of obsolete cases has been decreasing. Thus, between 2006 and 2010, 1.3% of all cases resolved were obsolete, and between 2012 and 2015 this percentage is significantly lower, representing only a half percent of all cases resolved. If there were some 198 obsolete cases per year between 2006 and 2010, this year, I have data by the end of May, only 19 cases have expired. We can see, therefore, that the proportion of obsolete cases has decreased significantly in recent years. In the Desus Group, we are confident that this declining trend will continue in the future. It is in preparation for the amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which will soon be brought into Parliament's legislative procedure. The latter, namely the CAP, follows the objective of speeding up criminal proceedings or reducing the number of obsoletes. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposalers that obsolescence is a very poor outcome of criminal proceedings. We are pleased that statistics show that the situation in this area is improving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear Sir, Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome again! Of course, the foundation of a modern democratic society is quality, fair and, above all, effective justice, in which citizens and citizens can trust and which also gives an objective sense that, regardless of the situation, status, all citizens and citizens will be given rights and fair treatment in their social situation. It is clear that any modern democratic society based on the rule of law has a serious problem when, especially in the media and in the weight of more resilient actions and matters, processes are dragged by unreasonable lengths and, eventually, after the so-called Murphy Act, there is still a lack of epilogue to the conclusion of important and resilient processes. Why is that important? Because if this is taking place for a longer period of time, we are seriously losing confidence in justice, in the functioning of the institutions of the rule of law, and thus also in the very foundations of the statehood and confidence of citizens and citizens in the function of the state. It is therefore important that, at the meeting where we discussed the proposal for recommendations for the abolition of obsoletes, we have found that, especially after the period since the European Court of Human Rights rulings, there has been a significant decline and that we can be satisfied that the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have been presented, which we can estimate that the trend of reducing the number of obsolete cases and possible abuses will be further strengthened and that we will approach asymptotes against nothing. Several words were also addressed by the proposer to the fact that the recommendations proposed in the coalition parties were not supported. We have explained our position on these recommendations to the Social Democrats. In the case of the first recommendation, we are of the opinion that this is a self-evident fact, which we probably do not need special meetings of the Committees of the National Assembly or a general debate at this meeting. At the second point, we understood from the responses of the invited guests that the question of the relevant records and insights into the issue of deliberation of criminal proceedings has been regulated. However, in the case of the third and fourth proposals, which relate mainly to further action, we were pleased with what Minister Klemenčič said, which has announced the relevant changes and will be assessed in the National Assembly when they are on the ground. So allow me, although it is not part of the presentation of the opinions of the groups, to explain that for this reason I have also proposed that we vote that the proposal for recommendations is not suitable for further consideration, because in the first recommendation we find that it is something self-evident, that the second recommendation is a matter of substance and that in the third, we expect legislative proposals which are already in important work in the public debate. Social Democrats, however, share with the proposer and with others the concern that there is a public impression that justice is not effective enough and that we must also often talk to the other branch of government about something that should be self-evident, and this is a balance between all branches of government and also a respectful relationship between one and the other. Finally, by voting on the non-support for the appointment of a Supreme Judge in the Criminal Affairs Division, we have said that we do not agree with the only directly elected institution in addition to the President of the Republic simply being placed before the fact that judges are appointed or simply faced with facts when it comes to the question of what justice and how we want a just country. As has already been said, we support the debate and we want the previous proposals as soon as possible by the Minister of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase efficiency and reduce, in particular, procedural barriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues, one good day and I wish you a successful week! Now for the intro. In its opinion, the Government had already stated in its proposal for today's recommendations that obsolescence was an unfavourable and undesirable result of criminal proceedings and that it was a failure of a country which did not end the criminal procedure within the timeframes set. The government even welcomes the debate on this issue and supports the findings on the negative effects of the delay in criminal matters. Unfortunately, this is also all we have been able to hear in all this, despite the knowledge that in our country all too many criminal cases are obsolete, and those where ordinary citizens can find out that they are abuses of this institution and the government is satisfied with the situation. I don't know how you can. With the data that the average of 65 criminal cases is still outdated per year for reasons on the court side, we are truly concerned in Nova Slovenija. Although the Government has set the continuation of work to improve the efficiency of the judiciary in particular as a priority in the 2016/2017 National Reform Programme for Justice, we do not perceive citizens as such. Although the adoption of the novels of the Penal Code, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service last year brought minor improvements, it still does not provide for a faster and more effective trial. In Novi Slovenija, we are convinced that in the event of an expiry of criminal proceedings, we should primarily discuss the subjective responsibility of the judges, since they are obliged to make sure that there is no obsolescence. The Ministry of Justice replied to the question sent this summer to highlight this part, explaining the following. First, that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia systematically monitors criminal and criminal cases where there have been irregularities and the courts have been alerting the elderly for six months. Where the liability of the judge has been established, this shall be recorded in his personal file and shall also be taken into account in the assessment procedure of the judicial service. Secondly, that the Presidents of the Courts in accordance with the Courts Act are responsible for the work of the courts and have several instruments at their disposal in the determination of responsibility – from the assessment of the judicial service, the determination of disciplinary responsibility to the official supervision of the work of the judge under the Judicial Service Act. And that's all. But someone in this country will also have to take responsibility for the backlog, and in Novi Slovenije we stress this subjective responsibility. The Presidents of the Courts may therefore, on the basis of this reply, also determine the subjective responsibility of the Judges and also act if the Presidents themselves so wish. Unfortunately, in practice, we do not know a single case, we do not know cases where a judge would actually take responsibility or be penalised for his misdemeanour, such as failure to advance or withdraw his promotion or termination of his judicial function. As 96% of judges are still making progress, let's be careful. And judging by that, our judiciary should be making excellent progress. But at the same time, I stress once again, to progress without falling behind in criminal judgments or, I will say so, in the opinion of many criminal judgments and statutes. The proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure and a new law on the judiciary prepared by the Government, in which it sees solutions also with regard to the lengthening of prosecution and the transfer of powers with regard to the disciplinary sanctioning of judges to the Court of Justice, will not, in our opinion, bring any concrete changes. In the opinion of the Office of the Attorney General, the draft amendment of the CAP even entails an extension of criminal proceedings as it provides for the same limitation periods for all crimes, which in our view is totally unacceptable and totally wrong. This would mean that all crimes would have expired in the same way, regardless of the gravity of the crime. In Novi Slovenije, we have repeatedly pointed out the inappropriate composition of the Justice Council itself, in which the majority of the judges have a majority. However, this would require a change of constitution. It is true and essential that judges decide independently of every current authority, but this independence must not also mean their inviolability. And that's exactly what it looks like today. That the judges are untouchable. It is therefore so important to monitor the performance of their work and should include the adoption of a time period of procedures and the consideration of a low percentage of judgments falling at a higher level and the number of cases of outdated cases. Therefore, a trial period for judges would be necessary before they were appointed for a permanent term. For at least five years, in our view, we should do our work as citizens are rightly expected, only then could we permanently assume this maximum responsibility of the judge. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, also expected judges and prosecutors to answer our oral question at the previous regular session, with names and surnames, and to assume their subjective responsibility. Even in New Slovenia, as I said in the introduction, we expect this, taking on subjective responsibility rather than 96% of doctors making progress. Here we can ask ourselves where we are today. And this subjective responsibility is expected by citizens who are increasingly less trusting in the judiciary. As we have said many times, the rule of law cannot only exist on paper; the rule of law must provide all branches of authority throughout the year, every day, 24 hours a day. And it starts with the judicial branch of power. This branch of power will have to work very, very hard tomorrow not to be obsolete in these very loud cases, if you want, for example Jankovic, the case of Bavčar and so on, I do not want to speculate, but the impression that bias also arises. And of course, it's similar, not just these two cases. There will be cases such as 945 undeclared wills that due to negligence of the courts have not been taken into account in the succession proceedings. This must be done by the judicial branch of the authorities. On the basis of the above proposal, the Members of New Slovenia have supported recommendations for the elimination of delinquency in criminal proceedings and the prevention of possible abuses at a meeting of the parliamentary committee on justice. However, I want us to finally start to change things in order to come to this subjective responsibility also in the field of the judiciary. Then things would be quite different in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. We have discussed the subject on several occasions both on the Committee on Justice and on the Commission of Mandate. The judiciary has to build an image of itself and create trust. The recommendations addressed by the Committee on Justice were well-meaning and aimed at improving the situation in the judiciary. What does it matter? It is important to prevent abuses that result in excessive delinquency in criminal proceedings. This is to prevent these abuses from happening in the future and to reveal why these abuses have occurred. However, it is not only the judges who are guilty; it is also the others who delay the proceedings, as well as the experts who by their opinions make it impossible for the courts to do so. It will be necessary to change the whole approach and to assess qualitatively why there is an obsolescence in the most difficult procedures. And that throws the worst light. Of course, recommendations are only part of the subject. The most important thing is to put decision-making at the second, third and perhaps even the fourth stage. Courts shall decide at the first stage and, at the second stage, in these cases, they shall most frequently return to the first stage. The deadlines are also most taken into account at the first stage and the instructional deadlines are mostly exceeded at the following stages. Such courts should act as quickly as possible and set an example for judges at lower levels. What about the criminal judges? The past measures have increased the number of judges, improved their status, but it is precisely in these difficult procedures that we see that extensions occur. A comprehensive analysis is needed, however, of the effects of these improvements in the criminal court so far. And, of course, the third time that the Presidents of the Court and the Directors of the Court can do the most if organisational measures are needed to prevent better work. So, in these two areas, they can do a lot already. I even advocate the idea that the current legislation allows for all of this, only if we stick to the fact that the rates decide, which by law is possible, to stick to deadlines, to work even earlier, I do not accept the fact that the judge can decide even after the deadline. Then something's wrong. And of course, what he would have highlighted in particular is procedural guidance. Here's the key to the answer to prevent obsolescence. This depends on the individual judge and the career system. This career system has collapsed, as I have pointed out several times on the Mandate-Electorial Commission when judges are called to a second or third stage without judging at previous stages and checking how they are able to process the proceedings. I advocated that if the judge is so good as to go for two years or three to the first degree, he will have great grades if he is really the same as the Council of Justice, and he will be able to make progress immediately. But we'll see if he's capable of handling it. And if I paraphrase the President of the Council of Justice, the former when he said that the most noble work in the court is the trial – why does so many judges run away, have the function of judge, other works and not judge? He says, process management depends on the judge's career, his trial, and the monitoring of his career, as he judged. The data exist, only they need to be taken into account, and I have repeatedly highlighted this on the Mandate-Volution Commission. If I conclude, confidence in the court will be restored with good procedural guidance, a career system and respect for the laws that already exist, but not the time limit for the execution of judgments or worse. It is also necessary to change the thinking that the proceedings are continuous and no longer in the course of each debate and to take into account, in parallel, what is going on in the police and prosecution areas, where these proceedings are equally problematic and where there may be anomalies and the role of the Council of Justice, which should demonstrate transparently the procedures for the progress of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The rapporteur proposes in his report that the reasons for the expiry of criminal proceedings should be established and appropriate measures should be taken to eliminate future delinquency of criminal proceedings and, in particular, to prevent potential abuses. The obsolescence resulting from the conduct or omission of a judge should be taken into account in the judicial assessment of the work. Obsolescence is an unfavourable and undesirable result of prosecution, but at the same time it is an important institution of criminal law that results in the confirmation of the presumption of innocence. It represents the failure of the State to carry out criminal proceedings within the framework laid down. It has a double effect, so let's separate the lengthening of criminal prosecution and the lengthening of the execution of the sentence. In recent years, the proportion of delays in cases as well as the number of judicial delays has at least halved, and some of the amendments or measures of the Criminal Code adopted in the National Assembly have contributed to this. We are confident that the coming new procedural legislation, the law on justice and the law on criminal proceedings will also help improve the situation. However, it should be borne in mind that the problem of obsolescence is multi-layered and thus affects several bodies, both the courts, the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. The reasons for the deterioration are periodically monitored by the Council of Justice through reports, and often also cooperates with initiatives to improve the situation. In addition to the regular monitoring of the timeliness of the work of prosecutors at the time of the expiry of the deadlines, the High Prosecutor's Office shall also take appropriate action. Thus, the existing data collection and processing system allows the courts to review the status of the case. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that the issue of obsolescence needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner and that the principle of the division of power and the system of brakes and balances must be kept at the forefront. It should be borne in mind that the existence of certain objective circumstances, despite all the activities in a certain number of cases, will nevertheless lead to an ageing. For all the reasons listed, we have not supported the recommendation to eliminate the excessive criminal proceedings and prevent potential abuse on the home working body – the Committee on Justice. Not now, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your wishes for an in-depth discussion. Thank you very much. But Desus 5 minutes, SD 5 minutes, SMC 5 minutes. Thank you so much for the in-depth debate. Look, if we wanted in-depth discussions, we'd announce as much as we owe you. That means at least an hour, say SMC, and even SD could have more time. We're going back to something called two faces. One for the viewers, the camera and the microphone, and one for the truth. If we wanted an in-depth discussion, we'd report time. But that's not how you reported it, and you don't want an in-depth discussion. I would be more happy to say, "we will not discuss this." Another information for viewers or people who are watching us. Mrs Iva Dimic NSI, Franz Breznik SDS, who became ill, Jožef Horvat Nsi, Anja Bah Žibert, Chuš – he is not, Mrs Eva Irgl, Jože Tanko, Branko Grims and I. Where's the coalition? Don't you want to discuss it? You don't want to discuss it or you don't have any arguments? What's the reason? Now I have to tell the viewers that you can't even answer me because you don't have any more time because you didn't want to report him. You're misdirecting. Now, in a row. I had a little chat with my colleague Anja Bah when Mrs Porotat spoke about some abuse of justice for political purposes. I'm not going to attack you, as I would call it, because I don't know exactly what context you've been saying this in. And if Desus still has time, I think something has it, I'm asking you to explain in what context that was said. So where is the abuse of justice for political purposes? Did you hear me, Mrs. Popotat? Thank you very much. I'm really asking for an explanation because I don't know exactly what you were saying. You say the number of delays has decreased. Let me know where you have this information. I'd be very happy to see that information. But I'd like to see him in some official document. I can show you the answer to my question. There is no such data, but it is listed for 2015, and it is not listed back because I did not even insist on counting and to think kindly, I will say, I am burdening people in court. That's not what I wanted. How do you know that the number of elderly people has decreased? It is true that the Minister or Secretary of State, I no longer know who he was, or even the President of the Court, I do not know who he was, was talking about some information that I did not have at the time of preparing this request, because I did not get it either. It is official, however, that we have a section entitled “Resolved by Stopping the Procedure. ” Except that you have supernatural powers, that you know that you're getting smaller or that you have connections with the minister, you have to have them because you're a coalition. This is not official or has been counted on my question. That's possible. I ask you very much, Mrs Porotat, for an explanation – the abuse of justice for political purposes, what was meant. I hope you get a replica or something right away. I want you to get your word right away. Now what do you argue with Mrs. Korenjak? Nothing, as you also did not say anything, except that you were against the decision and there are no arguments or that you have not already supported the matter on the committee. With Mr. Skobernet, I have a little controversy. It is true that the first conclusion is self-evident, but I purposely wrote a self-evident conclusion because it was self-evident for me to confirm. It's self-evident what the first conclusion says. And that's why it's also self-evident to confirm it, and you didn't. Look, it's perfectly self-evident that if you steal 5 billion, or if a group of people steal 5 billion from banks, they go to jail. It's also self-evident. But it's not in Slovenia. As the motioner pointed out at the previous point, I don't know how many cases I can't talk about, of course, because of the camera he's filming me, and the people who are looking at me, it's a secret in this country, so it's also self-evident that you steal five billion and there's nothing. That's what practice says. I really expected you to support at least the first decision, and no one supported it. The Minister has announced changes in this area. I agree that he also spoke about this on the committee. But I did an analysis of the coalition treaty in the field of justice, which I'm going to talk more about at the point of the agenda of interpolation when it's on the order, but there's nothing there, and you still have a year and a half. I've also looked very carefully, and I've disputed that you believe the Minister. It's right that you believe him because you have to because you're a coalition because I'm an opposition, but I have to be skeptical. I analyzed his performance at the hearing. There are about 20 areas listed there, if I counted them right, between 18 and 20, where it was very clearly announced in this performance, “I will do this, I will do that, I will name that group, that group, we will clear that up, that will have priority, and I will go after the fire and the sword, and those statements have been. But when I was watching the ministry, I had found nothing to do, even with fire and sword, I had never seen anything done, except shouting at me. If that's it, then we're a little off. It happens a lot, not always. And I'm skeptical of what's gonna happen. For once, there's nothing to suggest that any of this would be possible. But I can agree with Judge Karakash on the matter. We can agree here. But Judge Karakash is not the result, in my opinion, of my personal opinion, not of the in-depth thinking of Members, of the in-depth judgment of Members, but of the arrogance of the Council of Justice. I am sure that Mr would probably have been elected if the Council of Justice were not as arrogant as it was, and would not have literally insulted the Members. What the Council of Justice did. The Karakash case is not my assessment of the light at the end of the tunnel, which could create a normal relationship between the legislative and judicial branches of power, but rather the case and the fruit of arrogance. I don't see that light at the end of the tunnel. I will see this light at the end of the tunnel, I think not in this mandate, but in front of television in one of the following mandates, and there I believe that when Parliament thinks with its head. When Members do not listen to the centres of power, including ministers, even if they are theirs, if you wish, but will still decide with their heads. Mr Battelli spoke at the previous point in congratulating him, the oldest Member is among us all beside Mr Janša, but if you consider his work in the executive branch of power, he is the first and probably knows much. For he told us that we are an abnormal country and that we, too, are Members of the National Assembly who should do otherwise. He was talking about the bank hole, and I was talking about the relationship to justice. We support the debate, once again, thank you very much, but you didn't sign up. So how do you support the debate? Thank you very much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	Dear Vice President. Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! Some things have come up in these introductory presentations that I have to answer. I will begin with what honourable Member Gorenak has pointed out, but not without taking the coalition colleague to the defense now, but I must take her to the defence, because I have also presented this information in the opening address. It's been said where this data came from that you don't have the data and so on. The information has been presented on the committee, it is said to the public. I also presented the data here at the plenary session, from here and from the committee, honourable Member Popot could also have received them. Now I must add to this, Commissioner, Mr Vinko Gorenak, you said that you did not get them in my reply to the question. I guess that's true. You must know that I think you've sent me over 80 questions in my mandate, if not more. I am a distant recorder of the number of questions I have received in full in this two-year term, I think there have been 180 of them, most of them from your party, sometimes I wonder that I have two people in the ministry who only have to work for the SDS. A bit of a joke, but that's true. Far, far most of the questions sent. Most of the questions sent are also those where I cannot answer them or my professional service and turn to the court. I answered what we knew at the time and then we tried to find more answers and presented them to all Members, not just you, but the entire Slovenian public. That's the first thing. The other thing is, I'm gonna go back to that, look, we're talking about three things right now. There she is, but we have a problem. The problem is also, according to the data, inappropriately smaller than it was a few years ago, even when your government was in position. The problem is smaller, but we're not reducing it. Any obsolescence is unacceptable to me. What we can do to ensure that old age is as low as possible and that, in those cases, when it comes to maturity, we can transparently identify responsibility. We can do two things about the process. The proceedings before the courts in civil and criminal law are governed by two laws — the Law on Judicial Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure. Most of you, one more detailed, the other less, the third part, the fourth completely put some elements that affect it. One is the return from the second stage. Dear Dr. Gorenak, you were talking about changing the law, and under Zalar, it was changed back. That's the first I've heard of it, and I know a lot about it. That's the first I've heard of it. Never, except in the proceedings of the Labour and Social Court, has such an arrangement been established. It may have been proposed, but it has never been adopted in the National Assembly. That's what we're doing now. By amending the Law on Judicial Procedure and amending the Law on Criminal Procedure, we undertake a second stage to decide and to return as little as possible to the first stage, that is the first thing. Another problem that helps Slovenia greatly to extend procedures is medical excuses. Even here no government has ever sharpened it, this government has done so. She did so in the work on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and in the law on criminal proceedings before the government, she also did so with regard to criminal proceedings. The next thing is not to take over legal writings, about which you also have some experience in your parliamentary group. This is where things need to be sharpened, so in the Law on Justice and in the Law on Criminal Procedure, we tighten these things and otherwise regulate the service. So much for the process itself that can contribute to aging. I'll put another footnote here. It is important to be aware, I hope we are aware of this, because we often throw so little into flatland Iceland. We have four degrees – we have a first-degree court, we have a Supreme Court, we have a Supreme Court and we have a Constitutional Court. They have the District Court and the Supreme Court in Iceland. Pika. They don't have a court of appeal, they don't have a Constitutional Court. Therefore, a decision was taken relatively quickly in banking cases. It's not that fast, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, not so fast. The first sentence was acquittal. The first sentence — don't laugh, asshole, I was up there, I was talking face to face with their prosecutor. He said that the first sentence we got was an exemption, then we went to the Supreme Court, which then, based on our arguments in about eight months, decided what was bad banking practice and what was crime. And it's based on that. This must go through the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, etc. By the way, they don't have specialized courts in Iceland. It's one of the important things. Prolongation or the matter of prosecution decisions or judicial investigations. Mr Gorenak, I look forward to hearing the Law on Criminal Procedure in the National Assembly because I agree with everything you have said about this. I hope we'll be at the same wavelength then, because we're not all. The prosecution is very strongly resisting this, including the Bar Association. You're saying you don't know I was just talking about it. It has been on the website of the Ministry of Justice since April in the public debate of the proposal for a law amending the criminal procedure governing the verification of the prosecution decision on, say, the cessation of prosecution. Because I agree. We are one of the few, if not the only European country where, when the Prosecutor decides, there is nothing left but a subsidiary prosecutor who we know is not the most effective. We have been changing this since April. On the website, www.mp.gov.si, because you said several times you didn't find anything that I would have done, so I promised. As a matter of fact, that's one thing. The second thing is to gradually reduce the investigation before an investigative judge. Before your colleague Logar began to talk about how we have a problem with banking crime, because police hearings have no evidentiary value – a bill was drafted in April and has been on the website since April, he was in public debate, now in an interdepartmental debate and is just ahead of putting it into parliamentary procedure. So much for the trial. Another is the question of responsibility. So, the process needs to be fixed, and we did it. This will come to Parliament as soon as possible. Well, look, you say nothing has been done at this time. When you get all these laws, you already have them on the website, but you will say that we accept things too quickly and uncoordinatedly, which we listen to from some other builders. But these are not things where you change two, three articles, but each of these proposals is comprehensive, it has to be consistent and it is aimed at making procedures run faster, more efficient, so that individuals, legal persons and ultimately the country can get to justice faster. Responsibility. The Law of the Council of Justice. No one's prepared or accepted it yet. This government has done so, and this week's or next week's judicial council law will be in government, changing the disciplinary responsibility of judges as well as the greater transparency of the functioning of the Council of Justice. I can agree with the trial period as proposed by Nova Slovenija, yes, I am also in favour of this, but the Constitution needs to be amended. Yes, how nice, but not, in this sense, I am the Minister of Justice, I have to collect my priorities and now I will gather for a priority something that would commit to greater transparency and accountability of the actions of 900 plus judges and judges who are already judges in the Republic of Slovenia, and we are doing so through the Law on the Judiciary, through a change of court order, where for the first time in Slovenia every register will be public and accessible on the Internet, only technical solutions are still being made where all judgments will be public, only technical solutions are still being made and are in the final stage and work by the Institute of Joseph Štefan. Or go to the fight to change the constitution, where for those five or six judges and judges, who are going to go into a change of constitution every year when the number of judges and judges decrease. That's what I'd like. But to be honest, even though I know you're going to abuse those words later, it's not my priority, because I have to work with the system that judges today. But I hope we get to that one. I believe, and this has been our priority and mission at the Ministry of Justice to achieve these objectives through the change in procedural rules, through the change of organisation, through the change in the judicial network and through the significantly greater transparency of the judiciary, which, irrespective of political colour, are all the same to us. I believe there'll be some talk about this on Wednesday. As Dr Vinko Gorenak has already mentioned, I am very much looking forward to Wednesday's interpretation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much. All due respect! I have a minute of 20 seconds just enough to do what a Member is obliged to do, namely to say here in this arena what simple people are thinking when we are talking about outdated criminal procedures. Simple people find out and are convinced that in this case, when it comes to the lengthening of criminal proceedings, it is an abuse and it stinks here. We have this task to remove this stench. Finally, Dr Cerar, President of the Government, said that his vision was green Slovenia, if I may speak a little in parable. Last night I had a very pleasant conversation with the citizens, and when I quote the President of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, who says, "There are judges who don't write down judgments even in a year," simple people from the countryside say that this one should never write any more in his life, because he should immediately strip off a court order. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we go to the field and ask people and listen to their expectations, if the government is walking on the ground and listening to people's expectations, I suggest that judges go to the field and ask what simple people, taxpayers, think about the judicial branch of power or trust in our judiciary, who is really low this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I think that on Friday at a so-called public meeting on the report of the investigative commission on banking crime and the search for responsibility, as well as on closed work today, we have heard that there is one major mess in this country and that there is no one in this country who is responsible for this mess. She fell like a joke on Friday, I think, the first conviction is condemned, but we'll see how and what. I'm taking this a little more for a joke because it was Friday. Why this doesn't happen, there are different reasons. One is to ensure that the procedures are not completed. It was said, the complaints are coming back. I see the first problem here. The minister said that, but we have four degrees and it goes from one, two, and so on. Why are they going back? Why, though, does the matter have to come even to the Constitutional Court to determine that something is very wrong in the proceedings? I would not boast with this that the problem is how many levels we have, but especially why we need to use them, what is happening to our judicial system, that it has to come even to the Constitutional Court to see violations that ultimately point to constitutional breaches. And that, Mr. Minister, you know very well because you've done the same thing and you're going to have a hard time talking about it. Of course, obsolescence in some criminal procedure is the most undesirable result on the one hand, but if we look at it from the point of view of those who want it in this country, it is most appropriate for washing hands. It's out of date and it's over. That's exactly why these procedures are even more problematic. Also in the report presented at the meeting of the Committee, it is important that, in more important matters, there has not been a reduction in matters of importance. 7.1 months is the average. Before the minister said it took eight months in Iceland, we have an average of 7.1. What does that actually mean? Let me say for an example that I think is also from the point of view of the debate that we have had these days that is more than significant. In 2010, in court proceedings, the time limit expired when practically the case had been drawn up since 1990. It was an injury to the bank in the majority state-owned state and it was a circus of 10 million euros, respected, 10 million euros. I think twice as much would be enough to negotiate if the numbers were real. The case is out of date, and nothing happened to anyone. These are all the grounds identified by the Commission of Inquiry. Since nothing happens, it is comforting to those who do, or who do, new maggots who find out, because nothing happens in this country, it is important that you know who you are shaking hands with, who you are meeting and what you are dealing with will somehow be resolved. The Commission of Inquiry also notes that the biggest problem is in the area of justice. The Minister is with us today, and I very much welcome that he is with us, but for example, he was not with us on Friday. What happened on Friday? On Friday, we discussed the emergence of bank responsibility in relation to the bank hole and liability and where matters should work more effectively. And the justice system was mentioned. I am surprised that someone who, right, went to Iceland, or after two years of office, did not come to the National Assembly, where the Commission of Inquiry found what the law enforcement authorities should have found, but they did not. Not again. The Commission, composed of representatives of parliamentary parties, and one and a half co-chairmen, has practically identified more within a few months than all those who have indeed been directly called to do so in this country. If only those data were collected together, there would probably be some home visits today, but not the one for the public when the whole police came with all the lights, they were shaking the houses, and then, you know, the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born, and then there was nothing, but specifically. However, Slovenia is completely different. To return to what has actually been rejected on the parental committee, to say that this does not belong in our work and that we are interfering with the jurisdiction of another branch of power. First recommendation, Your Honor. The National Assembly held a debate to eliminate the excessive criminal proceedings and prevent potential abuses, and notes that a coordinated effort by all three branches of government is needed to raise confidence in the judiciary and to improve the situation in this area in order to make the matter more effective. Thus, we are talking about an initiative for the coordinated functioning of all three branches of government, which is an overstatement for someone. Secondly, to prepare a report on the lengthening of criminal proceedings. Overruled. See, the data shows that in 2015, if I am not mistaken, 33 cases were outdated and at the second stage, and 36 criminal cases in the District Courts. But we don't even know what these things are. Do we know what they are? Do we know which judges led them? Do we know what kind of financial damage this caused? We don't know. But you're voting against the National Assembly getting some specific information. Commissioner Vinko Gorenak asked for information from 2010 onwards in order to verify matters. And the answer is, you can't get that because you need to physically review the files. Physically examine the files. Even if I had to, though, I don't know, I've heard a lot about the information cloud in the National Assembly at the time of the two budgets. I don't know. He probably blew up in the justice department. What if I have to! It is necessary to know who is responsible for the statute of limitations, as we are responsible for the adoption of laws or those adopted by them, that is, the judge who is the official, because they keep saying that they are officials, we need to know who is responsible for it. We don't know. So this decision was not adopted either, and in the coalition you whistled at it with an excuse not to fall within our jurisdiction. Thirdly, to draw up a plan with proposals for measures that will allow for the future to put an end to the delay in criminal proceedings. Yes, I'm asking you nicely, and if something is even being prepared, yes, then you're also rejecting what's being prepared because it's talking about measures here. In fact, we could say, "Look, this is our action." And then the fourth conclusion, which is similar, about the statistics I've already talked about. Today's session, you know, is also very much tied to that Friday or this morning. Hell, yeah. As it is said, the biggest problem is in justice. Now I also have something to say to the minister, who, in fact, was here to argue with or debate with a colleague, he heard me out of the microphone, and he responded. And in Iceland, the first thing went down. Yeah, just in Iceland, you know, there's 47 prisoners today. But you know what happens to us in the case of these banks that we've been talking about for two days, and maybe the minister didn't think it was worth it. Maybe it's because he knows things very well in person. Nina Zidar Klemenčič was losing on the liquid tape. For a million euros. Finally, I'm saying there was a miracle on Friday. A million euros, respectable, went into the pockets of the proceedings falling. If we were really good at following everything the Commission has found, one procedure should not fall. And I'm not gonna tell you who's responsible. The fact is, these procedures have failed. I wonder if that's how it was in Iceland, given that 47 of them are already sitting. A colleague, Eva Irgle, who warned of this on Friday at an open-ended session during the commission’s report, led by Dr. Ange Logar, pointed out this. And she was right. If we are to fight banking crime, it is necessary for all those who are called upon to do so to do so. First, let's find out, but, like I said, not by coming seven, eight cars, all armed, then, "Hey, now one's gonna fall, now finally." [[…]] Then get lost. And those who then have to investigate the matter to the end and conclude that there will be a conviction. Earlier, something was said in a reply to colleague Vink Gorenak that everything was presented by the first man of the Supreme Court. Come on, what he says will be the other way around! Just remember these lost wills when we get other data every day. And about what he was saying about a table at a bar, then not to be, but it turns out that one sitting there found himself in that statement without the name being told. If that wasn't the case, then how did you get there? What these representatives of the court say, I think we're getting used to taking very, very carefully now. Mr Klemenčič also said that they are preparing packages now, except that it will not be us who will say that these things are going too fast. Mr Klemenčič, you really forget, because it was you who spoke in this country that things should not be taken too quickly, because this is a problem of transparency. Now you're telling us that we're going to be the one to say that now these things are going to happen too fast. And you have to face it and somehow sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of your own thoughts, which is too fast, but too slowly, just not have two criteria, because no matter what function you've been in, I don't think you can change that kind of thing. Also, some things in this country are becoming obsolete in order not only to get what we owe, but to overwhelm someone. And they come in handy for these things, too. Patricia's out of date. What for? And then they even say it's because it would hurt the party in the process. But the client did everything she could to get the epilogue. That's why those leaks, and you're targeting some of them to the SDS Group, please, Minister, it doesn't make sense! Even when it threatened the President of the Government, that matter was out of date. And Elan's out of date. And if we're fighting crime and we're dealing with fraud coming behind bars, then we're already gonna hit the table, so much the more if we come from Iceland and figure out how things went down there. But, you know, Minister, when you were talking about Iceland, it would be fair and right to say something else, because that's also part of what was rejected on the board, if we don't have any jurisdiction and we can't get to the data. There, all matters concerning fraud have been made public. I don't know how many thousands of pages there are of documentation that clearly says that there have been abuses and who they were and for how long. Look, it's the taxpayers' money. But with us, we have judges like Desa Cenner, who don't even give the paperwork. You don't have to go to Iceland to do that. That should be arranged at home. As in one case, heads are supposed to fly, and in this case, they are expected to fly for a few years. But no, even here you've been explaining and looking for reasons to pronounce this judge. Let the minister really make sure that some head flies away, but not the one you may not like politically, and neither do I, but let's be definitive, and let's start with these heads from the beginning, from the top down. That's where you need to go first. You're laughing and the citizens are crying, Minister. Also because your budget is higher [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	Because I believe that the Minister will respond to this implementation, I would still take advantage of it more procedurally than I do, but it goes into the frame of my time, so count what you want. At the outset, I asked Mrs Popot to explain that sentence, saying the abuse of justice for political purposes, because I did not understand the context in which she spoke. She has 21 seconds at her disposal and I'm afraid that this is too little to explain to me, so, Mr Vice President, please, if you give her a word for at least five minutes, let my time run out, as if I was speaking, that is, the time of the proposer, because I would really like to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat is not registered for discussion, so we would not discuss this. Mr. Andrey Couch is gone. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Here you go, mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak said I'd probably answer Mrs. Anji Bah Žibert or vice versa, but she didn't ask any wise questions, nor did she make any conclusions. I don't know why I wasn't here last week when we talked about this, I don't think I was invited, I wasn't talking about it. But you said something that shocked me so much about my wife, it's not true. As far as I know, it's not true, and I wouldn't be surprised if it didn't, because there's already a thing like this coming, because you know what it's like to be a "personal," and you'll be like that, I believe I'll explain it and then I'll be able to answer you. Of course, because we're not talking about me, but about my family members, you have to be very careful that you provide real information and not some kind of lie or discredit, because it's something that I'm used to. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. President-in-Office, I spoke in my debate about the facts, Fridays and today's debate, about the writings followed by the Slovenian Democratic Party as a proponent. I now believe that at some point the debate may have been too painful for the Minister to follow me. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to remind him that I have spoken about very specific matters, namely the four conclusions. In all four conclusions, I also explained what the problem was because they had been rejected. And I also linked them to one of the biggest problems we have in the country, that's banking crime. So I ask you, Vice-President, to warn the Minister that, although I believe that what matters are too difficult for someone, there is still an entire debate to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Now it seems to me that I have to take my colleague Anjo Bah Žibert to the defense here, because I was at Friday's session when we talked about the report concerning the Factor Bank and Probanka, actually mentioned that the criminal and indemnity charges against the former have just been filed or prepared by Nina Zidar Klemenčič. That this is true, Mr Minister, that Mrs Klemenčičeva has earned close to EUR million, this information is clear here. I have here a document that was part of the documentation that we talked about on Friday, but you were not at this meeting, although in my opinion, given that you are fighting banking crime, you were also in Iceland, where you first-hand could see how to close 47 of those responsible for the bank hole, you were there on Friday at this session. But it clearly says here that for the representation of Factor Bank against the former administration, by the way, your wife lost all the lawsuits, except for the last one that happened on Friday, and earned 887 thousand 971,28 euros. These are the data, the facts that are clear from the file. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's a procedural abuse because it has nothing to do with the procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Presidents, now like this. I don't think colleague Eva Irgle has abused procedure, no, and that's a fact. And the fact is, if we were to hold an objective session now, I would, on the basis of the documents she showed, ask the minister to apologize to me for saying that I was discrediting the family with the wrong data. And I expect an apology. If you are not able to say this as President to protect the integrity of the Member concerned with specific information, then I personally call and will protect myself from being excused by the Minister. I was talking about concrete data that was proven by the report, and the minister said I was going to discredit my family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I don't know the data, and I can't discuss it at this level. I have to give the word or the minister answers by [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I do not go into the debate of individual Members, or I do not go into the debate about what Mr Minister says. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	I just want to say something. I'm not gonna apologize. You know why? Because I didn't answer a number I don't even know. No, in your opinion, as you often do, you implied that the court or the prosecution or I did not do my job because my wife represented a private bank in the past. And that. I'm just getting questions, it's also interesting that those who were involved in the conviction that was last week, that some of them were also with me in Iceland, and if now it's possible because I influenced them. You know, this is really crazy with us. But you implied, you said if, because you already know why and so on. You confronted me with something I don't know, and you linked it to me not doing my job, which is, of course, a discredit. But look, I know you'll respond again now, and I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Procedurally, please, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Chairman. This one's really bad, because what the minister just said wasn't said anywhere. You, Minister, have attacked me to deal with your family when I told you how the lawsuits were lost in the case of the banks, and that it would be very good to be at this meeting, but there is an option, of course, that you know about the data. I don't know how anyone controls it, but on the budget, once a million people almost know you, you know. And what was the deal with the family? And the president, I seriously ask you to warn the Minister. What happened in Iceland and who went with him and what messages the minister gets, I don't care because I didn't talk about it. I talked about Iceland about when we went to Iceland in Slovenia and what the results are there and where we are in Slovenia. And I didn't say anything like that. Of course, the minister won't respond anymore because he has nothing to do with it, but I don't allow it either. I've told the minister that many times. He's gonna have to settle down in his own universe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Yes, but please, if you consider this to be a procedural word, not a final word. I'll check in with that guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Good. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you. I do not like to interfere in the conduct of the meeting, but, look, Vice-President, you said earlier, Mrs Popotat must not get a word because she has not been reported, but the Minister has got the word, which should not have been obtained by the Rules of Procedure, he has already had the floor. But I understand that he wanted to respond, he said something, I'm not going into the content, we're going through the rules of procedure. That's a fact. So go once more past the Rules of Procedure and give the floor to Mrs Porotat. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	I apologize to you, I have indeed reacted, myself, because it seemed important to me to respond directly, but Mrs Popotat will be able to come forward after we have our distribution. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. I have also made a procedural application to close this matter once because Mr Gorenak is very interested. See, Mr Gorenak, on the fifth page of the Proposal for a Recommendation to Eliminate the Longevity of Criminal Procedures and to Prevent Possible Abuses, it reads: “It is also true to point out, for example, the question of arrears, to Patricia, who is involved in the abuse of justice for political purposes, by which she wanted to influence elections” etc. So the Patricia case is a case like this, and I didn't mention it before, but it's written here. That's what I meant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much. That was, dear colleague, an abuse of procedure. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. But I'm still glad that this abuse occurred, that at least we cleared something up. I first understood you as saying that this meeting is an abuse and an attack on justice, but now I see that you did not have those intentions or that you did not say the matter like that. Since I still have time, let me put it this way. Look, Patricia is an abuse of justice for political purposes. This is clearly clear, since this is, in fact, a slightly different word, but indeed, a very different word was said by the Constitutional Court when it said that the matter falls to Article 28 of the Constitution. But this one speaks to my memory that no one can be judged for an act he has not committed. If the Constitutional Court were to go a little further, let's say, widely, as was the case with the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, where you well know that the Constitutional Court went, in the opinion of all, including constitutional lawyers, beyond all standards. In view of the laws adopted by the National Assembly, this is quite clear by our constitution and the Constitutional Court is judging them. The Constitutional Court, however, established the Municipality of Ankaran as a legislator. It went through, as it's called. If the Constitutional Court had taken another step, not just A, said A, Article 28 of the Constitution had not been respected, which means that no one could be tried for an offence that is not a crime, the Constitutional Court could have committed B. This is, in order to say, the procedure is over because it is not a crime. However, the matter has returned to the first stage and we are now witnessing all this saga, whether it is obsolete or not, which we could avoid. It is for me and it will be an abuse of the entire judiciary, not only of justice, but of the police, the prosecution and the judiciary for political purposes. This is what the Constitutional Court has said, and we cannot go, but we just have to read the Constitutional Court's decision right and between the lines. To conclude, I regret and regret that I will not speak for 46 minutes, even though I can speak for two school hours together, let's just say I have to do it in the classroom, but I won't do it. To conclude, I note that unfortunately, despite the fact that there is a bright point in the relationship between Parliament and justice, there is still a bright point there, we still do not have a clear state of affairs in this area and in the relationship between justice and the legislative branch of power. This means that everyone performs his or her duties within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. And there is still a literal attack on the judiciary, I am thinking on the Council of Justice, on the legislative branch of power, with most Members except for the bright exceptions – when we are talking about the vote on Judge Karakash. Except for the bright exceptions, nothing happened. To conclude, let me say something else about what Mr Minister has been saying. Look, it's probably true, but you were there, you know how this court is organized there now. He doesn't have as many degrees as ours. I am aware that it is also not a matter of one law to simplify matters in the Slovenian space as much as they have simplified, as I understand from your words. But as a result of this visit, perhaps we can only promise some steps towards simplifying the proceedings before our courts, which we could possibly do in those 15, 16 months, as far as you still have them. You were really talking on the board about the number of delays, but at the time we were writing this request, I didn't have this data. We need to know that. I got the data for 2015, not back because you said there was too much administrative work back there. That's right, there was too much administrative work for me, and there wasn't too much administrative work to prepare for your performance in the National Assembly. In the future, I expect to receive such information as is necessary. That's what you've been talking about, 80 questions you sent. I don't know how long it's been, 350 officials or how many there are, actually. And the parliamentary issues you have pointed out are an instrument of opposition. When I write the Members' questions that I refer to you, I mean help you. Either that sounds funny or stupid. Look, if I ask you when, I don't know, you're gonna pull this off, and what you promised, it's just that I remind you and your employees in the middle of work to remember that you promised something, and you haven't done anything yet. And that's for my own good. I received very few questions in my mandate, and I don't know if I got five in that year or 13 months. But it's a matter of opposition. Yes, in my ministerial office, I'm sorry. It's a matter of opposition, if he doesn't ask anything, then it's nothing. But ministers are in favour of answering questions with the help of their officials. My parliamentary questions are intended solely on the one hand to draw attention to the situation in justice and on the other hand to the admonition that I will not tell you that things that have not yet been done must be done. You were talking about a permanent term and possible allegations that you didn't do it. I don't know if it makes sense. I'm not gonna tell you. Why? Because the coalition contract says, "We'll do our best." But as soon as it says in the coalition contract, "we'll do our best"; it usually means the same as – we won't do it, but it would be good. I myself co-created a coalition contract for the other Janša government, then I was also responsible for the final text, as I recall, and directly for the judicial part and part of the internal affairs. I must say that I am with the search engine Editing – Find the words "we will work hard". And all the constituents of the coalition treaty on our part were warned that those words should not be in there; either we do or we will not do. Because "we're going to work" usually means – we're not going to do it. There is probably too little time to change the constitution in this area; because the change in the constitution in this area is the permanent mandate of the judges, what you have written down, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, and they usually tell us that we want to end the permanent mandate, which is not at all true, is actually that you have taken after us. All our programmes say that a permanent mandate is a matter that must remain; however, we must introduce a longer trial period. You have now written this in a coalition contract, and I am sure that these procedures would begin immediately at the beginning of your mandate instead of drinking water, and then this constitutional right to drinking water goes crazy, like it did some day ago, and we have a crazy constitutional right. A little joke, a little bit. But if, at the outset, we were to start procedures to change the constitution in terms of a trial period before a permanent term, I am sure that we would do a good job in the long term, to do something smart in the long term and to take a step towards improving the situation in the judiciary in the long term. But now I'm afraid it's too late or too late. At your hearing, I welcomed the fact that you would make the first law of the Council of Justice. I'm looking forward to it, thank God if that happens if you don't have any problems. I welcome your announcement to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, I have no problem with this matter, and of course the CAP. The CAP even says in your coalition contract that this is most likely to last more than four years. And if you've managed to do it, it's okay. I'm not going to be on the side of those who throw your pollen under your feet at the CAP, not at all, because I'm not changing my position. I'm afraid you'll have more problems within the so-called profession, which is no profession for me, which is a self-proclaimed profession, and that you'll have more problems perhaps even in the coalition. However, if - I emphasise - if this is the case with the State Prosecutor's Office in the direction of establishing control over the Prosecutor's decisions, as I mentioned earlier, then this is to be concluded. And the hook from our side on this part will certainly be; only that there will be no strange hanging in this cake, so that it will not be digestible. Even if the CAP goes in the direction of simplifying things and abolishing the so-called judicial investigation, this is a step in the direction that has long been taken by all of Europe. And it will have to be strong; here I think you will need the sword and fire scraping onions, which is somehow characteristic of your performances. [[…]] But this sword will have to be directed against all those who scream that the judicial investigation must remain, against those who will scream, how the prosecutor must be independent; against those you will have to wave. Against the opposition on these two segments, I stress that it will not look funny to praise you because I have no intention of you, on these two segments the matter is fine. That's it. However, I think that the coalition could be capable, but unfortunately it is not, more constructive debate in this area and more time. Because if you report 5 minutes for the entire Party Group of the Modern Center, you see that you are for almost a large bus, then 5 minutes will not be enough; because this is a sign that you do not want to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. You've got your word. The time has not yet run out if there is still a desire to discuss, please sign in. This shall also apply to the representative of the Government and to the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	I quit because I was counting on them to sign up without a relationship. I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the Proposal for a Recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the Proposal for a Recommendation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. The bill is at the 29th session of the 26th session. 10. treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Following the Committee's discussion, the Committee agreed that the draft law was not suitable for further consideration and that the second consideration of the draft law at the working body meeting had been completed. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I was afraid I was going to talk to myself, but I can see that there was something left of you after the sent-offs. Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on this bill. The draft law was also rejected by representatives of the Desus Group on the home working body. The bill provides for the mandatory consent of supervisors, i.e. the supervisory board and the government as a assembly, to sell state shares in companies. Government consensus when it comes to important and strategic investments, as well as the agreement of the Supervisory Board when it comes to portfolio investments of greater value. In our parliamentary group, we do not agree with the proposed solution, because in our view we are interfering with the fundamental concept of legal regulation, which, inter alia, is based on the separation of the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State. One of the most important apostles and the aims of the Slovenian State Holding Act are to separate the function of the State as owner of capital investments from other functions of the State. Simplifyly put, separation of policy from management. In addition, the Statute of the Slovenian State Holding already provides that, among other things, the SDH Administration needs the supervisory board's consent to make available investments exceeding EUR 5 million of the revised accounting value of each business. The Slovenian state holding company has management and has a capital investment management strategy, which must be followed strictly. If we are not satisfied with management, we should thank him for his cooperation, which would not have happened for the first time. However, there is no need for policy to be involved in each decision. The proposal also provides that SDH should classify investments that are on the list of fifteen sales companies. At this point, I must point out that in the Desus Group we would like to reopen, that is to say, to change the strategy, but also to evaluate those companies that have been left behind from this so-called famous list and have been included in the strategy as a portfolio. However, we want to do so in accordance with the existing law. The classification of investments in strategic, important and portfolios can only be determined by a strategy adopted by the National Assembly and will then be an opportunity to do so. In doing so, let me stress our strong position and our belief that the strategy is a living matter that can and must be changed when reasons arise; it does not change on the basis of daily political decisions. It is true that even in the Desus Group we were not always and always satisfied with certain decisions made by the national asset manager, as we have also stated clearly and visually in the past. However, we believe we are convinced that the solution is to choose competent, responsible and trustworthy people; and not to constantly change legislation, which is why we are not and will not support the proposal of this law. Let me put it this way. We will always stand firm in the position that the management of state property is strictly governed by the letter of the law and the strategy is applied in accordance with clear criteria, criteria and objectives. In doing so, we will demand, I stress, the full responsibility of all those involved in these processes. In doing so, we will not only require their personal responsibility, but also criminal and compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we are also considering today at a meeting of the National Assembly, is only one of the many laws that we have met with in the last period in order to change the way government property is managed. On this occasion, however, it should be said that the reason for such laws is that it is obvious that this is a completely inconvenient form of governance. In particular, we must be aware that it is a social property that has changed into state property; but we forget that it is our private, private property of the entire community. Many times it's made to think that it's state property, like it's nobody's property. It is the property of every individual in Slovenia, so it is right to manage it as well. However, when we look at the thinking and understanding of corporate governance in Slovenia when it comes to the management of the property of the entire community, we conclude that this understanding is designed in a way that owners, so people, should not know how to manage this property. If they want to get to know this through the National Assembly, where we are representatives of the people, it is understood as interfering with policy in corporate governance. So a completely flawed message and a way of understanding that we have encountered since the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding. Another problem is the appointment of representatives to the Supervisory Board of Companies. One of the important criteria to be met by representatives of supervisory boards in companies operating the property of the entire community is the certificate of the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia organised as a private association. So a private association of supervisors controls the property of the entire community. This process is also completely indelible, flawed and, therefore, we have a very high degree of mistrust of people to manage it in this way. Only Parliament is a representative of the people and only Parliament can accept each individual, I stress, each individual sale of property of the entire community. This must not be left to the consent of supervisors as provided for in the proposed law. This is also one of the reasons why this proposal cannot be supported. However, it is a fact that the Social Democrats want the debate on urgent changes in the management of human property to continue. That is why we certainly need people in the right places who will be responsible for this work and that it will also be properly designed to control it. In particular, the highest standards and personal responsibility must also be respected in order to restore the confidence of citizens and citizens in the system of managing their common assets. Therefore, at the level of the government coalition, we also expect the conclusion of discussions on how to regulate this area, how to improve the management of our common assets and how doubts are cleared up or restored to people's confidence in this. One of these opportunities is for sure the establishment of a demographic fund which can be an effective response to the objective of people's property being managed in a way that preserves this property or that preserves it, but not sold out. Only in this way will we be able to assure young generations that in twenty, thirty years they will also be able to receive part of their pension on behalf of our common property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Privatisation has disappeared more or less in the last year from the public radar; it has by no means ended. The sale of our companies continues and the disputed practices – not only in sales, but also in the management of companies now under the auspices of SDH – continue and are far from over. Therefore, for the third time in this mandate in the United Left, we have proposed amendments to the SDH Act, which would at least limit the negative effects of these processes if we cannot stop them because of the will of this Government. In these minutes, which I still have at my disposal, because our proposal has been declared inappropriate for further consideration, I will once again take a quick look at the changes we have proposed. Firstly, we have proposed that the SDH Supervisory Board should be extended to ten members, so that the trade unions will receive half of these. We have proposed this because we firmly believe that working representatives in the supervisory world would never have agreed to, say, sell the NKBM for 250 million when the country invested more than a billion euros in this bank. Only people who are without any responsibility and who do not answer to anyone can do so. The extension of the SDH Supervisory Board is therefore necessary in order to withdraw consent to such contested sales. Secondly, we have proposed that companies that have been listed as quick privatisation companies and have not yet been sold should be classified in accordance with the criteria of the management strategy. This means that companies such as Telekom Slovenije or Cinkarna Celje are classified as strategic companies, as this should be the case under all the criteria applicable to other companies. At present, however, SDH can sell these companies in full, without any commitments or criteria defined in the strategy, in accordance with that decision. Therefore, the second amendment proposed to bring Telekom and Cinkarna Celje and the remaining companies on the list of 15 which have not yet been sold into line with the criteria set out in the strategy is therefore necessary. Thirdly, we have also proposed that the government must give its mandatory consent to sell shares in strategic and important companies. We have proposed this because it is still a living memory of how the government avoided any decision to sell Telekom. At that time, we saw pingpong between SDH and the government, putting responsibility on each other. In order to make this responsibility clear and to say that the government and the SDH Assembly should give an opinion or decision on the most important sales, we have proposed this third amendment. All three amendments were not even considered because the coalition proposed our law as inappropriate for further consideration. Despite the fact that we have a coalition party like SD and Desus, who are also advocating for, say, SDH's control council to expand. On several occasions, on their part, we have also heard calls from other parties in Parliament to classify companies on the list of fifteen for quick sale in accordance with the management strategy. Nevertheless, our third attempt is to at least satisfy these minimum standards to at least minimally regulate the wild privatisation that is taking place is to fall into the water. I hope that the public will be able to figure out who is really trying to regulate privatisation, but who is just saying that when it's popular. In the United Left before the elections, we promised to stop the privatisation. Since we cannot stop it, at least we are working to get it to a minimum. But apparently the coalition doesn't have the will to do that either, so this law has fallen, which will not stop us in the United Left. We will continue to seek to put an end to privatisation and, above all, to the most controversial management practices of our companies when we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on the Slovenian State Holding, tabled by the United Left, provides for several amendments. The first amendment is to extend the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board to ten members. The five new members of the Supervisory Board would thus appoint trade unions, members of the Economic and Social Council. Given the political direction of the United Left, it is no surprise that this bill was tabled by the Members of this Group. In New Slovenia, of course, we strongly oppose this change. It is not the task of trade unions to oversee the management of state property in the supervisory council. We can already say that some unions in Slovenia may have extraordinary power, because without their consent a number of decisions of the Government and consequently the National Assembly are simply not possible. We propose to trade unions that they rather devote themselves to fulfilling their basic primary mission in a way that will benefit all countries. We can only imagine how the proposed amendment to the extension of the Slovenian National Holding Board would affect the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which would have an impact on the progress of the country's withdrawal from the economy. How weak is the power of the Slovenian state holding company, we have seen in the Luke Koper case. SDH has completely capitulated, has no longer been able to exercise its powers conferred on it by the citizens, which we are also in the final stage the owners of the assets managed for us by the Slovenian State Holding. The inclusion of trade unions in the supervisory council would certainly not help to ensure that the holding company manages better the tasks entrusted to it by its citizens; and by law. Obviously, the aim of the proposers is to slow down the already almost closed procedures of withdrawing the country from the economy. The Novelo provides for the introduction of a mandatory agreement between the Supervisory Board and the Government as a SDH assembly for the sale of state shares in companies. According to the proposal, SDH should classify the investments identified in the June 2013 decision on the withdrawal of investments in line with the criteria set out in the Investment Management Strategy. However, much has been said about the decision on the alienation of the Republic of Slovenia's investments in the previous week. More than that, Slovenian policy should address the question of how to finally open our economy and normalise the Slovenian business environment. It is a private initiative that can provide us with new jobs of quality so that people with their own work can realize their potentials, take care of themselves and take care of a wider society. We must give this initiative an opportunity and remove all obstacles that the country can remove. These are mainly bureaucracy and tax burdens. And it is in this direction that we must seek solutions in the National Assembly. In Novi Slovenija we will vote against the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Nice greeting, Vice President; colleagues and colleagues! The management of state property is a topic so to speak at every session of the National Assembly. We have repeatedly tried to amend the Slovenian State Holding Act, we have repeatedly tried to prove to you, a respected coalition, that things are not going well as they are at this moment. Not as bad as he is at the moment mastering state property. From the affair to the affair. Neither the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding is complete nor is the management of the Slovenian State Holding Board complete. And what does the coalition do? Nothing. He rejects the proposal; he does not make any criticism of his proposals, even if they come from coalition lines. And it's not enough, it's not enough for any coalition party to warn. It will be necessary to gather courage, and if it does not go into coalition, the opposition will accept the necessary changes. As for the specific law before us, I think that we have made a thorough debate on the committee, and we have found that some things are flawed. The addition of the Supervisory Board, which would be composed after a new union, is not regulated as it should be; among other things, the members of the Supervisory Board, appointed by the trade unions, would not or would not necessarily have to comply with the conditions set out in the law. It may not make sense to meet all the conditions listed at this time; however, at least any members, if so decided, would have to be added. There is certainly a flaw in the law, and it can be rectified during further procedures. As far as 15 companies are concerned, I hope that colleagues in the United Left at this meeting have also found that this Decision is no longer available. However, in our Group of Members, we absolutely support the proposal that all businesses – all from first to last – should be classified in accordance with the criteria and criteria that apply. That's not what's happening right now. Not just for Telekom and Cincarna, but for a few others. We appeal to the coalition to wrap up the sleeves and arrange this; otherwise, for the next or one of the next meetings, we will re-make a change to the law that would regulate this matter. As has already been said, the management of state assets, with national silver, can be heard more often, is at this moment really bad than ever. The purpose of the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding was to manage the entire, state-wide property that our country still has, in one place, so that state institutions do not negotiate or fight each other, how and what. I still think that was the right goal. But in the way that it happens at this point that you only deal with affairs, that it's from appointment to appointment, whether it's a supervisory council or an administration, it's all just worse; of course, it's not the right way. Therefore, in the end, once again appeal to the coalition to be aware of the catastrophic management of state assets and to take action.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The draft law re-emphasized the obligation of the consent of the National Council to make more investment available even after the adoption of the investment management strategy. We can certainly assess that the proposal for a law undermines the concept of independent governance of state property. The purpose of the whole Slovenian State Holding Act is to separate the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State and thus to prevent conflicts of interest, distortion of competition in markets and unequal treatment of companies. This is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This means that the National Assembly would once again decide on the investments that it has already decided in the capital investment management strategy, once again before the sale. In our view, the proposed provision of a law that the National Assembly would decide once again before the sale is pointless and contrary to the OECD guidelines. The essence of the OECD Guidelines is that SDH is independent and is not linked to the guidance of the State authorities. SDH must act independently and independently and therefore SDH itself must decide on the sale of investments after the adoption of the capital investment strategy. If the National Assembly decides in the strategy to sell the investment, it is irrelevant that it should once again take a decision after that decision. If I were to make one more decision, I would create additional political uncertainty about the sale of investments, which might eventually also lower the price of the investments sold. Such a solution is even contrary to the Company Act. SDH is a share company, which means that the management with the powers laid down by SDH has to obtain approval from the Supervisory Board before the sale. In accordance with the Company Act, however, the SDH administration may request a decision at the Assembly, which is the Government. Under the existing law, the National Assembly gives its consent to which investments are being sold. In the event of a final decision by the National Assembly on the sale of a particular buyer, it would introduce into the sale process the impact of policy on specific sales decisions. This would actually have a negative impact on the price of the sold company and, as a country, showed that we do not want to withdraw the policy from economic governance. This would show immature behaviour as a society and the loss of some necessary buyers for over-indebted companies. This would result in the loss of potential strategic partners that would have a positive impact on economic growth and employment. It should certainly be stressed that the control of SDH is carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Commission to prevent corruption. The sale of investments is decided on the SDH Supervisory Board, which means that a representative of the opposition in the form of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances is invited to attend these meetings. It should also be stressed that the conditions and objectives of making available the investments being sold are. set out in the annual management plan and based on the adopted strategy. The proposed law was written in such a way that it is contrary to the concept of policy separation from governance and contrary to the OECD guidelines on corporate governance. Due to the solutions mentioned in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we cannot support such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We did not support the proposal for amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act proposed by the United Left in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We didn't support him for a number of reasons. We are convinced that the guidelines and amendments proposed by the proposer do not go in the direction of improving the governance of state property, but that this change that has been proposed will somehow further involve policy in the management of state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that part of the policy, how it is now managed, is not appropriate and is not appropriate; this is also what the results are talking about. It is worrying that Slovenia is a state-owned holding company without permanent leadership and still has temporary leadership. Above all, we are concerned about the results of companies in the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the end of last week, we were able to read that our biggest insurance company, the Triglav Insurance Company, created almost 30% less profits than in the same period last year. And we are convinced that one of the reasons is that the coalition of the Modern Centre, Social Democrats and Desus is more concerned with the management of state property than with human resources. Staffing is not appropriate and we are convinced that it is primarily the partial personal interests of certain lobbying that want to have an impact on the management of state property. We are convinced that the National Assembly should be confronted as soon as possible with an updated and renewed strategy for the management of state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already noted the problems that the strategy is not perfect, but we have already warned about its adoption. Inadequate and poorly prepared strategy was also pointed out by the management of the Slovenian State Holding Company. We call on the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Social Democrats to ensure that a renewed and complementary strategy for the management of state property comes to the National Assembly as soon as possible. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is a key document where the opposition and the coalition need to participate. The state's assets are not owned by the current government, but the current government is responsible for managing this property. And it grieves us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that even under the government of Alenka Bratušek there have been, at least for us, substantial changes to this law; namely, the then coalition has decided to withdraw the opposition representative from the supervisory council. We are convinced that in the event of amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, the opposition should have its own representative with voting rights under the same conditions as the other members of the Supervisory Board in the Slovenian State Holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the proposal for a bill for payment services for budget users, another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of Mrs Marija Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present briefly the proposal for a bill on the provision of payment services to budgetary users, the main solution and the reasons and purpose for the adoption of this law. The bill was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption in order to provide this law and the regulations to be issued on the basis of it, an additional system of new services provided by the Public Payments Authority for budgetary users; and issues relating to the financial operations of budgetary users outside the single account system in the domestic and foreign banking environment. Compared to the law in force, the main solutions and the purpose of the proposal for a new law are as follows. Additional regulatory arrangements for the financial operations of the State, municipalities, budgetary users outside the single treasury account system are proposed to allow the opening of the transaction account of the Republic of Slovenia to the domestic business bank. This will be for the security reserves managed by the Slovenian Export and Development Bank on behalf of and on behalf of the country. It regulates the opening of transaction accounts with foreign banks for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence. In addition, the conditions or purposes of opening specific dedicated transaction accounts with Banka Slovenije are regulated. It allows the opening of so-called zero-state accounts in storage facilities with an appropriate network of businesses, thereby ensuring greater accessibility of cash payment services. The State, municipalities and budgetary users that have a basis in specific laws shall be able to open commercial accounts to investment service providers. In view of those exceptions relating to the financial operations of budgetary users through accounts in the banking environment, the draft law also regulates the obligations of the holders of these accounts and payment service providers, namely the reporting of data to the Public Procurement Board on the state of the assets and payment transactions made through these accounts. It is proposed to establish a central register of issued currencies with the Public Payments Authority in order to ensure the stability of public finances and to address the risks of borrowing or taking on public and municipal budgets. The draft law sets out new and coordinates existing services and tasks of the Public Payments Board. One of these is the collection of data on issued currencies. The draft law complements the provisions governing the management of the register of budgetary users, in particular the dissemination of the data set. The proposal for a law shall include an exception to the sending and receiving of e-invoices through a single entry-out point with the UJP. In order to protect sensitive personal data and the specificity of the exchange of medical records, all accounts and other accompanying accounting documents shall be excluded from the system of exchange of accounts, which shall be sent to the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and to insurance undertakings providing supplementary health insurance. The draft law complements the provisions governing the processing of personal data. In addition to existing sanctions, the bill also lays down sanctions for infringements of the obligation to issue coins and to open accounts outside the single account system. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that you adopt and confirm the proposal for a law after consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As it is said, the committee is at the 29th session of the 26th session. Ten. 2016 as a parent working body considered the Proposal for a Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to each article. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented in detail the main solutions and objectives of the proposed law governing the tasks, principles of operation and organisation of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. We have also just heard a detailed explanation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further drew attention to the comments made in the written opinion and explained that the amendments tabled addressed the shortcomings they had pointed out in the opinion. A representative of the Council of State also took part in the meeting, which said in explanation that the Commission of the Council of State was in favour of the bill. In the debate, a member of the Committee raised questions for which budgetary users are not required, the issue of control over this law, the relationship of this law to natural persons and the question of the payment policy of the Office of Public Payments and the organisation of this law. At the end of the discussion, the State Secretary and the Director-General of the Office replied to the question raised and provided additional clarifications. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has examined and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups and has also adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Once again, a nice welcome on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we find, together with the proposaler, who has submitted a new law, that the applicable law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users lays down a prohibition or restriction on the opening of transaction accounts outside the single treasury account system. However, practice in implementing these rules has shown that certain areas of this operation need to be regulated, which cannot be implemented within the single treasury account system itself, as is now the case. In particular, it is the transaction accounts for the management of security reserves, the use of foreign banks for defence and security purposes and the management of intangible securities in foreign capital markets. If we shrug, these are actions that have little impact on the lives of each individual and are important for the execution of the State’s tasks. In this way, the State and the municipalities will be able to manage securities held by them through commercial accounts to the providers of these services, and the possibility of using transaction accounts abroad, which are to a limited extent necessary for the conduct of military peace operations and diplomatic and consular activities, is also allowed and regulated. However, the area of export insurance, which is managed on behalf of and on behalf of the State by the SID Bank, is particularly important. These are Slovenian exporters who create the largest gross domestic product in Slovenia. The country is thus taking on a high risk that private capital without State support could not in fact take on, so that it is crucial to support exports and consequently to create jobs in Slovenia, as well as to continue to grow gross domestic product. The law also formally regulates the distribution and management of these funds, which will be accounted for in the single accounts of the Bank of Slovenia and also in the accounts of the SID bank which manages these funds on behalf of and on behalf of the State. Of course, there is also a need for supervision in this matter, and it is regulated by law. We believe that the solution in this law will allow for greater transparency over the issue of debt menus of budgetary users; therefore, it introduces a central register of estimates for greater transparency of the responsibility of budgetary users. It also introduces a transparent and clear regulation of the operation and management of funds in specific dedicated funds, such as the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It also provides clearer and uniform rules for all budgetary users, as well as the application of a solution to which, due to the transparency of public finances, the Court of Auditors has also referred for several years. For all these reasons, we will support the solutions provided for in this law. We will also give full support to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Weber. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users governs the maintenance and content of the register of budgetary users and the procedure for recording and deleting. The Register is public and available free of charge on the website of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. The draft law separates several types of accounts maintained by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments, namely, the Treasury Account of the State or the Treasury Account of the municipality, which is intended to manage the cash resources of a single treasury account system; secondly, the Sub-accounts of the public financial revenue to which the taxpayers pay the compulsory taxes and other public financial revenues; thirdly, the accounts of the budgetary users intended to provide payment services to the budgetary users. In addition to those accounts, the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia shall keep a record of the payment transactions and the state of the financial assets of the budgetary users in the special dedicated transaction accounts opened at the Bank of Slovenia, which are intended for the separate management of funds for the execution of a particular project, as well as accounts opened at banks and savings offices that are used exclusively for the cash operations of budgetary users. The proposal authorises the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to pay public payments for the performance of the tasks of the criminal authority, which decides on the offences and to impose the sanctions laid down in this Act. The proposal also foresees improving transparency in the issue of coins by establishing a central register of issued currencies with the Public Payments Authority. This also reduces the risks in the area of debt or commitment to state and municipal budgets. The bill also allows the opening of transaction accounts with foreign banks for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence to ensure conditions for the smooth performance of defence attachés, defence representatives from international organisations and other public defence officials. The funds collected by citizens in the national budget must be managed and spent in an efficient and transparent manner at national and local level. The bill follows these objectives. In Novi Slovenija, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on the provision of payment services to budget users.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Ms Urška Ban has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much again for your word. As already indicated in the title of this item on the agenda, we are considering a proposal for a law governing payment turnover for budgetary users. Due to the large volume of amendments to the already existing law, this law is being fully replaced by the current applicable law. In practice, the implementation of the law has shown that it is necessary to regulate individual areas of financial operations of budgetary users who deviate from the existing legal regime. The purpose of this Act is to fully regulate the new services provided to budgetary users by the Public Payments Authority and to bring the individual provisions of this Act into line with other sectoral rules. Thus, this law regulates, for the first time, the provision of payment services and other services for direct and indirect users of state and municipal budgets, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. Secondly, the register of budgetary users is regulated and, thirdly, the tasks and organisation of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. For budgetary users, payment services are provided by the Public Payments Authority, which acts as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Finance. Among the regular tasks of the administration, the most extensive and most difficult is the provision of payment services to budgetary users. In 2015, the Public Payments Authority received and processed more than 23 million payment instructions for domestic payment transactions and received and processed more than 60 thousand payment instructions for cross-border transactions and more than 16 thousand payment instructions for foreign payment transactions. Finally, if I summarise, it is more than technical solutions, which are very important for the budgetary users governing the services, tasks and organisation of the Public Payments Authority, which regulates the specificities relating to the management of accounts and the provision of payment services for budgetary users, regulates the register and the budgetary users procedure and the acquisition process and termination of the budgetary user status, the purpose and conditions and exceptions to the opening of transaction and commercial accounts and the use of payment services outside the treasury account system in the country and abroad. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a central register of menus issued by the budgetary users to be managed by the administration. In this way, control over the implementation of the menus will be established and the risk of liquidity of the budgetary users and the single treasury account system will be avoided. We expect that this will act as some kind of safeguard that will help to better manage money, especially local communities, where information on the use of coins is lacking. Finally, we estimate that the proposed solutions included in this law are a step in the right direction because the Office of Public Payments will be able to upgrade certain existing services and will take over the implementation of certain new services and tasks that need to be properly regulated. For this reason, we will support the proposal for a bill on the provision of payment services to budgetary users in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have the Public Payments Authority. You probably know or have heard of SDK. When it fell apart, or before it was otherwise organized, the Apple was created for public records, then Durs was created and then the Public Payments Authority was formed. And this administration still works today, and today the coalition gives it more and more parts, more and more important parts, to itself and so on. According to the latest data, there are about 170 employees, in nine regions or six regions in Slovenia. But who provides payment services in this country? Banks and other financial organisations. And the mail, and so on. But at the time of the collapse, the transformation of the SDK, the state envisioned another institution that would carry out payment traffic for municipalities if they wanted to, for local communities and for any other budgetary user. And that's what we have today. Today they will work a little more internationally and work and be part of the budget lunch. I say very responsibly that if we didn't have this organ at the time and if we didn't organise it, the world would be spinning just as it is today. And in Slovenia, payment traffic would also be carried out as is being done today, although without this institution. This would be done by banks, as in some capitalist countries and some other countries, and of course all this is done. Today we are talking about extending these powers to be a more effective country for this and so on. I do not think it will be any more effective, and we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this will not make it any more effective; it will be more expensive and cost more. As a result, the question is how much such an organisation costs to carry out payment operations for a country, municipalities, local communities; and nothing else. However, payment turnover is what the bank does for each individual, company and so on. We still have this, and I think we will have it, because this institution is increasingly empowered, more and more tasks are being given by this law, and you are giving it more tasks by this law; it is quite expensive. That's pretty expensive. I argue that even without this institution, the world and Slovenia would also be moving forward and it would not be completely wrong, even if it were not; and it would be done by some other banks, mail and so on. In fact, this institution was more or less meant for itself at the time, it is still today. The question is how much is actually needed or unnecessary; then it must also be considered whether it is more expensive, less expensive. We will not oppose this institution in the Slovenian Democratic Party; we will not support it, nor will we. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to briefly present the position of the Desus Group. The law proposes appropriate regulatory arrangements for the financial operations of the State, municipalities and individual budgetary users, including outside the EAGF system, i.e. a single trust account. This will, in our view, ensure greater cost-effectiveness and transparency in the use of budgetary resources and public financial flows carried out through the banking sector in our country as well as abroad. In addition, the bill allows the opening of transaction accounts with foreign business banks for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence to ensure conditions for the smooth performance of the tasks of defence attachés, defence representatives from international organisations and other public defence officials, who are equivalent to diplomats in the host countries or international organisations. The conditions for the financial operation of military representations abroad and of Slovenian contingents at international operations or international missions will also be provided. States, local communities and budgetary users will be able to open commercial accounts to investment service providers, through which transactions necessary for the purchase and sale of shares and other intangible securities will also be carried out in the context of asset management. It is proposed to establish a central register of issued currencies with the Public Payments Authority in order to ensure greater transparency and stability of public finances and to eliminate risks to public and municipal budgets. In order to accelerate e-business and make e-services accessible to public administrations and public service holders to a wider range of users, the bill allows for the inclusion in the online payment system of the Public Payments Authority of so-called external providers of such services which do not have the status of budgetary users; however, they must be included in a single contact point in the so-called VEM – all in one place. The purpose of the bill is to further systemically regulate the new services provided to budgetary users by the Public Payments Authority and to align the individual decisions of the law with other sectoral rules. For this reason, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Tuesday 22 in line with the meeting's timetable. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies, another defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Irena Sodin, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the main solutions contained in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the law transpose the 2014 European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, which corrects differences between the national provisions of the Member States regarding the duties and responsibilities of wage policy holders and sanctions. The rules concerning custodians have been almost unchanged since 1985. At that time, a directive was adopted aimed at creating a single market for collective investment firms to invest in transferable securities that would increase investment and business opportunities for the sector and investors. The national legislation regulates that area by means of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. This bill sets out in more detail the principles and rules governing the duty of custodians. This is necessary because of the rapid development of the investment environment for collective investment firms. They can invest in a wider set of financial instruments that are increasingly complex and can be issued and stored outside the European Union. The bill therefore regulates the transfer of custody by the custodian to the custodian, the conflict of interest and the responsibility of the chief custodian in the event of a partial transfer of custody related tasks. At the same time, the draft law regulates the remuneration policy of management companies in a similar way as it has already been regulated in other areas of the financial system. An important part of the bill is the reshaping of the provisions of the control, investigation and sanction system. The fines for some of the worst violations follow the fines laid down in the Directive. Freedom to provide services allows management companies to choose their country of establishment and thus the penal framework applicable to them. In order to prevent companies from moving to countries with less stringent sanctions, the European Union has unified the amount of fines. The Directive gives the competent authorities the power to impose financial penalties which are sufficiently high, effective, dissuasive and proportionate and which compensate for the expected benefits of behaviour which violate the requirements of this Directive. The application of the principle of proportionality, one of the leaders of criminal law, must take into account the characteristics of the entire European Union area and thus the size and actions of all European management companies. Therefore, following the principle of proportionality, a Slovenian management company cannot be given the same fine as, for example, a large company for the management of a Member State. I believe that this bill will significantly improve financial stability as well as investor protection, so I hope that you will support the bill. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Government proposes that a third review of the draft law be held at this meeting, since no amendments have been proposed for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ms Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Articles 42, 130, 131 and 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, prepared a report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies, secondly addressed by EPA 1449-VII. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 29th session, 26. Ten. 2016, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the main solutions and objectives of the proposed law arising from the transposition of Directive 2014/91/EU and establishing uniform rules on the custodian, the implementation of the system of remuneration by management companies and setting out the higher amounts of fines that the Securities Market Agency may impose on the management company, the manager of the alternative investment fund and the custodian. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further explained that the amendments tabled are largely addressing the shortcomings highlighted in the written opinion. However, further clarifications have been given to the article to which no amendments have been tabled. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Council of State, who explained in a supplementary explanation of the opinion of the Council of State that the Commission supports the proposal of the law for economy, crafts, tourism and finance. In the short debate, support was expressed for the proposed law, as the financial market situation is changing rapidly and legislative changes are needed. The bill is good, and it is also coordinated, as it has been heard by stakeholders. The need for more precise, more substantive explanations of the articles in the future preparation of legislative proposals was also expressed. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin, dear colleague and colleague! By means of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, we introduce the requirements of the European Directive, number 91, from 2014. The most important part of the bill proposal is the harmonisation of the rules concerning the fund's custodian. Each investment fund should, in accordance with the proposal, have one custodian who exercises general control over the assets of the investment fund. This seeks to ensure that the custodian has a review of all funds of the fund and that managers and investors have a single reference point to which they could turn. The custodian shall also be responsible in the event of a loss of a financial instrument in custody. The proposal provides for each investment fund to be entered in the Business Register of Slovenia, thus also obtaining its parent number. This would facilitate the distinction between management companies and funds. Certain restrictions which are not contained in the Directive shall be removed. The establishment of an accounting period for the calculation of the net asset value shall be suspended at specified dates of the month, as this may prevent the effective management of the mutual fund's assets. The proposal provides that the management company does not need to obtain the Agency's consent to amend the rules governing the mutual fund, to publish information on the modification of the rules governing the mutual fund and the holders of the investment coupon to provide notification of changes if changes to the rules governing the mutual fund are not related to the investment rules of the mutual fund or to indirect and indirect costs. In Novi Slovenija, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, a handful of Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! As the situation in the financial markets is changing rapidly, there is also a need to amend or amend Directive 2009/65/EC and appropriate solutions have also been found for the various national provisions concerning the duties and responsibilities of custodians, wage policy and sanctions. Directive 2009/65/EC was thus supplemented or amended by Directive 2014/91/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities (NPVPs) as regards the functions of the depositary, payment policy and sanctions. The law establishes systems of remuneration by management companies. This introduces an obligation to establish payment structures consistent with prudent and effective risk management for all employees and other persons who take decisions on the investments of the Fund or the sub-fund. The guaranteed variable payment shall be an exception for non-compliance with prudent risk management or performance-based payment principle. An important management company must have a remuneration commission, more detailed criteria for determining an important management company is defined by the Agency, the remuneration system should also be specified in the prospectus and the annual report of the Investment Fund. Higher amounts of fines may be fixed by the Agency to the management company, the manager of the alternative investment fund and the custodian. In particular, public disclosure of sanctions imposed on investors for their dissuasive effect and protection is regulated. Higher penalties have been imposed for defined infringements of the management company, the manager of alternative investment funds, custodians and others. The law, however, solves the issue of entering investment funds into the business register of Slovenia on the basis of the allocation of the investment fund's parent number and not the management company. It is also important that the assets of this investment fund are allocated to the bankruptcy weight of the company managing the investment fund, provided that it is supervised by the competent agency. These assets are excluded from the company’s assets for the purpose of paying off its ordinary creditors. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again a nice greeting to all my colleagues and colleagues, for the last time in this town! The Desus Group will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. Why? The proposal for a law takes into account the development of the investment fund market and the experience of market participants and supervisors. It eliminates what is also important, as well as the shortcomings and inconsistencies of the existing law. It sets out in more detail the principles and rules governing the duties of custodians. This is essential because of the rapid development of the investment environment for collective investment firms, as they can invest in a wider set of financial instruments that are increasingly complex and can also be issued and stored outside the European Union. The bill therefore regulates the transfer of custody by the custodian to the custodian, the conflict of interest and the responsibility of the chief custodian in the event of a partial transfer of custody related tasks. The remuneration policy of management companies shall be regulated in a similar manner to that already regulated in other areas of the financial system. An important part of the bill's proposal for us is the reshaping of the provisions of the control, investigation and sanctions system. The fines for some of the worst violations follow the fines laid down in the European Directive. In order to prevent companies from moving to countries with less stringent sanctions, the European Union has unified the amount of fines. The Directive gives the competent authorities the power to impose financial penalties which are sufficiently high, effective and, in particular, dissuasive, proportionate and compensate for the expected benefits of activities which violate the requirements of that Directive. In applying the principle of proportionality, one of the leaders of criminal law is to take into account the characteristics of the entire European Union area and thus the size and actions of all European management companies. This means that, following the principle of proportionality, for example, a Slovenian management company cannot be given the same fine as could be imposed, for example, by a large management company of a Member State. In the Desus Group, we advocate consistent regulation of the financial markets, as their deregulation has caused a crisis in the financial sector that has become a general economic crisis several times in the past. We are confident that the proposal for a law will have a significant impact on financial stability and investor protection, so we will unanimously support it in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you for your word and again welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the context of the debate on today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, I would like to point out in the introduction that the investment funds of the management company are those companies that enable normal capital markets to function. Properly regulated and well managed risk management policies may constitute a relatively safe and stable way of nobility of property. However, the fact is that there was historically little room for small investors in capital markets. Many of the rules that are and will continue to be established in this area are intended to protect them, as they are generally without information and market regulation; they can thus become the quick prey of greed and the interests of large capital after rapid profits. This is also evidenced by crises, especially the last crisis, where so-called professional or educated investors have somehow succumbed to the desire for quick profit, gambling with the money of other, small and large investors. In connection with the banks, they have caused a negative spiral from which the world has not recovered yet today, and we feel this to a great extent in Slovenia. Therefore, all regulation from the financial, economic crisis is aimed at controlling all funds and management companies, i.e. those in which only so-called trained investors can invest. The market is extremely complex and the side effects of trade can be very dangerous for people and for countries and the world as well; at times it can be devastating. The so-called Comprehensive Global Capital Market is a new phenomenon that began to emerge in us after independence and also within the European Union only became a reality in 1985. Since then, there have been uniform European rules that have been complementary and often exacerbated since the 2009 financial crisis; unfortunately, too late. It is also true that in Slovenia many practices have not developed in these markets. The market is still underdeveloped. We can talk about great ignorance, and it is even more important that we try to introduce and pass on all those practices that enable better control and thus protect professional and non-professional investors. Of course, this area will also have to be closely monitored in the future, as greedy tendencies never disappear and can quickly spill over into some kind of standard business practice of foreign asset managers. In doing so, we would particularly like to point out that this is why regulators are also in place to control the functioning of these markets. We also have the Securities Market Agency, which is established for this purpose and has the powers of both the supervisory and the criminal authorities. We expect that it will begin to exercise its powers to a far greater extent and, above all, to the opposite of what has happened so far. Only under these conditions will we be able to say that the rules that we are also introducing into our system are also becoming rules that are also respected by so-called speculators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Tuesday 22 in line with the meeting's timetable. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for the adoption of the Authentiological Explanations of the fourth paragraph 48. Member of the Immaterialised Securities Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 19 Members and Members with the first signed Luke Mesec. I give the text to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mesca, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to everyone again! We have proposed the adoption of an authentic explanation in order to protect more than 200,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who still have open registration accounts, and to close them under the new law at the end of the year, against the margins they are trying to impose on them. I would like to point out that these 200,000 people are not market speculators, but ordinary citizens, mostly pensioners, who have become shareholders in the certification or inheritance phase. In the United Left, we have already warned the Ministry of Finance in June that some stockbrokers are charging unjustifiablely high opening costs for commercial accounts. The September analysis of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia soon showed that it is not only individual cases, but that 55% of all providers systematically violate the restriction that we have written down in the law. To illustrate, the cheapest bidder, this is the state bank, has charged 24 cents to open and manage an account of EUR 50 per annum. The most expensive private provider was charged EUR 37 for the same service, i.e. to open and maintain an account of EUR 50. And that difference isn't random. The 24 cents charged by the bank follow a legal restriction, namely that the total value of the margin for opening and maintaining the account shall not exceed half a percentage of the value of the shares in the account. Half of 50 euros is 24 cents. On the other hand, we have a stock exchange house, which has broken the law so gravely that it has charged EUR 37 for the same service. This is proof that business entities can respect the legal restriction if they want it. It follows from the explanation of our authentic interpretation and also from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the correct interpretation of the cost limit is only one – the limit relates to the final annual cost of accounting management for its holder. Exchange intermediaries may not, and cannot, avoid this restriction by calling certain operations that are part of the account management a different name and writing new items into the account issued by the client. They did the following — the item Management and Accounting, as they named it and as defined in the law, was indeed valued as prescribed by law, but then they wrote new items, such as data management records, records of the management of this and that. Finally, they wrote five new items, avoiding them, bypassing the legal limit, and charging unjustifiablely high costs. As I have shown in the case before, this could have been in such extremes that a person with 50 euro shares who would like to open an account has been charged EUR 37 for opening and managing for one year. Authenticity would in principle not be necessary if the supervisory authority, in this case the Securities Market Agency, respected the law. However, this agency, as Members have been able to hear on the Committee, has clearly put itself on the side of the stock exchange houses. The Agency advocated that the law be read as it was read by the stock exchange houses, so that one item in the account could be limited, and then write new items that literally peel off the stockholder who is now forced to open the account by the new year. Moreover, the law was misinterpreted by the government. The Government has also adopted the same interpretation as the stock exchange houses and the Securities Market Agency. That is why we have insisted in the United Left that an authentic explanation be adopted, which we see not only as necessary, but as a necessity. This is the only way we can protect 200,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens from being deprived of certain stock exchange houses. I expect Members to do this today, and then at the initiative of the Government and the Securities Market Agency, which must ensure that this restriction is taken into account in practice from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again! As it is said, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 29th session and at its 29th and 28th sessions. Ten. 2016 as a parent working body has considered the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 48(4) of the Law on intangibleised securities submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Luke Moon. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the Legal and Legal Service were invited to attend the meeting and representatives of the Securities Market Agency were invited to continue the meeting. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the letter from the Association of Securities Exchange Members and the Association of Banks of Slovenia, the letter from the KDD, the letter from the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, the two letters from the Association of Consumers of Slovenia, the letters from the Agency for the Market in Securities and the letters from the Bank of Slovenia. The Committee was also presented with a proposal for an amendment to the Committee by Ambassador Luke Moon of 26. 10. which was later orally withdrawn as it was at the following meeting: 28. A new text for the amendment of the Committee by the same proposer has been submitted to the Committee. In the introduction, the content of the authentic interpretation and the reasons for it on behalf of the applicant were presented by Mr Luka Mesec. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In view of the purpose and legal effects of the authentic interpretation, two questions are always raised in the opinion of the service, namely the need to adopt authentic interpretations and the question of admissibility of accepting authentic interpretations in relation to the proposed content. In its opening remarks, the representative first explained the part relating to the need to adopt an authentic interpretation, since it is always considered to be a retroactive one, which is why it is also an extreme asset. For the assessment, the substance of the provision or whether the provision is sufficiently clear is essential. The service considered that the provision was clear and therefore did not need an authentic explanation. In the debate, the representative also said that the authentic explanation was admissible because she said the same thing as the law had already been adopted. She felt that the problem was mainly the enforcement of the law. The representative of the Government presented the Government's written opinion and said that the proposal for an authentic interpretation went beyond the interpretation of the law, saying that the free choice of the individual where the commercial account would open. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee considered that it was mainly a matter of monitoring whether or not the law was respected; they also drew attention to a letter from the Slovenian Consumers Association, which pointed out certain infringements. In the debate, the representative of the Slovenian Consumers' Union presented the findings of the association and said that it was more than 100,000 consumers, that the commissions for opening accounts were high and presented the data. He also mentioned the issue of unfair competition as he considered the costs to be disproportionate. Members and members of the Committee have further highlighted the opinion of the Securities Market Agency, which has a different view of the issue, since they believe that stock exchanges should charge the parties actual costs because they have to meet several requirements regarding their business, namely the security of customers' property and the quality of services. According to the Agency, the number of investment service providers is also declining, which does not help to revive the capital market. The representative of the Agency said that such cost-restricting decisions could affect the stability of the financial system, as there are already high requirements for stock-response houses to meet. He considered that the proposal to accept an authentic explanation was not appropriate. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the authentic interpretation of Article 48, paragraph 4, of the Intangible Securities Act should be adopted. The Committee then adopted, on the basis of Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed amendment to the Committee, and further adopted the decision to propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 48(4) of the Law on intangibleised securities, together with the proposed amendment to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 48, paragraph 4, of the Law on intangibleised securities. The proposal for text reads: "The provision of Article 48, paragraph 4, of the Law on intangible securities 1 on the limitation of the annual cost of keeping the account and the compensation for the maintenance of the account in the Member of the Central Depository Company shall be understood to refer to the ceiling of all the costs of managing the account for the natural person holding the account."The text of the authentic interpretation, as proposed, limits the costs of keeping the account and the maintenance costs of the accounts in that account. With regard to the restriction recognised by the authentic interpretation, we note that the applicant has not presented an assessment of the consequences that the adoption of the authentic interpretation will have for members of the Central Depository Company and for the Slovenian capital market. We note that an authentic interpretation, by stipulating that a member of a central depository company could only charge a certain amount for its service, could violate the principle of a free economic initiative. That interpretation would mean that only half a percentage of the value of non-materialised securities in an account, equivalent to one euro, can be charged to any customer who has unmaterialised securities in an account. That amount would probably not even reimburse a member the costs of sending a payment order; the customer would most likely pay the bank that would make the payment a higher fee as a member, with the customer being a one-year service and the bank service being a one-year one-year one-year one-year-old. Since that restriction is clearly disproportionate to the costs incurred by a member, it is already in the public domain to track the statements made by certain members so as not to open commercial accounts. The decision of the members not to open trading accounts shall encourage the creation of uncontrolled schemes that recruit securities holders in registry accounts. Such schemes are not controlled by the Securities Markets Agency and are not included in the investor claim guarantee system. However, since the authentic interpretation applies only to members of the Central Depository Company, it does not commit to these cost-limiting schemes. Thus, the consequences of the authentic interpretation will be exactly the opposite of the claims. Rather than allowing investors to benefit from an authentic explanation, it will reduce the level of security that investors receive. We also note that in the Republic of Slovenia there is a statutory law governing price regulation. This law is the Price Control Act, which provides that market participants freely formulate prices on the basis of supply and demand and other competing factors, which State authorities must take into account when determining price control measures. The law further states that public authorities may only use certain price control measures by law for reasons specified by law. Since the National Assembly is also a State authority, the applicant for an authentic explanation should at least explain why the applicable law governing price control is not appropriate. Such an explanation has not been given in the process of acceptance of the authentic interpretation so far. The authentic interpretation cannot also be supported by the indication that members of the Central Depository Company should coordinate their tariffs. If anyone has the facts justifying this statement, the facts must be forwarded to the Public Competition Agency. Harmonised conduct constitutes a violation of the law governing the prevention of restrictions on competition. And this law also lays down sanctions for this violation. In view of the above, the Government does not support the authentic interpretation of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, in its name mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Say good-bye to everyone again! Let me begin by saying that we will support the authentic explanation that we have on the table today in our Group of Members. The reason you did is because you could hear it right in front of me. The bill we adopted in this National Assembly, the amendment, which was adopted in this way with all the 100 % votes of those who were in the Chamber, sets the maximum amount that they can count on for the costs of these commercial accounts. That's what we wrote in the explanation. Today we hear that we are violating competition and that we have done everything wrong. At the time when we accepted this, at least I don't remember, no one warned us; because I believe we would have reacted then, and if we had to, we would have found a different solution then. We are too late to change the law because accounts need to be opened by the end of the year. The vast majority of those, I will now say, small people who have some small money left behind, privatisation procedures, if they don't do so, will simply nationalise it. Is that right? I don't know. If we do that, let's do it. However, I am concerned and have also told the Committee that, according to the opinion of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, the opinion of the Securities Market Agency will not, in fact, reach its objective. And that's what we need to worry about. And I don't know how, if not for an authentic explanation, we can sort things out by the end of the year. I hope that the unity we have shown in the vote on this amendment will also be demonstrated in the National Assembly today by an authentic explanation. Let those in Slovenia who are law enforcement start to realize that there is only one legislator in Slovenia; and this is the National Assembly. Not the government, not the Securities Market Agency, not the stock exchange house; but the National Assembly is the one that adopts the laws. Other institutions are responsible for the implementation of the laws. We are more than adopting a law to try to confirm with an authentic explanation what we thought when we adopted laws; unfortunately, we can no longer do in the National Assembly. I call, appeal to all institutions, if we do – I believe that – we will accept an authentic explanation today that they take it for a fact and do not dispute with it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Hello! I admit that we are also surprised that today's representative of the government, at this point, after the debate on the Committee and the decision, continues to insist on a kind of explanation, I will say. We are a little surprised that the agency which is the regulator in this area, which has emerged as the so-called so-called lawyer in this part of those who are supposed to have something out of it, here I mean not the citizens and the owners of the accounts, but all the others; and the government that says and claims that this is such an explanation. If that were the case, then I do not know why the Assembly of State, according to the Rules of Procedure, is accepting an explanation, for then this explanation given by the government or by the banks themselves or by the stock exchange houses is good enough. It is obvious that, at times, what has been said, the problem of so-called organisations, which, within all small shareholders, may even suit them today, but I say it does not suit them; in particular, it corresponds to those who have calculated themselves when adopting the law. It also points to the fact that one of the political options has tabled an amendment on the adoption of the law itself. At that time, we also supported this amendment precisely because of the lack of clarity. And since we supported him, I don't see any schizophrenic state that we're interpreting this 48th article any other way today. The fact is that the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that there is no need for an explanation, since it is already more or less clear from article itself what it is talking about. If so, and also adds that it is possible for the government, banks, agencies to interpret this in their own way and in their own way when it is not understood by the article itself. I can also attach particular importance to this opinion because certain banks understood this article differently; except for the Bank and the New Ljubljana Bank, which, interestingly, understood this article very clearly. Therefore, it is more than clear that some are looking with their own light. We will support this mandatory explanation in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, because we believe that if the Agency and the Government have not done their homework here, the National Assembly will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Last year, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Intangible Securities, which provides that registration accounts shall be abolished as from 1 January 2017. He also accepted the guardian proposed in the form of an amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to protect account holders, in particular small shareholders, from charging unduly high transfer costs and annual account management costs. This fuse is set out in Article 48 of the Act and determines the maximum cost of account management, at 0.5 % of the average value of intangible securities in the account. The explanation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal for the amendment regarding the purpose of the amendment was clear at the time. We have written down that the purpose of the amendment is to limit the top, total and final costs of keeping a security account for natural persons. We have also noted that the establishment of the ceiling for common management costs follows the principle of proportionate interference with the ownership right of securities holders, since the unregulated costs resulting from the transfer to securities holders can be raised in any way high, especially when it comes to the coordinated functioning of members of the central depository company. Despite the clear purpose of our amendment, this has proved to be the case in practice, which is why we have also proposed the amendment at the third reading of the law, namely that certain brokerage houses interpret and apply the law in contravention of the purpose of the law. The total final costs for commercial account holders have thus become disproportionately high. The stock exchange houses in the Account Management or Account Maintenance items take into account the legal constraints and charge the additional costs of the related services. According to the Slovenian Consumers Association, six out of ten trade account providers do not follow the limits laid down by the law, but charge consumers higher costs. It is also problematic that, in addition to certain stock brokering companies, the legal provision adopted does not respect and implement the government. The government has restricted itself to it only because this provision was adopted on the basis and the opposition's proposal. In view of the above, the Ministry of Change did not support the amendments. Let me remind you that the amendment was adopted at the third reading of the law in the National Assembly. The amendment was adopted and the law as such is valid, which means that it must also be respected. In view of the interpretation of the law by the Government and certain brokerage houses, which are totally contrary to the legislator's purpose, the Group of Members of the United Left introduced an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48(4). At the meeting of the home financial committee, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin, reiterated the position expressed by the former Minister of Finance. The response of the regulator should also be highlighted, this is the Securities Market Agency. In its letter, the proposal for an authentic interpretation, as well as the already adopted legal provision of Article 48, paragraph 4, was considered to be professionally unfounded, premature and therefore inappropriate. It has further disputed the purpose and reasons of the legislator for the legislative provision adopted and the proposal for an authentic interpretation, namely that it is not appropriate to limit the amount of costs charged for all tasks relating to the management and maintenance of the account for natural persons. The regulator's representatives even indicated that this could have an impact on the stability of the financial system. Instead of respecting and implementing the legislation adopted, the Securities Markets Agency took a public interest in the interests of the stock exchange companies at the meetings of the Finance Committee, which is, of course, unacceptable. Their fundamental task is to control the financial instruments market, and we would as a matter of course expect the respect and implementation of the laws adopted. Notwithstanding the clear purpose of the Slovenian Democratic Party as proposing amendments at the time of the adoption of this law last year, due to the limitation of the maximum costs of account management to 0.5% of the average value of securities in the account, there has been no compliance with the legislation adopted and in force. Although it was precisely because of the clarity of our mandate that an authentic interpretation might not be necessary, we have learned through the examination on the home committee, in particular the statements made by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the regulator of the Securities Market Agency, that the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 48 of the law that we are considering today is necessary, and that is why we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Retired in its name, Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	All in attendance, all in attendance! A good year ago, we adopted a bill in this Chamber that will end free registration accounts by the end of the year. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we had many concerns that the lifting of these accounts would not unduly burden the holders. Therefore, in the process of drafting the bill, we have adopted a number of solutions that have gone this way. We have added, for example, a part on the written notification of the holders of these accounts, since there are many holders who do not monitor the developments on the securities market; therefore it is necessary to inform them of the change in writing. The registration accounts were established solely for the purposes of the privatisation exercise in order to enable the distribution of intangible securities; however, the holder did not have to enter into a legal relationship with a member of the central depository company. Since these accounts have been kept free for a long time and some holders may have been exposed to potential costs that they never anticipated, in the Desus Group we found the solution to the written notification simple. At the meeting of the National Assembly, we also adopted an amendment to Article 48, which provided that the annual cost of keeping the account and the compensation for maintaining the account shall not exceed 0,5 % of the average value of the intangible securities in that account. And then what happened? There has been an irregular application of the legal provisions in practice. According to a survey by the Slovenian Consumers Association, six out of eleven suppliers do not respect the legal restriction. They charge costs that they should not have by law, and they are very creative when they are named. For example, the items are referred to in practice as: compensation for the provision of transactions, compensation for the maintenance of records, compensation for the maintenance of customer records and so on. At the meeting of the parent working body, the power in the government's responses and the ATVP was to sense a worrying subton that such creative solutions were not actually opposed. In the Desus Group, we would like to point out once again that there are a large number of people, many of whom have already retired, who have obtained some property with certificates. Let's ask ourselves, do we really want a pensioner with 50 euros worth of securities lying in a register account for an item named Identification and Review of a customer to pay EUR 11 for free so far?Oh, my God! I hope not! If I do a little caricature and use the words of my colleague Jurša, then when purchasing milk in addition to VAT, they could also charge a contribution to Mozart's CD, which is said to be rotated around by cows to give more milk. In conclusion, in the majority of the Desus Group, we do not agree with this interpretation of the law, because we believe that exploitation is taking place. We believe that, in view of the authentic interpretation heard, this article is necessary and will be supported by the majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you once again for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the context of the discussion on the authentic interpretation of Article 48 of the Law on intangible securities, the question is once again raised, or I would say, somehow, the rule that we do not know in any way how to complete Slovenian transitions in a way that does not lead to problems. In fact, Slovenia's most extensive experience with securities is in fact linked to certificates and consequently with this form of privatisation in Slovenia and the fact that most recipients have never benefited from these shares of property belonging to them, and the fact is that at the end of the day, some ten percent have benefited greatly if today we say that most of the hundreds of euros in their accounts that we are talking about today have those ten percent in their accounts over millions. And the fact that most people did not even trade these certificates, but generally traded them for a share in an authorized investment company or so-called pyds, of course, we can find out again that all of these have come to a sad conclusion. This is also one of the reasons why we can claim that this is an unfortunate transition in Slovenia in this area. The securities we are talking about today have been and are still in the majority of the accounts managed by the Clearing House and there were no specific problems. The question is increasingly raised or it points to the claim that, in fact, the interest of the stock exchange houses was mainly the one that ordered these accounts to be transferred as commercial accounts to the stock exchange houses. In doing so, we can also find that this legal solution, which has been introduced into the current law, is that if it does not transfer accounts to commercial accounts, then you can also have it deposited in court and if the value of securities is less than 100 euros, then no court fee is paid for it. But in this period until the adoption of the law until this point, this possibility has not been publicly discussed and here is one of the tasks that we believe the Government should actively introduce and also inform all account holders that this possibility exists and that it is not only and only possible to transfer the securities to commercial accounts. Given that we are increasingly under pressure to find that the stock exchange houses are only supposed to have all the costs, it is increasingly indicated and, of course, more and more trying to achieve that the regulation or restriction, which has been adopted by a very broad consensus in the National Assembly, that the costs of accounting intermediaries should not be more than half a percent of the securities – and the fact that this provision is also extremely clear after the finding of the Legislative and Legal Service – constantly and increasingly surprises us the activities that go in this direction to ease these costs. Finally, constitutional disputes are also announced because they want to remove these restrictions from the stock exchange houses and it is so much more up-to-date that we stress, however, that people will consider loading and leaving their securities to the courts rather than paying something that they will never actually get refunded. Thus, the state of the Slovenian transition also tries to bring about the fact that most people will pay a lot to those individuals who, of course, have become extremely rich in this process, and that is not right. However, with regard to the authentic explanation itself, I can say that we will most certainly support this explanation once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, of course, we will support our proposal. Once again, the adoption of an authentic interpretation would not be necessary if the Government and the Securities Market Agency interpreted the law for its purpose but did not. It was explained as interpreted by those 55 percent of brokers who violated the law. It is difficult to say how many people had to pay disproportionately high and actually illegal costs. There were probably at least 10,000 of them, and it is clear that there are at least 100,000 potential victims. The abolition of registration accounts is a typical case where public authorities service the profit interest of private entities at the expense of their inhabitants, i.e. contrary to public interests. We have warned about this since last September when the coalition passed this law. The closure of the register accounts was not inevitable; European standards of T2S for commercial accounts were only an excuse for the withdrawal that stockbrokers had wanted for a long time. The registration accounts were not intended for the trading of paper dealers, but in any case the trading account had to be opened. Therefore, T2S standards should be applied to commercial accounts and existing registry accounts could continue to exist smoothly. We also proposed this with the amendments last September, along with the unrelated. The only entities that benefit from this are stockbrokers. Intermediaries will earn in several ways by abolishing the register accounts; first, by charging the costs of opening and managing the account and transferring the funds, then by commissioning the sale of securities from the register accounts. For most citizens, the stock is sold immediately. At the same time, some intermediaries buy securities from uneducated shareholders, so they can buy them at low prices. In short, with the abolition of commercial accounts, the volume of securities sold increased by several hundred million in a few months. Instead of protecting a quarter of millions of registrants last autumn, the Government proposed to abolish them; instead of public interest, it exercised a private interest. In doing so, it did not include any consumer protectors in the law. All the cost limits were voted on the basis of amendments, the key amendment for a paragraph limiting costs, the Government even strongly opposed. We are therefore pleased in the United Left that the coalition Members have rebelled against the Government's instructions and will protect public interest. However, I cannot help but say that in these very days the Government has taken another measure which is contrary to public interest. It is, of course, the liberalisation of gas prices along highways and fast roads. As with the closure of registration accounts, it is a measure that is not necessary for the functioning of the system and is even harmful for consumers and the country. It will benefit only two companies which are in majority private ownership – namely Petrol and OMV, with the control share of the Republic of Austria in the OMV. In short, instead of protecting the welfare of citizens and the country itself, ministers service the profit interest of two large companies and even foreign countries. The Minister does not hide that this is only a second step towards the full liberalisation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. Full liberalisation, however, would lead to considerable fuel stimulation, as predicted by the Ministry of Finance and Umar. This is also the purpose of the measure: to enable traders to raise margins, as competition with lower margins and prices is already allowed. Empowerment would affect all citizens, but at the same time it would result in a budget shortfall, and we are talking in the extreme scenario about a 100 million-euro ranking per year. Government analysts have not predicted this, but based on experience with full liberalisation in Croatia and on experience in the liberalisation of diesel prices in Slovenia in 2003. We are therefore taking action today to regulate the prices charged by stockbrokers. You have voted against your government's opinion by the coalition MPs despite the severe pressure from the banks' interest associations and stockbrokers and the ATVP on the committee. This will protect up to 185 thousand remaining citizens from being robbed by stockbrokers. That is why I call on you to stop the liberalisation of gasoline together. As at the meeting of the committee, you have rejected the representatives of the ATVP, that they are trade brokers' lawyers, I expect you to reject the lobbyists of the Chamber of Commerce, representing Petrol and the OMV. The law, which will prevent fuel stimulation and ensure stable budget revenues, was tabled in the United Left last week. As with the closure of registration accounts, the liberalisation of petrol prices is also a long-standing project of oil traders. However, they have not even implemented this project under neoliberal Minister Šuštersič, so it is a shame that they succeed under a government that is declared left-handed. As it is known, we have already proposed in the United Left that registration accounts be maintained during the consideration of the Securities Act, but the amendment has not received sufficient support. We have been monitoring the issue, and in June, my colleague, Mesec, warned the Minister for Finance that the providers were in breach of the law and that people were injured. When the Union of Consumers published a supply analysis in September, it became clear that it was not individual cases, but a systematic violation of the law, which was not sanctioned by the ATVP. The Slovenian Consumer Union has played a very important role in its initiative, which should be played by the Government and the ATVP. Unfortunately, the ministers of this government have warned the Consumer Alliance that they do not take into account; on the contrary, they are trying to discredit it. The last in this row was Minister Restorationšek, who said, quote: "I would recommend to consumer organisations that they deal more with clairvoyance than they do in serious economic matters." I think any comment is superfluous. I only hope that this will be a sufficient signal for the coalition Members to protect 2 million people in this country from the greed of the two oligopolists and their lawyers in the government. Finally, I will define myself as to whether an authentic explanation is necessary. In normal circumstances, where the Government would interpret the laws in accordance with the rules of legal interpretation, this would probably not be necessary, but the government had already put itself on the side of the stockbrokers last year. She suggested the cancellation of registration accounts, although it could be avoided. She sent a law to the procedure, which did not contain a single security guard for the citizens. When a colleague of the Moon pointed out the violations of the laws in June that day, he replied: "The Ministry of Amendments of the Opposition did not support it, so the Ministry is constrained by the content and specificity of Article 48 of the UNHR-1." I guess I don't have to explain that the government has a duty to enforce the laws in force and that it can't be shielded from them. If she considered that the article was inconsistent, she should have proposed an amendment. As you know, on 20 October, the Government introduced the amendment of the Securities Act into the procedure, but did not propose amendments to Article 48. Also in addressing our proposal for an authentic explanation, the government has remained on the side of the stockbrokers rather than protecting citizens. To illustrate the statement made by Secretary of State Irene Sodin at the meeting of the Committee on 26 October: "As the bill-maker said, each has a free choice of where to open the account, so they can open accounts to a state bank that charges in accordance with the law." If I simplify this statement, it is her view that the State does not have to sanction the violation of the law because it will only sanction the free market itself. In short, if someone cheats on you, you can go to another, a fairer bidder next time. So since the government has put itself on the side of capital, accepting an authentic explanation is not only necessary, but essential. In particular because the Securities Markets Agency, which is supposed to be an independent body, has also been put on the side of intermediaries. Therefore, in the United Left, we will continue to pay particular attention to the follow-up of the ATVP. The management of the ATVP insisted to the end that it had the right to interpret the law. Therefore, the question is whether the ATVP will sanction the offenders who it has been defending until the end, in particular because there are no specific penalties in the law for infringements of this Article. That is why I call on the government to do everything possible to ensure that the ATVP respects the law. We also demand that an effective procedure be ensured to ensure that citizens' intermediaries reimburse unjustified costs. The Ministry's recent statements give some hope that the Ministry will respect the legislator's will. In its reply to the Journal, the Ministry advised registry account holders that, while the authentic interpretation is valid, it is still more practical for people to wait by opening new accounts. Finally, I would warn the government and the coalition that this case has shown the bias of the ATVP. For us, the leadership appointed by this coalition last March is no longer credible. My colleague Möderndorfer said at a board meeting one of the assistant directors that he would, I quote, "follow with great interest where your next job will be". I hope that the Government will also consider whether the ATVP can be led by people who, instead of public interest, represent the interests of market intermediaries and who take the right to interpret legislation in their own way. But I think the ATVP problem is systemic. The ATVP shall be financed by fees and fees paid by participants in the financial instruments market and by other revenue generated by their operations. In short, the ATVP is financed by banks and stockbrokers to be monitored by the ATVP. The amount of fees and refunds is regulated by the Government and the amount of other revenues is not. The ATVP is therefore financially dependent on the companies it supervises and is not linked to any instructions from democratic authorities. In short, such so-called overseers should not be in our system. And let me repeat: adoption of an authentic explanation is not only necessary, but necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the New Slovenia Group! The Intangible Securities Act, adopted on 25 September last year by the National Assembly, required citizens to transfer securities from central depository company accounts to trading accounts with other service providers. This, of course, meant new unforeseen costs for many to manage and manage securities accounts. Many citizens have therefore been somewhat disheartened. The law intervened in the current situation and also in the expectations of citizens who had not been able to expect to open market accounts prior to that, where their securities would be kept. Therefore, it is reasonable to limit the costs incurred by holding accounts. Article 48 of the Act provides for a cost limit of half a percent of the average value of intangible securities in this account. While Article 48 seems clear, it is regrettable that there has been a misunderstanding in the application of the law on the extent of the limitation of costs. The question raised in the application of the law is, therefore, what costs fall within a half-centile limit. In view of the legislator's intention, it is certain that all the costs associated with the invoice fall within the limit, which is the only way to ensure that these securities holders who have been forced to transfer to commercial accounts are secured by a restriction. A different understanding of this provision would make it possible to play the legislator's purpose too much. If we want to maintain the functioning of an integrated fuse, accepting an authentic explanation is certainly the right way to do so. This would make it clear once and for all how the provision of Article 48 of the Law should be interpreted. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 48(4) of the Law on intangibleised securities, since we were co-signers of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, the authentic text, and the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which fully replaces the proposed text. Before I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, let me mention that Mr Jani Möderndorfer and the mag are preparing for him. Dušan Verbich. Mr. Moon, the word is yours, please, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. First of all, I would like to say that we are pleased to be proposing that, obviously, everyone in this Chamber understands how this article explains what is written in this article. Unfortunately, with the exception of the government. Here, however, I have to repeat my colleague Möderndorfer's words, and we are also surprised that, after all that we heard on the committee after the demonstration that the representatives of the Securities Market Agency had where they turned out to be a stock exchange union, but not as their supervisor, the government is still rounding up the interpretations that the stock exchange houses have and that are also made by the Securities Market Agency. This leadership of the Securities Market Agency, as Violet said before me, is no longer appropriate for the performance of this function, since it has simply looked at, in this case, stockbrokers who have explicitly violated the law through all their fingers and not even the slightest interest to sanction or to warn them that they are in breach of the law. No, they came to the committee to present the problems, the life pains of these stockbrokers, presented them as poor people and told us Members that we must be aware that they will obviously all fail in order, that the European financial system will fail, as a colleague of Shirtzelj said, should it accidentally do what is already stated in the law. I have to protest against this once again, and I repeat that I cannot believe that the Government, after all, still insists on covering the back of the Securities Market Agency and stock exchange houses. I will now briefly answer the questions or concerns expressed by Secretary Irena Sodin in the position of the Government. Firstly, it says that the applicant has not submitted an assessment of the consequences that the adoption of the authentic interpretation would have for the members of the central depository company. Look, we're not bringing anything new into the marriage here. We have not come with a new law, not with a new law, not with an amendment; all we do is explain what the law already says. And what the law already says was adopted in this Chamber by an absolute majority; it is said that 73 Members and Members who were present at the meeting voted in favour of such an article, thus limiting the annual cost of keeping accounts to 0.5 per cent of what the person who wants to open this account has in the account. So if that's 50 euros, that's 25 cents. We accepted that unanimously. 73 Members and Members, regardless of their party affiliation, political colour, ideological orientation, this article has been supported and this article is now in law. So I don't know why we should be doing any kind of philosophies here. As the Government, we should defend what is said in this law, not that you are essentially repeating the same mistake that already started by Minister Marble when he answered my question that it was an opposition proposal and that the Government is therefore not responsible for its interpretation and will not worry that this part of the law proposed by the opposition is being applied and taken into account. We just can't work this way. The government is obliged to respect, like all citizens and citizens of this country, all laws, regardless of who proposed them. But let's just say what it would look like to say I'm a United Left, but I don't have to follow the legislation that SMC has drawn up because I don't agree with it. However, laws are passed and laws must be taken into account; even if you are a ministry, even more so should be an example to all citizens and even more clearly follow the letters of the laws. Not that the minister says he won't comply with any of the laws because it was an opposition proposal. Please! Today, we listen to something similar. Here we are hearing about how stockbrokers now suffer, how they will all fail, how the law is lifeless, how they cannot afford such costs as are prescribed in the law to ensure their business, how people will now go to the charlatans, because an authentic explanation will be adopted and so on. Look, the law was passed. If you say it's a non-life solution, suggest a change of law. However, you cannot object to the interpretation of this law, which is the only possible – both the Legal and Legal Service and any lawyer who will tell you that this article of the law cannot be read differently than we propose in an authentic explanation. Really, there's no way I can understand that you're still saying that. We've been having these debates for six months or more, and you're still saying the same thing. Second thing. You're saying that a stockbroker's house with such a restriction won't even cover the costs of sending the checkers. See, 45 per cent of the providers of this service on the market take account of the constraints, so we see no reason why not the remaining 55 per cent. If this other half decides that this business is not worth it to her, she won't do it. People still have a choice of bidders, but they respect the legal restrictions. And then you say that if we accept this limit, people will go to the charlatans. I'll tell you who has taken this restriction into account so far. The restrictions were taken into account by banks such as NLB, SKB, KBS and DBS. Are these banks charlatans? If people go to them now, instead of, say, a stockbroker's house, or after your interpretation, which we understand from the point of view, do people go to the charlatans? I don't know. I mean, not least they're state-owned, so if you feel like they're charlatans, just act. Next thing. You're saying that what we're proposing is contrary to the Price Control Act. When this amendment was proposed, the Government should point out such things. It is now adopted and must be taken into account. Otherwise, the Price Control Act clearly states that this law is without prejudice to other laws governing the functioning of markets or the protection of consumer rights or other similar matters. And what we are talking about here is the protection of consumer rights. It is about protecting 200,000 of our citizens and citizens who will have to open trade accounts by the new year, against diversion and have not been protected until now because you have allowed them on the government via the ATVP to explicitly violate the law. It just says there that they can't have more than 0.5 percent in the annual account management account and you just let them write 10 new items where they come into abnormal amounts. Here I will tell you another example where it is clear that these explanations that those costs were justified are simply not sustainable. Look, we've got an Illyrica case that's after the 19th Diary's report. 11. said it would not open commercial accounts if the value on them was less than €800. Here we can show that, including Illyrica, all those who have broken the law have so far charged costs significantly higher than what would cover their basic operating costs. 0.5% of 800 euros is 4 euros a year. Do you know how much Illyric has charged for the same service so far? Twenty-six euros! So now she's going to go to 4 euros, but before that she was charging 26 and not the government or the ATVP didn't even blink to alert them to what the law says. These were only the costs of keeping accounts. In doing so, they would charge them another 12 euros to open the account. If it's not a party party, then I don't even know what it is. I can't believe it, once again, but the government simply says that everything they do is admissible, but the argument is that it was an opposition proposal and you won't take it into account because you didn't give it. I hope to get some clarification on such interpretations, even though it is now the former minister. But I have two questions for the end. The first is: How will you now ensure respect for the authentic interpretation or lay down the law in practice? Since the problem is that, for the first time, the ATVP is not bound by the Government's instructions, it has in the past been very arbitrary in interpreting the law and contrary to the legislator's intention, as I have already replied. Secondly, in the law itself proposed by the current government, there are no criminal provisions relating to violations of this article of the law. In this regard, I would like to ask for a comprehensive answer. The second question is: How will you ensure that stockbrokers who have so far charged unjustifiably high costs in contravention of the law will reimburse those who have already opened a commercial account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In particular, I would only discuss in the part where someone is playing with how they understand a thing. If someone doesn't understand something for the first time, someone will warn him that it's not anyone, but even the legislator who's the only one who's got the authority to interpret the law. Otherwise, it would be very nice for the legislator to ask what he meant by that, if he really meant it, if he did not understand it before he acted or did not act, if that was the result of his action. Secondly, although you will have a practical look at this issue for the fourth time: in the Committee itself on the amendment proposal, in the plenary session, when we adopted the law, the third time we had a mandatory interpretation on the committee and today the fourth time in the National Assembly, no one in the Republic of Slovenia, no Government or the Agency can afford to say that this is not understandable. And in normal democratic countries, at the very least, the director of AVTP would simply give up because he does not agree with this policy if he really thinks it is still the same as he advocated or all those who are, of course, subordinate to it and today explain it. However, I would like to propose to the Government: today, when an explanation is adopted that you will start tomorrow a campaign to inform citizens and citizens, what is really true and what this law is talking about. And it's the end of what you wanted, but only what's in marriage. And that's your job, and that's uncompromising. At least what it is, you have an office set up for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Mag. Verbich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, who are here today, a very nice greeting! I will allow myself to give my own opinion and position as far as this is concerned. The fact is, because I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to try to jump off the field a little bit, which is what was said by the honourable Member of the United Left, it is necessary to make it clear. The Securities Market Agency shall be the body within the composition of the State Administration. Salaries are included in the system of public servants. Any revenue generated by them shall be income from the title of the infringement proceedings and in accordance with the ZUP and all such legislation. It means that the Securities Market Agency is a supervisor, a regulator and in this context also carries out procedures and it is logical that it also imposes sanctions in the form of money. I am not a supporter of the ATVP, but I believe that sometimes there is a need to have a bit of expertise in the political debate. Authenticity to this law. I was the only one on the parent board, and even now, I know that I voted against it to protect the government, the Securities Market Agency, but I simply stood in the position that I gave in some way in the explanation. If we remember a good year ago when the opposition party of the SDS tabled the amendment to Article 48, I can say that I am still of the same opinion today that I was glad to have decided on such an amendment, but if we are to be found, this kind of amendment, which is justified on two sides, is completely clear and clear to me what market participants must do in relation to this Article 48. In this debate and also in the home committee, I miss something – none of the debaters have touched on one point: we are talking about registration accounts, which we are closing in accordance with the adoption of the European Union law and directive, and most of the debaters are talking about trade accounts. That's an essential difference. It means that, personally, I am in the position that Article 48, which was tabled by the SDS, speaks quite clearly and clearly about what market participants must do. Next thing I know why I was against it. The position of the Legal and Legislative Service, in writing, also made it very clear on the home committee, where the speeches were made, that there was no need for an authentic explanation. And I have followed – given that many Members, especially Members of Parliament, have often made it clear to me that I am not following the Rule of Law. I follow when I think it's real weight. The next thing that matters to me about this matter is that proceedings have already been initiated before the Constitutional Court in this regard and it is perfectly logical for me as a Member to wait with interest for the position of the Constitutional Court to decide whether such a provision of law is consistent. In conclusion, I'm going to make a very interesting point. Who benefits from an authentic explanation? Personally, I am of the view that it is particularly beneficial for alternative providers of certain organisations and associations, and I do not want to harm anyone here on a free economic initiative. But it is interesting if you look at the website of the Slovenian Consumers Association, who already advertises offers for transactions related to the closure of registration accounts. This story is more or less closed for me. And I conclude in this part – one is the political debate. I also do not agree with all the debaters that we are talking in the National Assembly as a legislative body about whether someone is suitable for a member of the administration or not. I think it's decidedly said here that it has a political impact on staffing. Have we not said many times in this congregation that we will not talk about this? This is a typical example of the impact on staffing. Other institutions are for that. To conclude, personally, it is a modest opinion that, of course, authentic explanations are yes, but in this case, in addition to political prejudice or debate, a bit of expertise should also be included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you, too. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. We give the floor first to the Government Secretary of State Irene Sodin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I didn't use the word charlatan in my performance. I mentioned schemes, uncontrolled schemes that recruit securities holders in register accounts. This is exactly what Member Verbich said before me. As it is said, these schemes cannot be controlled by the Securities Market Agency, despite the annual cost of €9 being charged in these accounts. So this is equivalent to EUR 000 for the transfer to the register accounts of a natural person, if the amount is half a percent. As far as the jurisdiction and control of the stock exchange houses are concerned, the matter is clear. Of course, this is the job of the Securities Market Agency, which I believe will also fulfil its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Luka Moon, representative of the proposer, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you for saying that again. First, answer your colleague Verbic about the ATVP and the fact that he is part of the state administration. It's true what Violet warned about, but it's two things. The first is that it is not under democratic control, and the second is that there is a financial dependence of this agency on those which the Agency is supposed to control, namely, banks and brokerage houses. And that's the problem. Banks and stock exchanges are paying for this agency, which is supposed to be their supervisor. And demonstrations from where it leads, we saw on the committee where the agency performed not as their supervisor, but as their advocate. She acted like their union: they're really breaking the law, but, you know, you have to understand, if you don't break it, you wouldn't survive. In this sense, their argument went well, or even the government went here, as Secretary Sodin said that if people do not like the costs of those who violate the law, they can go to open accounts to the state bank, which respects the law. I literally quoted this last part. You said they could go open an account with the state bank, but the law respects it. So that we all knew here, so the government, the ministry, the Securities Market Agency, it was clear to everyone that the law was being broken and they did not act. That's my next answer. We also agree that the amendment tabled by the SDS is clear enough. We all knew what we were voting for, the debate was held, it was clear what the consequences would be. And if someone did not want such an entry into a marriage at the time, he should point out this when the law was adopted. If we were to be sure that half a percent was too small, we would, I don't know, table an amendment and say we want two percent. It was not a problem at the time, but now the law is written as it is, and it must be respected, because otherwise we will leave the stock exchange houses – I mean, today even if we let go of this explanation now, which I think we will not – but if we let go, we would give them a signal that there is no ceiling here anymore. Well, they can impose the costs they want, and this restriction in the law can overwhelm them as they want. That'll be the signal we'll give. I mean, this is also in some way a precedent for other regulated prices, because the value of the paper or this is precisely what we are regulating today is not the only price that will be regulated by the state. We have, say, regulated gas prices. And imagine that the gas stations would read the law as they read the stock exchange houses. This would mean that someone comes to the gas station and the gas service says, yes, it is true that our margin on petrol is limited, that the petrol should not be more expensive, say, than 1.2 euros, but we have the cost of employees here, and we have maintenance costs, and we have video surveillance costs, and we have the cost of building this facility. And I'd say, well, now we're gonna charge you, because we still have this extra cost, for a litre of petrol of 4 euros. About this way, the law was interpreted by the stock exchange houses, and this violation they are committing is in this rank. Therefore, an authentic explanation is needed to prevent this from happening in the future. Then there may be only a brief answer as to the necessity of abolishing the registration accounts, which my colleague Verbic pointed out. You said here that we are talking about registration accounts that are closed in accordance with the European Directive, not commercial accounts. First of all, the registration accounts could stay. That wasn't inevitable. At the same time, in the United Left, we also suggested that registration accounts should not simply be abolished because the people who have the assets charged in these accounts do not trade with the property. This property is only there and it rests, and so it has been twenty-five years and no one has complained about it. But in the government, you decided to stop it, even though it wasn't part of the T2S directive. The T2S Directive had an impact on commercial accounts, but the registration accounts could be maintained and there would be no problem. And why are we discussing trade accounts today? Because this law forces all those who have so far had property in register accounts to open a store. That's why we're talking about this! Then, regarding the proceedings before the Constitutional Court. I just said what's in the law that it's our law or that it's an authentic explanation for consumer rights and I think the Constitutional Court here will say if there's any problem. [[…]] But I don't see it, or it won't come out of an authentic explanation, because the authentic explanation doesn't -- and I repeat it -- nothing new in the law, just says what it says. Finally, who benefits from an authentic explanation. All those 200 grand that are gonna have to open trading accounts by the new year. If the problem pointed out by the ministry is pertinent, it is said that people will open accounts in unsupervised schemes that are now recruiting these registry account owners, and I also call on the Government to start an information campaign tomorrow, where the opening of the account is safe and where it is not. In view of the fact that we have suppliers, among them state-owned banks, which have so far adhered to the restrictions, we do not see the problem why we should not simply make a list of those providers who adhere to the restrictions, or all those who are willing to stick to the restriction, and say that opening them is safe. This can be done after all in cooperation with the Union of Consumers, since the Union of Consumers of Slovenia is for helping consumers when necessary, including through awareness-raising and other means of protecting their rights. But once again, I'd like to ask the government for both the answers I've asked her to. So, answer the question: How will you ensure respect for the law or authentic interpretation in practice? Secondly: How will you ensure that stockbrokers return money to citizens who have already opened trading accounts and have been charged too much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Okay. Before applying, I would like to point out that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer of the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Luke Mesec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The time for discussion is five minutes. Ms Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sure that the Member of the Moon knows what the power of the Government is in this case and that the supervision of the operation of the stock exchange houses is not within the power of the Government; as previously said, this is the Securities Market Agency. As regards the assessment of whether an individual has paid too much to open a transfer to a registry account, it is his instrument that he has that he can go to court and claim the costs back. The government certainly does not have the authority to intervene in this and, as you have discussed, what you have said to me is that I also say that the providers working in accordance with the interpretation of Article 48 are, in your own implementation, twice mentioned that individuals can still go to banks that do so in accordance with the interpretation you are accepting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	This concludes the debate. On the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation and an amendment of the parent’s working body to the text of the authentic interpretation, we will decide on Tuesday, 22 in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 11. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a final account. Ms Maria Janc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before you, the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, which the Government, together with the final report of the Court of Auditors and the explanations for not taking into account the individual proposals of the revision of the auditor, submits to the National Assembly for adoption. The 2015 budget balance is the last country budget adopted for 2015 and is used as a basis for clarifying the deviations of realised revenue and expenditure. The main features arising from the 2015 Final Account proposal are as follows. A balance sheet – State budget revenues were realised at the end of 2015 at EUR 8.52 billion and were lower by EUR 41.2 million than planned in the 2015 budget rebalancing, which represents a 99.5% realisation. The higher income from the advance on income from employment income is due to higher wage growth than forecast. Higher revenue from the Tax on the income of legal persons is mainly due to a higher positive calculation for the following year. EU funds received amounted to EUR 878.7 million, representing 82% of the planned revenue under this heading. However, the European Cohesion Policy Recovery Report 2007-2013 shows that Slovenia has achieved the target set since it has already recovered 95 per cent of spending rights and will receive the remaining 5 per cent when it receives final reports from Brussels and is expected to do so in early 2018. 9.79 billion euro expenditure was realised on the expenditure side, which is 149 million euro less than planned. Regarding the payment of funds to the EU budget in 2015, the Republic of Slovenia has invested poor EUR 433 million in the EU budget. The increase in payments is due to the higher projected commitment from Traditional own resources and a greater call to the EU budget for gross domestic product. However, the net beneficiary of the EU was still €446 million, which is 1.2 per cent of gross domestic product. The budget deficit of the state budget was thus 1,277 billion euros in 2015, or 3.3 percent of GDP, and is 808 million lower than planned. B balance sheet. The expenditure of the Financial Claims and Investment Account was realised at EUR 233 million, with a total of EUR 118 million being realised for the purpose of increasing capital investment. Funding account. In line with the 2015 funding programme, the Republic of Slovenia committed €3.6 billion in total, which was sufficient to finance the needs of the current year's budget and to pre-finance the work of the 2016 budget requirements. Net indebtedness was achieved at 1.2 billion euros, which is 404 million euros lower than planned. The consolidated balance sheet of the state and municipalities is an integral part of the final budget account proposed by the Government to inform the National Assembly every two years. Balance sheet amount of state and municipality assets at 31. 12. 2015 amounts to 48.16 billion euros and according to the state shown at 31. 12. In 2014, it increased by 2.46 billion euros in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. Mr. Andre Shirtz to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At its 36th regular meeting on 27 October this year, the Commission considered as its parent working body the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, which was forwarded by the Government under Article 5 of the Public Finance Act to the National Assembly for adoption. In its introduction, the Secretary of State drew attention first to the fact that the budget for 2015 was amended with a balance sheet as early as 2015, in February. Therefore, comparisons of implementation to the rebalancing budget have also been made. She provided data from Balance A, Balance B and Balance C. At the meeting, a representative of the Ministry of Public Administration presented a salary analysis in the public sector for 2015. The first Deputy President of the Court of Auditors said that, following a revision of the proposal for a final account, they had given an opinion with reservation to the General Part of the Final Account and also on the correctness of its execution. He estimated that the findings were very similar to those of previous years and that the errors were similar. With regard to the general part of the final account, he drew attention to some cases of books where, according to them, revenue and expenditure were not properly reported. According to their calculations, expenditure in the income and expenditure balance should be higher by 0.7 per cent and revenue by 0.01 per cent. Expenditure in the Financial Claims and Investment Account is overestimated by 20.2 per cent and income in the same balance sheet is undervalued by 2.1 per cent. Debt in the Funding Account is undervalued by 0.2 per cent – repayments and payments are undervalued by 0.4 per cent and benefits by 0.2 per cent. With regard to the correctness of the implementation of the budget, it is explained that the opinion has been given with reservation due to numerous violations of the laws which are repeated year after year. In my debate, I would also point out the fact that the Court of Auditors has been amending the Public Finance Act since 2011 and has not yet taken account of the revisions made by the Court of Auditors. As a result, the same errors occur year after year. For the fifth time this year, the Court of Auditors has requested the same or similar corrections as the Government has rejected again. In the view of the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors, the solution would only be to reject the proposal of the accounts in accordance with Article 97, paragraph 6, of the Law on Public Finance and to impose on the Government which corrections should be taken into account in accordance with the requirements of the Court of Auditors. In the debate, there were many questions and discussions about why the Government did not take account of the reasons for the auditor's corrections and what could be done to take this into account. Members of the Commission cautioned that the same errors have been repeated for several years. The Court of Auditors warns, demands corrections, but nothing happens. Some pointed out that the provisions of the Public Finance Act, which required corrections by the Court of Auditors, were inoperable and could not be implemented. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance also warned that the case for back in accounting could not be rectified. In addition, Commission members have pointed out that for several years we have also been talking about the adoption of a new or amendments to the current Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act, which could also adequately address this problem. They therefore asked when these legislative changes could be expected. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that some improvements have only been made in recent years. Regarding the auditors' corrections, however, it was said that in other countries such corrections are taken into account, not backward. After the discussion was concluded, the President of this Commission proposed that the Commission should adopt certain decisions on corrections which the Commission had not adopted. However, it adopted a decision which reads as follows: The Commission proposes to the National Assembly for the supervision of public finances to adopt, after consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, state secretary with co-workers. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 offers a final view of the implementation of the budget. In the beginning, let me focus very briefly on some of the key areas of this final budget account for 2015. The implementation of the budget policy in the past year was based mainly on the budget rebalancing, which was adopted in February 2015 and entered into force on 1 March 2015. The budget rebalancing was prepared with more conservative estimates of economic growth, with economic growth at budget forecasts of 0.3% below actually realised. The main objective of the budget rebalancing, which is also the result of today's final account for 2015, was to pursue the objective of reducing the country's budget deficit below three per cent, allowing Slovenia to exit from the surplus deficit process. This goal has been successfully achieved, so Slovenia has successfully reduced the deficit of the sector of the country, which was estimated at EUR 1 billion 31 million or 2.7 per cent of GDP in 2015. The monitoring of deficit reduction commitments has helped to restore Slovenia's international credibility, thereby improving its country's credit ratings and reducing the country's debt costs and consequently banks, economies and citizens. At this point, it is still worth stressing the successful drawdown of funds from the 2007-2013 programming period, with a poor EUR 878 million of revenue being realised from this heading. All efforts in 2015 focused on the promotion, implementation and monitoring of projects of the 2007-2013 programming period with a view to successfully ending the maximum possible use of funds. The European Cohesion Policy Implementation Report for the past year shows that Slovenia has achieved its target by restoring 95 per cent of all spending rights and receiving the remaining 5 per cent when the reports are confirmed, which is expected to start in 2018. Special attention was also paid by our Group to a comprehensive report submitted by a representative of the Court of Auditors at the meeting of the competent committee, which, on the basis of the findings of the review of the correctness of the implementation of the 2015 budgets, delivered an opinion with reservation due to the identified shortcomings in the presentation of the accounting categories. A number of inconsistencies have been identified with the applicable labour law regulations, the taking-over and payment of budget obligations, the award of public contracts, the allocation of transfers, and some others. In our view, even in the past, even at the time of our government and all the past, this area has not been given sufficient or considerable attention. As the representative of the Ministry of Finance said at the meeting of the Commission of the National Assembly, at least in some areas it has taken a more thorough approach to addressing these issues. These differences had different causes. One of the very important results from ambiguities or differences in expert opinions and positions between the Government and the Court of Auditors, and therefore further proactive coordination will be necessary during the course of the audit, and part of it, as I have already mentioned, is also a historical indication resulting from amendments to the accounting rules of incomplete or outdated records, which must first be resolved at the substantive level before correct accounting recognition can also be provided. However, it is in all of these shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors for a long-term irregularity, we are dealing with shortcomings and imperfections that have been going on for some time. In this regard, we expect the Government to continue to implement decisively in the future implementation of the budgets, which will ensure compliance of enforcement with the Court of Auditors’ warnings, whether it is consistency in the publication of individual events, the creation of records that are the basis for the recognition of events, or for solutions that need to be defined more clearly or more specifically in system-wide legislation – here I am thinking mainly of the Law on Public Finances, which has not been recast for a number of years, more than a decade. As a result of the decision taken by the Commission on Public Finance Supervision in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 is to be adopted, but, as we say, we also expect a stronger dynamic of constructive cooperation between the Court of Auditors and the Government to make progress in this area at some point in time, and we believe that this part will also be carefully examined by the Government and incorporated into its further actions and activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the word again. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It's a one-year-old memory. We had the same theme, only the 2014 budget and not the 2015 final budget. The story is exactly the same. We talked about the same mistakes made by the Government or the Ministry of Finance in this regard and the same mistakes were pointed out by the Court of Auditors. And nothing or nothing happened, maybe a few meetings, maybe some coordination, and everyone's on their own shore. The government has decided not to take into account the only supervisor it has over itself and the budget, this is the Court of Auditors. One year ago, I was probably talking about the same thing, and nothing happened, and I was talking about the need to adopt the Public Finance Act, the new law, and the Law on Accounting, and nothing happened again. Because of this view, either the views, or the opinions, or anything else, that things need to be examined substantively first, that everything needs to be resolved first and that you need to look first at how you look, it's just a postponement; putting problems, problems for some later period, which probably will never happen. [[…]] And the government won't stick to it. There's actually all the art here that's not going to happen. After all, it is also so that probably everyone or a majority also agrees on the committee, and so on, that the problem here is that the Court of Auditors is right that the Court of Auditors constantly warns and so on, but when it votes, it votes differently. At least this committee voted differently, of course on its conscience, but in short, that everything was fine. Of course, then, such proposals, which would impose some adjustments to the budget, have simply not been announced and, after all, they do not oblige the Government. As with the previous item on the agenda, when we talked about the authentic explanation, about a law that is crystal clear, even from the explanation – so it is here and nothing happens. In this country, because of this, even the budget and so on, they accumulate and accumulate problems, problems that no one solves. One day it'll probably be over. The question is, Who will then solve them and who will then be responsible for the fact that nothing has happened? But here we have the same things that we are actually saying: from the use of European funds, from misrepresentation, about investment spending being recorded, so that there is no investment, then there is no investment, because there is no European funding, and they turn into current expenditure and so on and so on. Nothing happens. I think it's bad for the country, not just here for us, but it's bad for the current power as well as for the situation in the country we're in. In fact, the Government can do what it wants and with the budget and with the laws and opinions and so on and does not even consider the National Assembly or the Court of Auditors; and if the Court of Auditors says something, it does not take that into account. All others reviewed by the Court of Auditors shall write a response report and so on and shall try to correct the errors already in the response report. They show, most of them, I can say almost everyone – you can tell me one who didn't want to, but I don't know him or I don't remember him now – they have some interest in getting things right. This government does not have this interest in the closing account for any year. This is where it's actually going. I don't even know what it is. [[…]] It's simply about showing muscles at the I don't know which levels of administration, and I'll say, at probably infertile meetings, a lot of infertile meetings that I think went to dozens if not hundreds of hours, nothing happens. Except that government officials and, of course, those representing the Court of Auditors are paid. The wages run; the wages and the cards that they are at work run, and everything else does not happen. We live in a country like this. This also shows the government's attitude towards the Court of Auditors. We are not in favour of such a way in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are simply not in a way that is detrimental to citizens and citizens – if directly, indirectly. We are not in such a way that the Government does not respect the Supreme Supervisor, this is the Court of Auditors, and it also says that it will not respect him, as it says that it will not enforce any article of the law or that it will be slightly different. Look, I don't know if we still have separate authority here on the legislative and executive level, and they're both in the same position, or whether it's enforceable over everyone, it's probably just the blue sky above it, but everything else is down there in the fog. But in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way and we will not agree to such a situation, so we will not support the final accounts for 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Members and others present! The Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a budget document that allows us to look back and assess how consistent we have been in achieving the objectives set. Slovenia concluded in 2015 with €8.5 billion of revenue, while the expenditure of the state budget was slightly higher and amounted to €9.7 billion. It is important that we have managed to reduce the budget deficit by EUR 108.3 million. In the Desus Group as part of the coalition, we have taken a significant step on the revenue side of the budget. We started by effectively drawing public benefits and introduced tax registers that justified their purpose. Total tax revenues amounted to some more than €7 billion in 2015 and were 1.8% higher than originally planned. We believe that the continuation of the tax restructuring measures will further contribute to the charging of the state treasury on the basis of tax revenues. In doing so, we reiterate that the redistribution of the tax burden must be more equitable and not so much on the shoulders of the weaker strata of the population. That is why our key concerns remain regarding social and health security funds for citizens and pension funds. The pension transfer amounted to €1.465 billion in 2015 and was almost €65 million lower than planned. According to the financial plan ZPIZ, the total pension fund in 2015 weighed close to EUR 5 billion. It is regrettable, however, that the regular coordination of pensions due to restrictive measures in 2015 has not taken place and that the pensioners have received only an annual allowance of €19 million. This is why we are putting forward Desus' achievement in 2016, namely the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in January by 0.7 per cent and in October by 0.4 per cent; and in January 2017, the planned reconciliation of pensions by approximately 1.15 per cent. Of course, in the Desus Group, because of the increasing poverty among the elderly, especially among single women, we cannot yet be satisfied. The fact is that the average age pension is almost equal to the poverty threshold for a single-member household. Therefore, the Government and the competent ministries should do much more to eliminate poverty among the elderly, by preparing legislative proposals for the legalisation of a decent minimum wage and minimum pension, in order to gradually align employers' contributions with those paid by employers, to gradually increase pensions to a level that would have been achieved if there were no past freezes, in order to gradually increase the ratio between the average net pension and the average net salary from the current ratio of 55.4 per cent by the OECD to the recommended ratio of 70 per cent. The Desus Group addressed its requests and proposals for action to the President of the Government and to its coalition partner, who manage the competent ministerial departments responsible for preparing such legislative proposals. Demographic trends dictate the formulation of such a budgetary policy that will meet the challenges of the future. The White Paper on Pensions does not respond to the challenges of the future of employees and not pensioners. One of Desus's proposals, which we are pleased to see adopted by the coalition partners, is the establishment of a demographic fund, as we should also think of those who will retire in the coming years. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion to the general part of the 2015 final budget account subject to the error found in the presentation of revenue and expenditure. In addition, a number of regulatory inconsistencies have led to an opinion with a reservation to the correct implementation of the 2015 budget. In the opinion of the Desus Group, the ministries for which reservations have been made should address the deficiencies identified by the Court of Auditors as soon as possible. The final account provides a good basis for further improvements to the budget lines, so Members and Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support it. Of course, we also support the necessary amendments or new system rules governing the public financial operations of budgetary users, such as the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act, which will allow for easier and more transparent management of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers! As each year, the Government shall send the final bill to the National Assembly as an account of the financial year and as evidence of the implementation of the budget, the management of assets and within the framework of legality and economy. And as every year, this time, the proposal for a final account shall be revised by the Court of Auditors and shall give its opinion with reservation. Nor is there an exception to the grounds for the Court of Auditors' reservations this year, they are repeated year after year, but they are most closely related to the need to recast the Public Finance Act, which must fully regulate this area in order to avoid annual doubts about the auditors' corrections and, of course, the way in which state real property is recorded within the balance sheets. This year, it is good that the final account is accompanied by an analysis of salaries in the public sector, which means a more comprehensive and transparent system and the possibility of a more equitable regulation of this area, because before that we did not have a proper view of the Government or the Members. Despite the usual reservations made by the Court of Auditors, as well as others who have been largely eliminated, it can be concluded that the operation of the State in the last year has been uncritical in the framework imposed by the legislation, but we can also find that we cannot fully agree with all the findings of the Court of Auditors. This is, for example, by spending too much on investments by the state, and perhaps by making too little use of it in a given context. We believe that excessive delinquency could cause more problems than positive effects. It is also not important that the Court of Auditors’ assessment is based on the European Commission’s formulas, which Slovenia considers to be wrong, since they already showed us economic overheating in 2015, which can, of course, be considered to be unrealistic without specific analysis, but this has been particularly supported and proved by the Ministry of Finance, which has also negotiated the use of the correct methodology for calculating the necessary fiscal effort in the European Commission for this year. It is therefore important to conclude that, in preparing and revising the final accounts by the Court of Auditors, no major irregularities or excesses of legal limits have been fully identified, but that the minor irregularities brought to the attention of the Court of Auditors in the role of the auditor are at least partially rectified by corrective measures. We will, of course, support the Social Democrats' proposal for a final account, like all those who have spoken before me and probably others who will speak for me, but we expect a faster revision of public financial legislation and, above all, the elimination of the reasons why the annual budget revision faces an opinion with the exception of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your fine and successful work.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you for saying that again. The final budget account is, as a rule, more bookkeeping than a political issue, but it is certainly necessary to be careful about these issues as they may have wider implications. We know, for example, for Greece, where their oligarchy, with the help of American banks, forged the balance sheet to make it rich at the expense of its citizens. The final budget of the Republic of Slovenia is not such a forgery, but it is not made flawlessly. It is also subject to the standard reservations that the Court of Auditors, as already warned by the speakers before me, repeats practically every year. We did not specifically point out this in the 2014 accounts in the United Left because the former government was responsible for irregularities in the main part, and the 2015 budget and the production of a specific closing account are the responsibility of the current government. And since this report is not flawless either, because they have not drawn up a budget to which the Court of Auditors would not have made a reservation, we cannot support this final account. In particular, we need to highlight one information from the final account, which is important for the implementation of the 2017 and 2018 budgets. In particular, it is expenditure on social assistance. As we know, the Government for 2017 and 2018 envisioned significantly lower expenditure on this item than is expected to be realised in 2016. On the one hand, this means that social assistance will still be so low that it will not allow survival. I do not believe that this coalition would accept a budget rebalancing in order to raise the minimum income. I am not talking about minimum harmonisations, I am talking about that income should be raised at least to the level that was converted in 2009, i.e. EUR 385, which is the limit below which Slovenia cannot survive. Not worthy to survive; not survive! On the other hand, the Government is planning a significant reduction in expenditure over the next two years on the basis of unrealistic assumptions on the reduction of recipients of social assistance and the protection allowance. Here the government is wrong, as it was wrong in 2015. When we look at the item entitled Money Social Assistance, we see that last February the coalition adopted a balance that predicted 202 million Euros of expenditure. Realisation in 2015 was 219 million, so they were wrong by 8.4 percent. This is evident from the final report. If the Government is now serious about eliminating the recovery of social assistance and the protection allowance, a substantial number of people will apply for it. The number of potential beneficiaries is high. We have the poor 11,000 recipients of the protective supplement, but we know that in 2011 they were on average 47,000 recipients before the disastrous reform of the Pahor government. In addition, there were 16 000 recipients of state aid, mostly rural women. Thus, the social needs of our population are still significantly greater than what the Government is planning, even if the coalition insists on these shamefully low amounts of social benefits. That these amounts and policies are really antisocial shows two simple statistical comparisons. In Slovenia, we spend 18% of GDP on social protection, while the average of the euro area is 20.4%. Austria, which has significantly higher GDP and fewer social benefits, consumes an even higher share of – 21.4 percent. This, of course, proves that we are very far from the social state we need. What is considered social protection in general is all the more so for the unemployed. In 2014, Slovenia earmarked 0.8% of GDP for the unemployed, with an average euro area of 1.8%. Germany had a 5% unemployment rate and allocated 1.8% of GDP to the unemployed, while Slovenia once had more unemployment and allocated half of the GDP to 0.8%. By saying that decent compensation for the unemployed would reduce motivation for work, they do not hold back from putting them in European comparisons. If this is not a problem in Germany with inadequately higher compensation, it is not a problem in Slovenia either. There is no data for 2015, but it is clear that the situation has not changed significantly. Also in 2017 and 2018, as savings in the unemployed and recipients of social transfers continue, I will conclude the debate by calling on the coalition to abandon the policy of tax gifts to the best-paid and capital bearers, and finally increase the funds for social affairs, thereby allowing a decent life for everyone in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have the same story as last year and the same story as last year. And what did we do during this period so that we would not be told the exact same story? Nothing! Nothing at all. Final budget account. This is a business review, the Court of Auditors has given an opinion with reservation. And what kind of messages do we give? Why do we have this Court of Auditors in Slovenia? Not because the legislators would disagree with him, but because we take their opinions into account and try to make corrections based on their messages, not to say that we are right and they are wrong here in the National Assembly today. But from year to year, the Court of Auditors points out certain things that need to be changed, and we still do nothing. You're simply giving a message that we don't need the Court of Auditors. Tell me how the Court of Auditors will respect other institutions if the ruling coalition or the Government refuses to respect their views. How, then, will a congregation or public office respect this Court of Auditors? Absolutely not. For this reason, it is also very important at this symbolic level to make a different decision in this House and to reject or at least not support the proposal for a final budget. It is said that the coalition is actually overcoming the Court of Auditors' opinion, instead of respecting this opinion, they have tried to correct the errors. But in doing so, I would like to stress another important point, which the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors reminded us, namely that there are little errors in that the revenues and expenditure are not properly shown, said that if we are slightly more precise and look at specific figures, we can see that according to the Court of Auditors, expenditure in the Balance of Revenue and Expenditures should be higher by 0.07 per cent and revenue by 0.01 per cent. Expenditure in the Financial Claims and Investment Account is therefore overestimated by 20.2 per cent and income in the same balance sheet is undervalued by 2.1 per cent. Debt in the Funding Account is therefore undervalued by 0.2 per cent; repayments are undervalued by 0.4 per cent and benefits by 0.2 per cent. Those are the mistakes. Last year, as I said, in the New Slovenia Group, when we examined the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014, we warned that these repeated errors, which are being drawn from the government to the government, are from the mandate of the Republic of Slovenia, and no one is doing anything. Once the National Assembly should bring this to an end and say that we will not accept it and then there would be corrections and also respect for this institution, which is called the Court of Auditors. Another worrying fact is that we received only 82% of the planned funding from the European Union in 2015. In this place in Novi Slovenija, we warn that such poor planning or drawing on European funds in the future should no longer be repeated. Here, not only in the ruling coalition, but in all political structures, we should base one thought on what is so terribly wrong with us that we are planning so poorly to draw on European funds or not to take advantage of it. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons in New Slovenia, we will not support the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. At the same time, as we know that the coalition will of course accept this, we urge you again to stop repeating ourselves next year at this speaker's desk, or someone from the government can promise it today. There's a whole year ahead of you, and can someone please come here and promise? Because of our respect for the Court of Auditors' opinion, we will not be grumbled at their opinion. This is a matter of respect for legislation, some of the rules that we make ourselves. He's a year ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the closing account is a fact, a fact executed, with fewer or more errors. The Court of Auditors’ opinion, that is an opinion with reservation, has also been the same for many years, always an opinion with reservation. Apparently, both the 2015 final account and the vast majority of the past were executed within the framework that was still admissible for the Court of Auditors, and the actual errors were still admissible. However, I agree with those who say that it would be time for us to start taking the Court of Auditors' opinion a little more seriously to determine what needs to be changed during the execution process, because mistakes are absolutely too long and are repeated too often. And I'm also wondering why this doesn't actually go away. The second fact that I would like to point out is that the National Assembly adopts the budget, but now for two years in a row it is happening that the Ministry of Finance in a sense in mid-year so as to achieve the objective of the budget deficit that we have adopted in the National Assembly simply ceases to implement the budget. It also happened in the past month of October, the month of September; never before the end of September, except in the year of the 2014 national elections, which, of course, it seems to me, is the right thing for the existing government to stop implementing its policy and allow it to set new goals and frameworks. So I think it would be right to discuss in the National Assembly whether we accept the state budget for one year, whether we accept it for half a year, or maybe the one for 2017 with 200 and a few million holes, even for a month or two. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is the long-standing preparation of the Public Finance Act. I think that this law is at the Ministry of Finance on the table or at tables somewhere since 2006, and it would really be time, because certain changes are urgently needed to prepare this law and within the framework of those minimum ones that can be harmonised, we get to the National Assembly as soon as possible. As I said before, the final bill is a fact. Perhaps in the future it would be useful to consider how to address the changes required by the Court of Auditors. Hand to heart, we have never taken them into consideration before, and perhaps this amendment to the Public Finance Act needs some innovation. Our assessment, too, is that the final bill is an act to be adopted by the coalition itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a final account. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. A respected secretary of state with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! When we read the audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, we find that some errors are repeated and this is actually the worst key signal we send or, more precisely, the Government sends to the Slovenian public; and this is not good. It is not good that mistakes are repeated, and the mistakes that the first auditor in this country is alerting us to. Warn the government! Then it is perfectly logical that the Government deserves an opinion with reservation in the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Last night, I had an interesting event, an interesting evening, a conversation with citizens in my neighboring congregation, and I listened attentively to what the citizens expected. These are very useful meetings, as you, colleagues and colleagues have such experience. In fact, the first priority of citizens is that order must be established in the country. They are not interested in each budget item in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or in some law on ratification and so on. They are very simple to think because they walk the earth and think in accordance with the common sense of the farmer and ask us, above all, to establish order in this country. So what is the message when errors are repeated from budget to budget? This is not good and very kind, I would very politely like to draw attention to this government, which is, of course, crucial and responsible, bears the key responsibility that this does not happen further. And because I like numbers, these mistakes aren't just like that, one ice cream cap or one sandwich. To see why the Court of Auditors expressed its opinion with reservation. Because in the Balance of Income and Expenditure it found the following: expenditure – too low for good EUR 6.4 million, revenue – is too low for good EUR 545 000. In the Financial Claims and Investment Account, the benefits are too low for a good 867 000, expenditure – be careful – expenditure is too high for a good 47 million euro. Forty-seven million is a busy pile of money. And the third set, in the Funding Account, the revenue is too low for almost €8 million and the expenditure is too low for good €10 million. So the Court of Auditors, so our first auditor in the state, precisely, will give a close warning to the euro and show where the differences are where the errors are. If I now remember last week and the debates – even at times the fiery ones, although I think too little of the fiery ones – about the budgetary documents. Among other things, we heard her say that her road — her; well, it is a state road — was not specially shown in the Development Programme Plan or had no budget item, she was constantly thanking the minister for taking care and taking care of her road. What does that mean? That means he's going to – what? Did the budget just share, like, some kind of political line? That's not good. I hope that this will not happen, but that the inexperienced Member has said a little too much. However, I can expect and hope that there will be no such mistakes, but I can say right now that there will again be an opinion with reservations to the 2017 budget, because this government does not respect the Development Support Act of the Pomeranian Region. The government doesn't respect the laws. What kind of signal is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Now I am sure that the situation will not change until the attitude of the National Assembly towards this document has changed. Dear President, we are now discussing the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, the first important document that can talk about the work of the Government of Mir Cerar, and we have twelve seats in the Chamber. But we're talking about the closing account. The final account is a more important document to me than the budget and, Madam President, I appeal that we devote as much time to this document as we devote to the budget. For the budget we have a double time in Parliament; for the budget here is the entire ministerial assembly with the President of the Government. Today, however, we accept the country's final accounts for 2015 and there is not one minister or any minister present. Here's a team from the Ministry of Finance; one secretary of state plus a team. I am convinced that the final account of the Republic of Slovenia is not just the work of the Ministry of Finance; the Ministry of Finance, I would say, is an accounting exercise. We cannot talk about European funds. Who is responsible for significantly lower revenues from European funds than were planned? Why can't we ask individual ministers or ministers from this particular area? We're talking about the closing account. See, if we change this, I don't know, in corporate waters or in stock companies, the annual report is probably, in addition to the statute of each company, the most important act – it is addressed by the assembly, dealt with by shareholders, addressed by everyone. The plan for the year is so, but the annual report of the final account is the most important thing, we see what was promised and what actually happened. I am sure that we should pay more attention to this, and from year to year the story is the same. The Court of Auditors shall deliver an opinion, normally with reservations, at least three pages shall contain a series of irregularities that have been carried out, and this is worrying – errors in the presentation of revenue and expenditure. Your Honor, you're from the Ministry of Finance. You're part of the FURS and everything. Imagine what they would do if one company or one entrepreneur were to be found to be showing wrong income or expenditure. Not only would someone knock on the door, but I'm sure there's still a good chance someone's going to file any more criminal charges. What would FURS do if an economic company were to be in its final account to find out that both expenditure and income were misreported? And in the country we're not talking about 5,000 euros, here are the million figures found by the Court of Auditors to have been misrepresented, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. And no one. When we listen to the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular the coalition groups, it was said that, but also in the past, the Court of Auditors has always made comments. Look, I think this is now a crystal painting, why the situation in Slovenia is what it is. I'm concerned that the situation will only get worse. Dear President of the National Assembly, if you can appeal to anyone not to repeat this story again next year, as it is today. But I think this shows the attitude of the National Assembly towards this document and until we devote at least half of our attention to it as in the budget – but for me personally, I don't know, the final account is more important. The budget shall be adopted, shall have the option of bringing to the National Assembly the balance of the budget. It can be done, as this government has done to stop payments to budget users, I don't know, in August. The final account, however, is when you should look in the mirror, what has been promised, what has been done, and where things depart. According to the Court of Auditors, they are departing on a number of points and do not give up, I don't know, for a few thousand euros. We're talking about millions of discounts. I think this shows the state's attitude towards taxpayers, and I don't know what kind of opinion the taxpayers will have or will have. I don't think that's what it's supposed to be like, because we're talking about taxpayers' incomes and expenses. And we should pay much more attention to that. It is also my opinion that FURS or the Ministry of Finance should review once a year what happened to the taxes collected, because these taxes were paid by us or by taxpayers, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and what the existing government has done with this money. Where did all those billions that were paid into the Treasury get lost? I will repeat the case once again if one of the entrepreneurs is found to have misrepresented expenditure and revenue, I think that, above all, the Ministry of Finance and FURS are quickly knocking on the door and getting rigorous penalties. What will happen to the government of Mir Cerar that he misrepresented expenditure and income? Nothing! Today we're going to have a 45-minute debate, most coalition positions have gone in the direction, and that's what we used to do, and I'd say, "Dogs bark, caravans go on." I seriously appeal to all Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, perhaps this coalition will have the opportunity to defend the final account for 2016 in this National Assembly, although after some of the events and actions that this coalition is taking, I am sure that they do not deserve to sit in this House when the final account for 2016 is accepted, in the event that you, the honourable President of the National Assembly, sit down to devote much more time to this topic, to the final account of the State. Significantly more time, at least as much as for the budget, and in the final account of the State, which is an act of the Government, when it was seen what had been done over a period of one year, that there were more of us Members present in this Chamber, and in particular that there would be at least one Minister sitting in the final account of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	In view of the fact that your speech also contained two procedural proposals, I will inform the Commission about one of the rules of procedure, as regards the time devoted to this point, and the other I will also inform the Government of this proposal. I think this is correct because you have given it in this way and because it will in fact be devoted to this issue probably half the time that has been foreseen after the already very time-consuming meeting of this National Assembly. I now give the floor to the conclusion of the debate to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Marija Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to the view that the Government does not respect the Court of Auditors' opinions. It's not like that. If we look at page 135 of the audit report and look at the reasons for not taking account of individual audit proposals, it is clear from them that in the issuance of RS 21 and RS 39 bonds in 2011, the substantive sectoral legislation governing the issue of these bonds and the payment of the State's obligations under this title has changed and since then the recording of business events for payments under both bonds has been carried out, as was the Court of Auditors' proposal. The second thing is to draw European funds from the Cohesion Fund in line with the old financial perspective. The fact is that they were then – such cases are with SPS and Sid Bank. The fact is that the European Commission has not given clear instructions on how these procedures, these business events are recorded, each country has chosen its own method of recording, and the fact is that this was not good, as the European Commission has also learned and has issued slightly more tangible instructions for the new financial perspective. Together with the Court of Auditors, we have agreed to register financial engineering instruments, both with the Enterprise Fund and with that fund of funds to be selected for the implementation of this financial perspective. The third fact that we are preparing the Public Finance Act is also the text that defines the correction of the Court of Auditors to the final account of the state or perhaps the municipal budget. We have actually aligned ourselves with them so that the corrections can only be made in advance. Not only because the Republic of Slovenia would have wanted this because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have wanted it, but because it is a practice of a large number of countries in the European Union. The second thing I would like to respond to is to draw on European funds. It is true that at the time of the old financial perspective, Slovenia has absorbed 92% of the funds invested. However, it is true that, together with the funds it will acquire from the so-called retained funds in 2018, it will actually draw 100 per cent of all the funds from the old financial perspective. This was also said in a brief explanation of the final budget account at the beginning of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss the matter. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If a representative of the Government wishes to sign up, he should also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, the government gets the word as the last. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Andrej Shercelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to respond to what the government has just said. She said that she has followed one proposal on bonds and that they are on the European Commission, and I quote: "No clear instructions have been given as to how these events are recorded." And thirdly, the JJF, together with the Court of Auditors, are preparing provisions and so on. If this is on the one hand now the answer to the Government and on the other hand we have what the First Deputy to the Court of Auditors has said: 'This year the Court of Auditors has demanded the same or similar corrections as the Government has rejected again'. I believe they solved one thing together. An excuse for the European Commission not to have been a public instruction and so on; see the Government of the European Commission asking 15 more times if it does not know. He doesn't ask, I don't know, high European officials, he talks to officials and let them clear it up in Brussels or Ljubljana, wherever. Such excuses, I'm sorry, I think they're unworthy. And what the Government is preparing together with the Court of Auditors in the Law on Public Finance, which we are waiting for in the National Assembly, I do not know since this mandate has been in force, see, at the working level we are actually not interested in much, and such excuses are completely irrelevant. It's completely irrelevant. But I was quoting what the First Deputy Court of Auditors said, and the fact is that this government doesn't take that into account. The statements, even if they were taken into account, the Court of Auditors still issued its opinion with reservation, which of course we also know what the opinion with reservation means and how much of the data was wrong, were not in accordance with the law, either in the light of correctness or in terms of economy or economy. That's why I can't accept that we're just gonna say that now that everything's okay again, the Court of Auditors has no interest in us. I think that the National Assembly should instruct the Government to give unconditional consideration to these proposals made by the Court of Auditors, or to draw attention to errors. Unconditional! Take it first, then, if something's wrong, if something's not right, change it with legislation. But the Court of Auditors said it's been five years. I don't know, it's not just this government, but other governments have been in these five years, I'm fully aware. But the same mistake — nothing happens. I believe it's not on the level, not the minister, and so on. This is at the mid-level of the Ministry where this is discussed: directors of the Directorates, directors of the sectors and so on are talking, and the Minister of State and the Secretary of State are likely to come before they send the final bill to the National Assembly or have it in the Government. And they just don't get along. Officials don't get along. I do not think that the President of the Court of Auditors is talking about the writing of an item for a very long time. But you know exactly who's doing it. And they don't! Then the minister gets white in black: that's not what we talked about, go to the government with it and go to the National Assembly with it. Five years. That's why it's unimaginable. See, President, here the coalition parties have come to their conclusion, and this agony of irregularities, carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the whole Government, will continue in 2016, 2017 and – what should I say? Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	This concludes the debate. We will decide on the Final Account proposal in accordance with the meeting’s timetable on Tuesday, 22. 11. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
