ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Jan Škoberne, Dr. Laszlo Göncz and Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 16.15 onwards. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I also welcome the other guests. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 19 February 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal recommended in connection with the government's plans to solve the migratory crisis. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, Mag. Branku Grims for further explanation of the proposal for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u2	Your Honor! I am gathering a very nice greeting on behalf of the entire Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services! Safety, the basic area of our work, is the good that is known to us as health — when we lose it. Security is a fundamental good that should be provided by every state and interstate community to all who live in its territory. In particular, security is a complex issue that cannot be guaranteed only by means of individual parts or institutions or by the participation of only some parts of society, but requires a comprehensive approach. It requires the involvement of all branches of government – as enforceable here as is the fundamental institution, as is the parliamentary one, i.e. the legislative one, and the judicial branch of power. This is the only way to achieve security as a whole. It is always necessary to avoid those traps to mix different concepts, to try to limit the security issue only to some institutions, because this is dangerous because the concept of security and the concept of power is intertwined. And we have seen this in history many times as a lever for the exercise of the partial interests of individual elites and certainly no one wants this to happen in Slovenia. The reason for today's agenda is in two parts for today's proposal for a meeting. The first was that at one of the previous meetings of the Commission, on the proposal of Dr. Trčko, we decided to address at the next meeting what the Foreign Minister had announced at that time, namely that the Government has four scenarios for dealing with the migration crisis. Why is this so important to our work? For a simple reason, as the Commission examines security aspects within its competences, it assesses the possibilities and necessity for cooperation and supervision of the competent services and makes appropriate recommendations and proposals to the Government within its competence. We also did this at this national assembly a few months ago; our proposal adopted a decision which essentially meant that more attention and more material means should be paid, that is, money should be given to security, due to modern confrontations, particularly the migration crisis which today is a challenge for the state of Slovenia. However, when we convened a meeting on this point, we received a letter from the Ministry of the Interior at 5 p.m., in which the Minister informed us that neither she nor the police representatives of this meeting would attend, because of their assessment that the report was being considered, I quote: "the Commission's strict competence in relation to the police as a security service"; therefore, and because of other obligations, they are simply justifying and predicting the absence of representatives. This would in practice mean agreeing that the Commission can conclude its work. For if today's security challenge is the highest category facing this country – not only before its formal institutions, but before all citizens and citizens – this is the security challenge of illegal migration, which we have witnessed in recent months, unfortunately also in recent months, in the way that virtually all migrations to Europe across our soils go. This, of course, raises a number of questions, and now that things have changed in the target countries as well, in particular, the relationship in the northern countries has changed, in part, even in Germany, it has changed very strongly in Austria, and this raises the question of what will happen to Slovenia? The decision to put the situation in place when the entire flow through Slovenia opened up the question of what will happen when the return flow occurs? And that's what we're dealing with right now. Therefore, the issue of cooperation for this competent service is also important: the security, intelligence and, of course, the police, which is the first foundation that currently defends the security of the State of Slovenia. But we'll have to defend ourselves differently. For everyone who has had experience with migrants, you know well that there is only one real authority for them, and that is the army. Only when a soldier appears does the situation begin to calm down, only then do people really listen, only then can it be created and controlled and thus, of course, ensure the fundamental value that all citizens and citizens rightly expect from their country – that is security. Parliamentary democracy in itself is a value from which both Europe, modern Europe and the Council of Europe draw the reasons for as much unity as possible. And they have long warned, especially the institutions of the Council of Europe and the European Union, that where there is a lack of parliamentary control, where there is any attempt to restrict parliamentary control, democratic deficits will occur sooner or later, and the rejection of parliamentary democracy by the public, which is then reflected in abstinence in elections, referendums, and ultimately this will arise normally in political extremism and in the worst case even in violence. Therefore, it is very important that things light up in time. That is why many times our commission has acted differently. And at this very meeting, which unfortunately was not attended by police representatives or the interior ministry, we also wanted information about the provocations we witnessed. You know what happened at the mosque site and also by burning or damaging vehicles in front of Pop TV. Even then, we could not get answers because there were no responsible ones. Only as an additional detail how the absence or non-execution of its role by the executive branch of power can distort the supervisory role of Parliament, which, in the case at hand, is carried out by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which is placed by an absolute majority, i.e. with some special confidence on behalf of Parliament as a whole. Our advantage is to work in closed sessions, so that we can talk openly there and that all confidential material is also available to us, since it is only in this way that we can do our work creatively. There is no control function without this. That is precisely why we are bound by silence, and therefore any refusal to provide information is the more irresponsible act of the executive branch. This was the common opinion of all of us who were at the meeting at the time. And we can only regret this situation. For this reason, we would like to point out in particular that the principle of consensus should be sought when it comes to such an important security issue as the migrant crisis. The principle of consensus, which, of course, can only be sought on the basis of credible and fully accessible information, which must be accessible to both the position represented in the Government and the opposition, which has its representatives only in Parliament. On these really fundamental national issues, such as the security issue, particularly in the face of a challenge such as the migration crisis, it would be best if consensus could be reached on all fundamental issues. However, where this is not possible, it is certainly in the interest of all — in the interest of the public — in the interest of the responsible executive branch, if it is responsible, as well as in the interest of Parliament, to try to achieve the highest possible degree of consensus. Only in this way and in the presentation of all the arguments and important facts, including the public, is that consensus achieved in a society that is important for its optimum functioning. We all know that if fear is present, it not only affects the individual’s possible behaviour, but it also affects the economy. If there is fear, if there is awareness of some disproportionate risk, entrepreneurs will not invest, there will be no new productive jobs. And ordinary people, citizens and citizens will keep money at home or at best in banks. Money won't go around, it won't run the economy. And that's why the economy stays in a vortex, in a spiral that leads only down. And it is not the case that, now that so many migrants are going through Slovenia, predictions that have already been somewhat optimistic in the field of economy, in the area of entrepreneurship, economies are changing, unfortunately, in a very, very negative direction, because fear does its thing. For all this we have proposed that this meeting be convened, so that all the information to which we firmly believe you have the right of all Members and Members of Parliament be presented at the meeting. And to the extent possible, we are obliged to give this information to the public, because there must not be an impression on any branch of authority that something is being hidden. People want to know what awaits them, want to know all the basic information about their decisions, want to know how they will live and what they will do to make the most of their common well-being, and what they must do for their own safety. Above all, they expect — and I hope that we are all aware of it — that we all, each Commission, Parliament as a whole and every branch of power, are doing ourselves and together to ensure those fundamental goods that we owe to people, namely, the right to security, the right to a consistent respect for personal integrity, especially women and children, that we are obliged to do everything in our power to drive the economy to do everything for human well-being and security. For this reason, I should only end with an event that is certainly broken in Slovenia in some way. Just two days ago, on Saturday you could see what the human uprising looked like before the building of the former Baumax in Kranj, specifically in the congregation of Shenchure, for those who do not know Gorenjska so well. The message was one thing: We do not need an illegal migrant in Slovenia. Whoever didn't want to understand this message by now, I hope it does. And because of this — because there was nothing violent about it, nothing bad about it, but it was an expression of consciousness that we wanted to live safely, that we wanted to live for our country — everything needed to be done to be heard. People have the right to have authority to listen to. But the duty of this authority is to listen to what people expect of it and not act like a coward laying some cowardly eggs around, but to give people a clear picture to show them the right solutions and then to hold on to what they offer people. Today is an opportunity. On behalf of the Commission as a whole, I also express my expectation that the executive branch of the authorities will present everything it is preparing in this area and what needs to be known here today, today, in order to inform the Parliamentary Assembly as the institution of the parliamentary branch of power, and because the meeting is open to the public. I firmly believe that you are all aware that not only the right, but also the duty of Members and Members to become aware of such an important topic, and it is our common duty to give relevant, comprehensive and honest information to the Slovenian public as well. Only in this way will the Commission's proposal be taken into account, and only in this way will the Commission's objective, which is covered by the two conclusions – on consistent and correct information and on the search for consensus – also be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! As you know, the situation in migration is changing from day to day. Only Germany and Austria have an open asylum policy. The latter has recently significantly exacerbated the conditions for migrants to enter its territory. On the other hand, the Slovenian security authorities and all the relevant services monitor developments related to migration on the Western Balkan route and thus react quickly and quickly to the new situation and, as a result, exacerbate entry into Slovenia. The aim of all measures taken by the Government is to slow down or halt migration flows across Slovenia and to prevent more migrants from being retained in Slovenia. As we said at the press conference last week, the announcement of tighter Austrian measures and quotas for Slovenia is no surprise, as this is also the result of coordination and exchange of opinions with the Austrian side at the highest level. Therefore, last week, the Slovenian Government adopted additional or activated the measures already envisaged to secure the Schengen or Slovenian borders to reduce migration flows and to allow procedures more efficient and humanely for those who are genuinely eligible for international protection. Thus, the Slovenian security authorities will only send to the country those who will meet the formal and actual conditions of entry or demonstrate their intention to apply for asylum in our country. In this context, Slovenia will adapt in concrete procedures to the number of migrants it has announced and will also accept Austria. At the same time, this also means a consistent return of all those coming from safe countries. Slovenia, in accordance with the instructions of the National Assembly and in accordance with Article 5 of the Schengen Code, as well as other Member States, has so far used the option afforded by the Schengen legislation to release migrants on its territory for humanitarian reasons, which Slovenia is now radically exacerbating. This is an exception that the legislation allows, and in practice, it is also difficult to assess who is entitled to such an exception and who is not. This is why a number of economic migrants have come to the European Union in recent times who are not eligible for international protection, as shown by the proper procedures for processing asylum applications, and will consequently be returned to their countries of origin. On Friday, the European Council also adopted an agreement on the EU summit to bring an end to the large, group crossing of the land borders of migrants for humanitarian reasons and to care for refugees who actually need shelter, through relocations directly from registration centres, hotspots in the Greek and Italian islands, and with refugee relocation programmes directly from Turkey. Slovenia, as a country on the external Schengen border, is obliged to fully respect the conclusions of the European Council and to implement such a regime. The same obligation lies with Croatia, which has an external border of the European Union and Greece, which also has an external Schengen border. All government measures are already being implemented, we are waiting for the approval of the National Assembly on the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, which will temporarily and exceptionally allow the granting of certain exceptional powers to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I can say that the migration flow over Slovenia is still under control and that the Government is acting in a way that remains so, so it will respond appropriately to the situation that is changing daily as it has so far. We will not give in to the protection of the Schengen border, and we also come from our sovereignty. As regards the Commission's recommendations for the supervision of intelligence and security services, the Government is the executive body and the Government in accordance with the Constitution, laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, establishing, directing and coordinating the implementation of the State's policy. To this end, it shall issue rules and take other measures necessary to ensure the development of the State and to regulate the situation in all areas within the jurisdiction of the State. In order to coordinate security measures, the Government shall have a National Security Council as its consultative and coordinating body for the defence, security, security and resolution systems and other matters of national security. The President of the SNAV also invites the representative of the largest opposition party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to all others, and so, in the event of the last reference, the meeting was mentioned. In view of the clearly demonstrated legal relations and powers between the executive and legislative branches of the authorities and the powers of the Commission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the item under consideration, as it was included in the meeting of the KNOVS, does not fall within the scope of the tasks of the Commission, which is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the undercover investigation measures of the police under the Criminal Procedure Act, and therefore does not concern general security issues. This Commission shall monitor only part of the police activity relating to the implementation of covert investigation measures. In fact, supervision under the authority of the Commission is granted because the police for the rehabilitation of the range of classical investigation measures are using covert investigative measures and in relation to these disguised investigative measures because they constitute a significant interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms. This, last but not least, is of utmost importance for the legitimacy of the work of this Commission, which, by its inherent nature, is somehow based on the assumption that confidence in the work of the police in interfering with human rights must be reaffirmed and reaffirmed. State border control also does not constitute a disguised investigation measure in the Schengen border work. For the reasons stated just or in the entire presentation, the Government cannot support the first recommendation, as it requires the Government to keep the National Assembly informed of all moves and plans. In practice, this would mean that, after all SNAV or government meetings, where plans are dealt with and actions are coordinated, exceptional references to the meetings of the National Assembly are proposed, which would in practice be virtually impossible due to time dynamics. The government, however, agrees with the second recommendation that it strives to seek the broadest consensus in all political institutions at the time of the creation of possible solutions. With regard to the Commission's request to inform Members and Members of the National Assembly of the findings of the police regarding the investigation into the construction of the mosque and the investigation of the burning of POP TV vehicles, we inform you that, with regard to the pig heads rejected at the construction site of the mosque in Ljubljana, the police continue to collect information and evidence in connection with the offence under Article 297 of the Penal Code — the offence of public incitement to hatred, violence and intolerance. With regard to the burning of POP TV vehicles, it is known that on 1 February in the early morning, at least three unknown perpetrators with a personal vehicle brought along Kranjcheva Street to the vicinity of the POP TV building. Two masked strangers headed for the roof where the news vehicles were parked. On several vehicles, they broke the glass and poured the vehicles inside with the unknown flammable liquid they brought with them. When they lit the fire, they escaped from the scene. The fire was observed by the security guard, who partially extinguished the fire on one combined vehicle with the fire extinguisher and then informed RCO. The fire was completely extinguished by firefighters, and four combined vehicles were damaged. On one, the damage is estimated at around 50,000 euros, and on the other three, the damage is lower. Elements of the offence of injury to foreign goods and of the cause of general danger have been fulfilled by the act described. Both cases are intensively investigated by criminals from the Crime Police Sector PO Ljubljana, of course with the expertise of the UKP General Police Administration. Due to the interest of the investigation, we cannot provide more detailed information at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! This year, the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission carried out a review of the agenda item in early February on the basis of a decision adopted at the end of January of the same year: Report on the four plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the migration crisis (security aspect – implementation of the KNOVS Decision). In the context of its consideration of that point, it formulated a proposal for recommendations for which it wanted to be addressed by the National Assembly at its plenary session. On this basis, the National Assembly would call on the Government to keep it informed of migration issues and to seek the widest possible political consensus at the time of the development of possible solutions to fundamental security issues. As it was possible to understand the Commission's behaviour, this decision was made to make recommendations to the Government because representatives of one of the invited ministries, the Ministry of the Interior and the police did not attend the Commission's meetings. For this reason, the members of the Commission decided by a majority that the government's security plans for managing the migration crisis had not been properly informed. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we have decided to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in spite of the recommendations which, although they are something quite common in parliamentary democracy and are part of the political everyday life, in order to be aware of the changing situation in relation to the current migration problem and of the planned action. The undeniable fact is that the migration crisis is today the greatest both civilisation and humanitarian challenge for Slovenia and the whole of Europe, and that the search for common answers to migration issues remains the main challenge of the European Union and its Member States. Slovenia is one of those Member States of the European Union that advocate a common European response and cooperation in the most effective management of migratory flows in a way that will monitor this flow in relation to the country's available capacity, including in cases of border closure by other countries also ensuring adequate control and protection at the external borders of the European Union. Since no significant changes have been made in these respects since the beginning of the migration flows, Slovenia, on the one hand, on the initiative of the President of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar, has been extremely proactive in cooperating with the submission and search of proposals for solutions with the other Member States of the European Union and with the political institutions themselves of the European Union. On the other hand, it was forced, within the framework of constitutional and legal restrictions, to prepare or plan and implement all necessary measures to manage the migration challenge within the country. In both of these cases, the National Assembly, as the institution of the parliamentary branch of power, has both the constitutional right and the duty to decide, within its competences, on such measures and in certain cases, the final legislative decision. This is the case with the next item on the agenda of today's Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, namely the decision of the National Assembly to activate the Government's proposal for a decision to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act. However, the question that is crucial to the knowledge of the National Assembly on migration issues is when, in what cases, how and to what extent the Government plans to take current measures with a high level of security, the National Assembly and another public. In the case of the management of migration flows, all of this is also of particular importance because it is expected that there are already two opposing groups in the public from the beginning, even an exclusionary view of the responses or actions of the country, which are, on the one hand, linked to the provision of solidarity and humanitarian assistance to refugees and migrants and, on the other, to the provision of smooth life and security to their own citizens and also to refugees and migrants located in the territory of our country. When, in order to ensure the safety of its own citizens and the targeted transition of refugees or migrants through our country, technical obstacles have been placed on the non-transitional and more difficult parts of the green border, one part of the domestic public has become more or less comprehensible and patient to this security measure. By trying to compare that measure with the situation in concentration camps. The situation in our country was compared to one of the greatest civilisation wounds of the European and Slovenian 20th century. Why so, to whom and for what purpose such attempts of comparison are used, except for the absence of internal unrest and accounting, I am even afraid to think. It is the same, and there is no doubt that it will not happen again after today also in the event of the examination of Article 37a of the Defence Act. In the second extreme field, we observe the rejection of any temporary institutional solution to place refugees and migrants in accommodation centres in local environments. At the same time, however, how could safe roof over our country's heads be provided to domestic citizens and especially refugees from the military hotspots, let us be told by opposers of such a measure, which, by their will or willful conduct, brings to our minds another terrible aspect of the European and especially the war and postwar Slovenian 20th century. Have we really forgotten how, without the human understanding and solidarity of other countries, many, even Slovenian refugees would not survive at that time? And so, in this completely different attitude from the first one described, we can ask ourselves exactly the same question: Why so? To whom does such a response serve and serve, except for the netting of internal unrest and accounting? Once again, the issue of migration is a key civilisation issue of today's European and Slovenian space. It can only be adequately responded to under the pre-condition of a high level of security provided by the State to both Slovenian citizens and refugees and migrants who want to stay or just cross the Slovenian territory. In terms of parliamentary work and competence, this is also a process of extremely complex issues in addition to substantive ones, so they cannot be addressed only in individual segments and through reporting of only parts of government or even government services, and not only in one of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is also right that, in the event that there are legitimate reasons for this, they are also dealt with by the National Security Council, in addition to the Government and its coordination group and, of course, by the National Security Council, on the plenary, even several consecutive occasions. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the Government is also seeking the widest consensus at the time of the creation and adoption of solutions in the design of solutions to fundamental security issues. From all of this, therefore, Members of the MEPs and Members of the Modern Centre Group will be constructively involved today in the debate itself and in the search for possible recommendations from the Commission, although at least some of these recommendations appear to be very self-sustaining. In doing so, we hope that today's meeting will help to ensure that such complications that we have witnessed at the Commission's meeting on the supervision of intelligence and security services will no longer occur, and that we will all act together in a democratic and responsible manner in accordance with our competences, or that all institutions responsible for ensuring the functioning of the national security system will carry out their mission in a democratic and responsible manner in the future. As well as all others in this central security and humanitarian challenge of today's part-time group, we expect from local communities, civil society, non-governmental and humanitarian organisations, professions, the media and, of course, the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u7	Mr Janez Ivan Janša, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Unfortunately, this agenda item is here at the request of members of the opposition on this committee. If the Government were to deal so seriously with this issue and if it were to propose or point out the dilemmas, as this Commission is doing, there would be no such panic in Slovenia today because of migration. But that's just by the way. We expected representatives of the government today to hear more information and also views on how to solve this problem in the future. Finally, these recommendations are recommendations from the Commission, which, of course, we support, are intended to do so. The time for fire action alone is long past. The migration problem will not disappear from the agenda, we will be on these benches, or you will follow it for many years. The situation in Europe, and above all around Europe, has changed dramatically. It's not some storm that'll pass, and then the sun will shine again, and we'll deal with the usual stuff. The problem of migration for Europe in the coming decade will be one of the key problems. If we're talking about migration in general and we're trying to separate refugees and migrants, let's look at some numbers. If we're talking about refugees, we're talking about those who run from war, from death and from destruction, here's the focus of Syria. According to official data of the United Nations, in mid-November last year, the latest data, in the Syrian civil and religious conflict, killed almost 300,000 people, 7 million people were displaced across Syria – that is, now more have been displaced across Syria, it is said, internal refugees – 4.2 million people were refugees from Syria outside the country, and 13 million people were in danger of being deprived of basic necessities, which means that they are potential refugees. Many of these numbers came to Europe, but still only a small proportion. In addition to those who had actually fled from death, especially women and children, this refugee or migrant wave included hundreds of thousands more people who were looking for a better place to live in Europe. And Europe, including Slovenia, has accepted all this uncritically without triage. Last year, almost a million and a half migrants and refugees were thus adopted. Let's say that one third of these women and children were from Syria or Iraq, where people actually face the threat of death and the risk of non-survival. Two-thirds of them were economic migrations, or even if we're talking about Syria and Iraq, in this wave, young men who actually had to fight for their homeland and for their homes were leaving it to the Kurdish women's warriors. Because Europe has adopted a million and a half migrants without triage last year, and Slovenia has participated in at least a third of this number, and all the refugee centres in Europe are in fact sold out, if I say so, in the future there will be no room for those who run away from death again or who will run away from death again and die as a result. As a result, this policy, unfortunately part of which was also Slovenia, which did not implement the Schengen Agreement last year, was not a policy of solidarity, although this has been explained and although probably someone had such a good purpose, it was false solidarity. From this false solidarity many people will die in the future and that is who you are, I will say, here uncritically supported the destruction of the Schengen order, write to your soul. If we're talking about a migratory wave, it's been getting stronger for the last few years. Here is more than the Middle East, of course, the starting point of Africa. A map of Africa with an average population age in African countries was presented at the recent Munich Security Conference. The average age of the population in African countries is between 23 and 25 years. It is said that hundreds of millions of young people without perspective, without jobs seeking bread, better place to live, education, not least social transfers such as in Europe. And of course this problem with some conclusions from the European Council or with some meetings of leaders or police ministers will not be resolved. Some strategic approach, except that more or less on paper knows what needs to be done, is not here. This is why we are in chaos, which is now part of Slovenia. The next item on the agenda is the proposal to grant the Slovenian Army additional powers, something that they already have. We're playing a game with her that's not very important, maybe because the government is trying to appease the public, even though it's more or less Sisyphus's work. In such a situation it is not a problem that the military does not have powers, the problem is that Slovenia hardly has an army. The problem is that you do not have the practical authority to give someone a negligible number. Last year, when some trends around us were such that they should not be overlooked and that most of our partners in the European Union and NATO no longer overlooked them, Slovenia should also start to significantly strengthen its defence and security apparatus. This is evident today, including the last layman in this country, but the government doesn't. Instead of this point, or in addition to this item on powers, there should be a budget rebalance today, where both ministries would be provided with additional resources to start strengthening the defence and police forces as well. In Europe, not just because of the migration crisis, but also because of this, disintegration has begun. I am a great advocate of European integration and have recently been a great optimist. Europe has gone through all kinds of storms and, given that I know the functioning of European institutes in the gut, I know that many times there has been a solution, even when no one believed it was possible, and the next morning someone has come up with this solution and has reached a compromise or they have all come together around a solution. Now in this situation, we're waiting for this step, and we're waiting for it, and it's not. If the British referendum is negative in June, Britain will leave the European Union, a trend will begin that no one believed could begin two years ago. The next phase can be Europe, where there will be some strong – economic, military and political states, and around a large number of binding states that no one will ask for an opinion, as we are now asked or can participate in the formulation of joint decisions within the European Union. The boundaries that we know today, and we think that a constant that will never change or be threatened again, will no longer have that status. You just have to be aware of that. With the disintegration of Europe or the weakening of Europe, the same process will also involve the North Atlantic Alliance, where we are in the last place after our contribution or our contribution, and I do not believe that we would take us seriously if we ask for help, given that we are not actually able to even take care of ourselves, and that we will only contribute further to common security if we subtract some successful participation in international peace operations, which is now not at the forefront and in fact counts nothing. So I urge the Government to seriously analyse the situation and submit the necessary measures. I remember a time 25 years ago – and now many of these events are a memento of the time in which after the vote plebiscite the Slovenian state began – when these were dilemmas, or some additional means of defence were allocated. Otherwise, the role was reversed; now we are in a paradoxical situation when the opposition proposes these measures and the government rejects them or hears them. At least it was reversed, in short, the government proposed these measures, and the opposition blocked it and we only adopted the defence budget three months after the plebiscite or the end of March, and then the Demos government had three months to improvise with the defence system, which was then thank God enough. Now the situation may not be so dramatic, but it may be even more dramatic. We do not know what this year will bring, so I really suggest that these warnings be taken seriously and that the measures are also taken in a timely manner. That after six months, we will not listen to the Prime Minister of the Government, who will come up with this idea and sell it as his own, as is now the case with the second defence line on the Macedonian border. We proposed this measure, I think on August 28th last year. Hungary proposed it several times officially in the early autumn, and later the Visegrad Group. Hungary has also sent generous financial, police and material assistance to Macedonia to strengthen this border. And then there is Slovenia, which after 6 months repeats a proposal that is already being largely realized, and it sells it as an innovation. I will not comment on this, because it is more tragic than serious, but you can see for yourself that some of the measures that are being implemented quickly, without reflection, and not in time, more because of the piranhas than because of their response to the actual situation, are giving court results, as the predecessor has said before me. When the wire was placed at the border, it was also placed where there was no real need, only a problem you caused to the local population. Every smart one can calculate that no one will swim across the Ring in the White Land over the winter, but at the same time there are a few hundred kilometers where there is no river without this wire and without this fence. I don't know what you're gonna do there. So, in due time, you have to build up your own answers to the challenges, listen to smart advice, at least not ignore them, and follow that old saying that it's very good to have someone help you, but first you have to rely on yourself. First you have to rely on yourself. Perhaps another warning, or other information, that should sober up a number of people, is not actually heard in our public space. Germany or the German government, which is to a large extent to blame for the fact that this migrant situation in Europe has deteriorated and is also to blame for the failure to build a second defence line in due time, and which now puts everything in its hopes in the morning when it is intended to start this maritime operation in the Aegean Sea – I do not think that the same result will be the result as expected - well, this same German government is now officially pressing the European Commission to amend the 26th Article of the Schengen Code after a rapid procedure, so that the permanent establishment of internal borders in Europe will be possible. Now it's time-limited. Since Germany has applied these provisional measures and has extended them at certain parts of the border, these deadlines expire in mid-May, and it is now exactly Germany that expects the European Commission to implement this procedure to amend Article 26 of the Schengen Code, so that this measure is possible as a permanent measure. If you go to Austria today, you will also meet the Austrian police and the army at small border crossings in Koroška; every day is more, things are going in a dramatic direction. So we take this opportunity to appeal to the Slovenian government to prepare as soon as possible some comprehensive measures to strengthen the Slovenian security and defence system, and to take these proposals, regardless of whether they come from a commission where the opposition has a majority, no longer with its left hand. In the future, we expect government representatives to attend meetings when this commission discusses these matters and that there will be answers to a number of questions, because such reading exercises as the one presented here by the Minister, nobody needs them and nobody has anything to do with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u9	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and Colleagues. In the Desus Group, we believe that migration flows are a major security challenge for Slovenia, as well as for the European Union as a whole. That is why effective security is very important. However, efficiency is achieved only by involving all institutions in the security management organisation. At its 15th emergency meeting at the end of January this year, the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission adopted a decision committing it to draw up a specific agenda item at which representatives of the Government and the competent security and intelligence services will present to the Commission scenarios or plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the migration crisis. That's five. 2. There was an urgent meeting of the KNOVS, which was not attended by the invited representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, as they justified their absence on the grounds that the report was being considered beyond the powers of the Commission in relation to the police as a security service. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the National Assembly and the competent working bodies have the right and the duty to become aware of the measures and solutions taken by the Government. Of course, it is necessary to stick to the framework and do not go beyond the competences of individual working bodies and bodies. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is important that we all work together and look for common solutions in relation to the security issue that occurred in the context of the migration crisis. We also support any debate that will lead to objectives that will ensure security for both our citizens and citizens, as well as for all those who find themselves in our territory in the context of the migrant flow. In the Desus Group, we reiterate that the Government and the National Assembly are obliged to take care of both security and the protection of the state border and to inform citizens and citizens of this. We are confident that the Government will give us an adequate understanding of the plans for migration. We also know that the Government is constantly seeking the widest possible consensus of all political institutions in the country, of course within the competence of individual institutions, so it does not need specific recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleague, dear colleagues! The migration problem is undoubtedly the greatest humanitarian, religious and cultural issue, especially the security challenge facing Europe at that time. Wars and insufferable living conditions unmercifully daily drive thousands of people out of the country who are looking for a better and, above all, safer life in this part of the world. Recently, how the lively idea of a common Europe without borders is now becoming a contradiction, as European countries from the north to the south are closing their borders and establishing strong security control regimes on them. Despite many efforts, in particular the highest European policy, we still do not have satisfactory common answers to effectively address the migration problem. It is not surprising, therefore, that individual European countries, either alone or more in smaller groups of countries in their neighbourhood, decide how they will face the challenge of mass migration. Slovenia as one of the countries on the so-called Balkan path is, of course, not and cannot be an exception. Through our country, the path to the target countries of the European Union has led just under half a million migrants so far. That is why we are still involved in this issue every day and also active in finding the most effective solutions, not only for our country, but also for the wider part. The agenda for today's meeting of the National Assembly cannot therefore be a surprise, on the contrary, since we have spent several hours of our discussions at previous plenary meetings of the National Assembly and at meetings of working bodies on issues related to the resolution of migration issues. However, today’s agenda is not entirely normal. Not at all, because its proposal is the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, and in particular because the Commission has in some way made it clear to the Government that it is not sufficiently informing the National Assembly and its working bodies of its intentions and activities in solving the migration problem. It is correct and legitimate to discuss the security issues brought by the mass wave of migrants, but we should also discuss the humanitarian, economic and other aspects of this issue. What bothers us Social Democrats is that such a way of dealing with this topic does not give the public a real signal. It is not good if the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services publicly reminds the Government that it is not sufficiently aware of its activities in ensuring the safety and security of citizens and their property. It is equally not good that individual representatives of the Government do not respond sufficiently to the invitations and references of the Commission at which the closed doors are discussed in more detail and inform Members and Members of the security situation, individual strategies, measures and security policies planned by our country. We have repeatedly called on and reiterated the call for regular coordination of all key stakeholders contributing to the security of our country on at least the most important security issues in Slovenia. I am thinking of all those participating in the National Security Council as well as, and this is important, representatives of all parliamentary parties. In this direction, we will have to do our utmost if we are to work on key security issues in accordance with the principle of the broadest possible political consensus. Social Democrats are convinced that Slovenia is a safe country. We are aware that security is not self-evident and far from self-sustaining. As with the general public belief, we also have a high level of confidence in key stakeholders that ensure the security and property of citizens and citizens. It is not possible to overlook the good, self-sacrificing work of members of the police, the Slovenian Army, firefighters and Civil Protection and medical and rescue services, members of all humanitarian organisations, as well as all those who carry out the work of the intelligence and security nature. The work of the latter is such that it must not be seen by the public, but they form one of the key articles in ensuring security in Slovenia. Therefore, all individuals and individuals who are unselfishly helping to solve the migration problem are subject to sincere thanks. Thanks to them, today we can claim that the vast majority of the people of Slovenia on their skin have not felt the consequences of facing the great migratory wave. The fact is that thanks alone will not be enough, so it is right to listen to their appeals and needs as much as possible. Providing sufficient material incentives to all those who contribute most to the security of the country is a challenge for this government, and most likely for future governments. Perhaps even greater than the financial challenge of increased investment in security poses a challenge to the country's participation with local authorities and the population. Social Democrats are convinced that it is the task of all of us to help, to the best of our ability, to raise awareness and inform people about the migration problem. The local population must be involved and involved in cooperation and the search for optimal solutions, as this is the best possible way to eradicate the ignorance and uncertainty of people. The latter often carries fear with us, and then we are just a step away from what we least want, namely, resistance to foreigners or migrants, intolerance and ultimately hatred, which we must avoid in every way. To conclude, I will therefore repeat once again the key guidelines that we must follow as a society if we are to face the challenge of mass migration effectively. The first is about establishing effective coordination between all key stakeholders contributing to the security of the country. The second focus is on creating the best possible material conditions for all those who sacrifice themselves unselfishly daily to ensure the security of our country and to raise awareness of the local population and their actual involvement in cooperation and the search for optimal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u13	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The recommendations that we are considering today are an unexpected consequence of the proposal made by fellow Member Dr. Trček. At the meeting of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, he proposed that a special meeting of the National Assembly be convened, at which the Government would present four scenarios for the resolution of the so-called refugee crisis, which it spoke publicly about, and the National Assembly knew nothing about them. However, as is customary for this committee, something completely different has emerged from such a proposal. We wanted the Government to present four scenarios to the National Assembly in a closed session. Instead, we will not deal with any government document today, but we will again witness multiple intimidation of the public and create a feeling that we have an emergency situation in Slovenia. First of all, the representatives of the Government, the coalition and the political right will say unjustifiably for hours that they will warn against the critical security situation and frighten people that even the existence and development of our society is at stake. A little later, the military will be given police powers. The fact that there are no specificities in the field of security or even any threat to the existence of a State does not reveal any particular data, no statistics and even less the situation on the ground. As we have seen many times, the arguments for the proposed recommendations will be based again on fiction, half-truths and the promotion of hatred. That is true, even the president of the Commission acknowledged in the material, as he wrote, quote: "The vague concept of security corresponds to the political elites in enforcing their partial interests in a way that refers to unclear and chaotic security conditions." End of quote. And the very reference to imaginary and completely unfounded security concerns is the basis for all completely flawed government solutions. The political right in the public is trying to create a sense of emergency in Slovenia, a threat to the safety of citizens and citizens and the existence of our country. However, the government has included itself in this policy of intimidation. She put a cutting fence on the border with an excuse to prevent the worst. It has prepared a rigorous tightening of asylum legislation with the excuse that this is absolutely necessary, as otherwise one of the refugees will dare even apply for international protection. In a few hours, the military will grant police powers with an excuse not to allow Slovenia to become a pocket. Is there any valid reason for any of these claims? Absolutely not. Will any of the proposed measures solve the situation we are facing? Absolutely not. But governments and coalitions don't care. Caught in fear between the threats of neighbouring countries and the demands of the political right, only follows developments and responds to their proposals. When the first refugees arrived in Europe, the importance of solidarity between countries was always highlighted, the need for burden-sharing. The European Union and the Government have even highlighted that it is primarily a humanitarian crisis. Nobody talks about it anymore today. Each country is looking for all possible solutions for how to leave as many refugees as possible outside its borders and how to expel as many refugees as possible from their country. Refugees are no longer refugees, and the crisis is no longer humanitarian, and the labelling of refugees as illegal migrants, criminals and people who will destroy our culture and people has become a completely acceptable daily rhetoric. In the United Left, we don't intend to land such a discourse. There is no emergency situation in Slovenia, there is no security risk in Slovenia, and even less the existence of a country. It is still primarily a humanitarian crisis, a humanitarian crisis that we have helped to create, and instead of starting to solve problems of their origin, we are helping to create even new ones. Slovenia, together with its partners in NATO, has been destroying countries from Afghanistan to Syria for 10 years. People don't just run away from home. They're running away from home because they don't have any other options, and expecting us to stop a wave of refugees without stopping the war they're chasing is unrealistic. It is a European problem and Europe must also be a solution. Interstate competition, who will be able to stop the most refugees from their doors, will only make things worse. However, the humanitarian crisis can turn such uncoordinated and selfish measures very quickly into a humanitarian disaster. We therefore call on the government and coalition to stop frightening people and stop blindly following the demands of the right. Your main task at this time should be to reassure the public, not to participate in the intimidation and inciting of hatred, which serves as a cheap political pear to the right and only to the right. This is evidenced by Saturday’s Schenchure, where prominent political representatives of the right paraded in front of patriotic, nationalistic, xenophobic and other symbols or supported them through twitter. Think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u15	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The tactics of Slovenia in relation to the migration crisis have so far been that Slovenia is monitoring and adapting all activities. But, as always, this time also surprises Minister Erjavec, who on TV peacefully admits that Slovenia should have four different plans to act in a migrant crisis. The four plans discussed by Minister Erjavec wanted to be reached by our Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The Minister of the Interior has rejected us in cold blood if we are not responsible for this. Therefore, let me read at least Article 17 of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, which speaks in the second paragraph: 'The Government shall report to the Commission on specific activities of the supervised intelligence service which are of particular importance for national security'. In this article's explanation and comment, it speaks precisely of what the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services has asked, i.e. that the Government is familiar with these activities. Since the government doesn't want to introduce them, there are two possibilities. First of all, there are no four options at all, and Minister Karl Erjavec has been lying to us again, or secondly, that these four solutions are so shocking that even the Government does not hope to present them to the public. I don't believe in this second option, and it's unlikely. The problem we have in Slovenia is certainly a lack of information, and I agree with those who claim that the lack of information increases fear. If you look around Europe, if you look only at our northern neighbour, you will notice that there are much more open, public and nothing overly confidential when it comes to the migrant crisis. And the government should clearly open the debate and speak very openly. First of all, how many migrants Slovenia is willing to accept what our capabilities are. The ability of Slovenia is certainly not boundless. Secondly, it should be clear to people what the consequences of migrant centres will be in individual places, what this means for each place, and so Mr Šefic goes to "secret operations" across Slovenian municipalities and looks for suitable locations. I hope you understand that this raises even more fear. And the third thing we should talk about in public is how we can integrate our new guests into our society. There is virtually no debate about these things. We always get a dry-cleaning answer: "We monitor well, we're ready for everything, everything is under control." But practice always rejects that. What's the current situation? Brussels meetings always ensure that open-door policies are over, but in practice this does not happen. Since we are not the United States of Europe, as is perhaps another country over the meadow, so that the federal government or in our case the European Commission can do anything, everything is on the shoulders of the Member States. In this case, Greece's obligations as the first Schengen country and Croatia's obligations as the external borders of the European Union are also discussed in Brussels to ensure that this flow in the Balkans is halted. And you know what the sad truth is? We all talk about these things, but if we all believed in Greece and Croatia together, we wouldn't be activating Article 37a today. 37.a. Article speaks of our mistrust towards Croatia and Greece that they will actually stop the migration flow in the Balkans. And I also agree with this because I do not believe that the Croats will do anything to substantially limit the migration flow and even less the Greeks. What are the current trends even more along the way down? The data says there are currently 5,000 people waiting at the Greek-Macedonian border. These are people in no one's territory who can't keep going, but they don't want to go back, 4 thousand people are waiting in Greek ports; that's all the potential mass that will go through Slovenia. Some of you exposed Nate's surgery. I wouldn't expect too much from Nate's operation; there are three of Nate's ships in the Aegean at this point, but they have a clear mission — just surveillance and observation. NATO ships do not have the authority to refuse or block the route between Turkey and Greece. Also, according to our assessment of Turkey's expectations are too large and unrealistic. Their government representatives make it clear that these 3 billion promised by the European Union cannot do much to help each other. It is not even known whether this is a long-term contribution, whether it is a one-year contribution. Last but not least, the current migrant crisis is an excellent business for Turkey; according to NGOs, only by transporting migrants, Turkey in one way or another turns more than €2 billion a year, and I do not point out that Turkey has significant problems with the Kurds and that it does not even deal with migrants so much. In Syria, military operations are further being stepped up by a Russian offensive supporting Syrian President Al-Assad. With their offensive to Aleppo, which is the largest Syrian city, where more than 2 million people live, additional people will be forced to flee. And even if the war in Syria ends, it is only a very early start. The country will then be totally destroyed and internally divided, and there will be a long way to go. When we talk about the causes of Islamic radicalism and the emergence of the Islamic state and how to eliminate it, of course, we need to talk about the reasons for how this matter should be resolved. I think it's a good example of how radicalism ends, the second world war and the time after it; how the Nazis eliminated the allies after World War II with a long-term occupation, helped them build institutions, several generations, went into Marshall's plan, which helped them rebuild the country. Hippies and rapid interventions in the Middle East in recent decades are the real opposite. The intervention of the Russians in the 1980s created Al-Qaida and the intervention of the United States in 2003 with the Islamic State. If Slovenia has already decided to support future military operations, let us be aware that we will only support them if we are prepared for long-term engagement. Africa; a restless continent, the majority of people under the age of 25, you have correctly heard — one third of Africa practically covers areas that are not under any control or without effective authority. All this information speaks for people to run from war in the future, that will be refugees, and that people will continue to run from hopelessness, which is the economic migrants. In Slovenia for a very long time, security seemed to be self-evident, something we don't have to worry about, but things change and security costs. As a result, in New Slovenia we expect to raise the defence budget as soon as possible, together with the opposition and the coalition. However, we would like today's proposal by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services to open a debate on the fundamental issues required by the migration crisis. If so, at least in this house we must speak honestly and honestly. Certainly, the world is chaotic. We have 2 billion hungry people around the world, and unfortunately we cannot help all these people with open-door politics. We can only cause more accidents, we can get more people on the road, the most educated and most qualified ones who should establish their countries in Africa or the Middle East. And if we say bob beans, then there will be a lot clearer in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u18	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We're witnessing a new security paradigm. Migration is part of this paradigm and the threat we face is hybrid. There's a big difference between threats in the past that were military. There are now completely different threats: threats in the security, economic, cultural, sociological and ecological fields. Therefore, the answers to these threats are the mergers of all institutions. The whole society, even more, in a wider society, we need to conclude a consensus on how we will respond to these threats. The key to all threats is timely and accurate information, and this is the subject of today's meeting. There is no information on the threat. It is that the highest branches of government hide information about what is happening in reality. The point is that if the four government scenarios are presented, how and what to do, and we do not know these scenarios, on the one hand, this means that we will not be able to verify whether the Government has implemented them – whether they have been implemented well or not. We don't know because we don't know what these scenarios are. We cannot reach consensus – not consensus in the international environment, not consensus between coalition and opposition, not consensus between institutions in society, and consensus at local level, as has been seen in the past days. To sum up this first part, the government's representatives don't even go to work-body meetings and give us information. I expected to receive key information, what and how security is happening in Slovenia today. Here comes the role of the media. The media are in a very bad position today, because more or less unfair forms of work prevail, the media do not have money for investigative journalism, and thus the information is only transmitted from those who have information. Today, however, we can see that the one in power, called the Government, has a monopoly on information. And what's not in the media didn't happen. And since it hasn't happened, we don't have the right information about what's going on in the security area. Nor do people know that, so fear is aroused — fear is aroused when you do not know what is happening, and it is not good for Slovenia. In doing so, I must commend those who do most of the work on the ground. These are police, military, doctors, firefighters, civilian protection, and many volunteers. We do not know exactly what they are doing, but according to the information they attach to us, we see that they are exposed to the greatest dangers every day. And it's only right to find out more about how hard they work. The government acts reactively – depending on what happens, then we take some measures – not proactively, as it should be. I have already mentioned that we are always waiting for what Austria will do, and then we will do the same. However, we must be aware that Austria has a neighbouring Slovenia in the south and we have Croatia. And measures operating in one country simply cannot work in another country. We do not know proactively what is going to happen and what measures the country will take in the future. What will happen to the people who will stay here, what measures will they follow? What measures are being taken to prevent trafficking in human beings — because at the time of the closure of the border, human trafficking appears — what are the measures in this case? What are the measures to prevent crime that has already begun to occur? One of the measures follows in the next point. At the time of the meeting, it was initially envisaged that we should first decide to activate the powers of the military and then take a look at the security situation. I think it is only right that we first discuss the security situation, get to know the data well and then decide whether these measures are necessary. I wonder if the President of the Government believes that the situation is normal, that the state is safe, that nothing has changed, why do we have to take military action at the next point? I expected to be presented with a security situation and why these measures are necessary. I believe that the key to re-establishing Parliament is where it belongs. In Parliament, where we have appointed the Government, we expect the Government to be responsible for bringing information to Parliament so that we can make a qualitative decision. The formation of laws must be based on information provided by the Government. But we don't get this information. The role of the executive branch of power has changed and is merely directing what we must and how we must accept. Lack of information means that Parliament, as the legislative branch of power, cannot perform its functions. The point is that we don't have the right protection for those who bring the right information, either according to Whistleblowers or the protection of journalists who would publish the right information under investigative journalism. Thus, transparency in all areas is somehow neglected. We also do not have information on other threats currently affecting Europe. It is a matter of much talk about Ukraine, the influence of Russia, the output of Great Britain and so on. Thus, we do not have information concerning us and even less information about other threats in Europe, which is, of course, the task of the Government. And that's the end of my question. If all threats to cooperation and consensus are addressed, correct, accurate and timely information shall be the basis. Finally, I wonder whether the Government doesn't have this information because we haven't heard these four scenarios today, or whether it doesn't want to give them, or whether it's bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First, the proposaler has the word mags. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u20	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! Now all those who accompany this meeting of the National Assembly and have something for the country of Slovenia are probably not only fear, but fear. 'Cause what's going on? The government obviously doesn't want to give information. Thus, the government holds back information and thus creates the very atmosphere of fear and causes the radicalisation of Slovenia. Exactly what, paradoxically, the government and its coalition attribute to someone else. You're doing the same thing yourself. Because ignorance and fear contribute the most. People feel something's wrong, but they don't know what's ahead. If there was any purpose to this meeting, it was, however, that we would be familiar with at least the framework of the plans or plans the Government has to face in dealing with the migration crisis here. I guess none of this is going to happen. And that is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, such a meeting should have been a long time ago, on a proposal from the Government, not on a proposal from my commission. It should be on a proposal from the government. For the duty of the Government would be to inform at least the Parliament – and to say that, to the greatest extent possible, the public – by what it prepares, what it assesses, how it plans further moves. This is the most responsible case since independence for the state of Slovenia. You yourself said - for a democratic society, what we are proposing in the conclusions would be self-evident. But paradoxically, what has happened so far in this session is the best proof of how necessary these two conclusions are, not only to accept, but to realize themselves. And that they are always coming true, that people need to pour pure wine, that you owe people information and that you are obliged to give information to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what you are doing, forgive me, is a scandal and is also unconstitutional, because in the Constitution and in the Slovenian legal order based on the Constitution it clearly states that Parliament has a control function and within the control function has the right to know everything that is important for any area of social life, so that it can decide. Each working body shall have the right, in accordance with its rules of procedure, to obtain the information it needs for its work. This also applies, of course, to the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The executive branch of power is obliged to give them, due, ladies and gentlemen. The question is only whether to give them publicly or to place them in a closed session, while, of course, requiring all those who are aware of the information to respect the relationship of silence in a consistent manner. It's the only thing that can make a difference, not what he says, "we're not going to the session, it's not our jurisdiction, we don't care." I'm sorry, nobody needs that kind of authority. Certainly not Slovenia, because it is no longer a democracy, it is something completely different, it is an abuse of democratic institutions for some authority. What exactly is the problem? The fundamental problem, I am sure, is that such plans, as announced by Minister Erjavec, probably do not exist, but if they do exist, but it is more of a slow-growing one, and it is a bit embarrassing for the government to admit it. And that's why she doesn't want to get to know the National Assembly, let alone the working bodies. And I immediately guess what this fundamental problem is. If anyone understood the message they gave at the people's uprising in Shenchure, it was clear. We do not want any illegal migrants, we want to live safe and with respect for human rights and personal integrity. That's all there was. The slightest excess. Whoever's trying to frame these people is not even calling for violence or anything like that. [[…]] It was magnificent because it was so beautiful because it was kind of cheerful and people demanded nothing but respect for the Constitution. Those, ladies and gentlemen that you are in violation of here because you do not want to give people information and you do not want to give them at some closed session of Parliament or its working bodies. So what's the problem? Yes, in that it's obvious that people's expectations begin where these government plans are likely to end. What do you need to do? This is clear to every citizen, only to rule with our leader in Slovenia, it is not clear to European institutions that the migration flow must be cut off, that what has come is to see what the security problem, security problems can solve and enable everyone to live safely again. You know what Churchill said a long time ago? "There is only that country and that international community that can defend its borders." At the moment, therefore, after this maximum Churchill does not exist either the European Union or Slovenia, because neither one nor the other is defending its borders. Now it's just a question of how, and here the next problem opens. Timely, ladies and gentlemen, things need to be foreseen. If you'd listened to everything I've been telling you all fall and that's why I don't even want to hear more statements that we've heard a few times, even in the last few months, "oh, we're surprised." [[…]] Yes, you are surprised — after days it was announced what was going to happen, do not joke! So, it's about getting ready in time, because if you prepare in time, you don't have to cut down on less good, more radical, more violent, if you want, measures. If a fence had been set up in time, if the prison had been declared in time, if the Schengen had been consistently implemented, then half a million illegal migrants would not have been trampled across Slovenia, then the Austrians would not have put 1,500 soldiers on the border right now, then the Austrians wouldn't be building a fence there. I predicted that this would happen, you said here, "No, that's not true, because they said only 3.7 kilometers would be placed there because of this..." Yes, of course, good morning. How much back is that when we talk about it? Two months, something like that? And you're surprised again. And all of this has been published on their websites, and the military has already announced which units will be moved. Because they do it very openly. Now you're looking at how that happened. Slovenia is in an impossible situation. Do you know what we're really up against? That the European institutions are not working, or at least they are not acting soberly, if I am very diplomatic, but now I am thinking of one very specific one. But the problem is, you can't rely on them, and you can't blindly listen to what they say. We need to prepare ourselves and put ourselves in advance so that things are such that there are no harmful consequences. If we had done so from the beginning, of course, we would not have found ourselves in such a situation today, and this meeting would certainly not have been. Because if we declared when the time was, the closure of the border at the same time as Hungary, the flow would turn to somewhere else, and at least Slovenia would get rid of itself and thus buy time to prepare. Get ready for what? I keep stressing how bad it is if no information is given, and this is not only a Slovenian problem, which is now being faced by Germany, Austria and others, holding back information about what things for a month or more. The problem is that it further arouses fear, distrust of people, distrust of the institutions of the system, and then radicalizes people. And this whole situation of the migrant crisis does nothing but radicalises the electoral body towards extremes, towards those forces that will tear the European Union apart if this continues. And it will obviously be because it does not gather enough courage to make things stand as they must to defend their external borders, and if the European Union does not do so as a whole, it is necessary to put an additional line down there in Macedonia. We have already proposed this, and we have been working with the Visegraj Group. I suggested it in the context of that session here that she was. Do you believe you all voted against it?Oh, my God! And how do things change interestingly, don't they? Since the last meeting of the Strategic Security Council, however, the President of the State has already flown directly to the Czech Republic to connect Slovenia and the Visegraj Group. Exactly what you rejected in the vote, because it was one of the proposed conclusions for an extraordinary session. And it's just a waste of time, and it's all done halfway. And also, by the way, this half-life is also present today when the government said, "Yes, we support this second proposal to seek consensus, but we do not support the first proposal, i.e. comprehensive and consistent information on the security and resolution of the migrant crisis". Yes, then how will you look for consensus, good morning, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't give the relevant information first? Based on what? Based on a nice smile or what? And this half-life is always involved in solving these problems. And that's why we don't come anywhere because we get lost in empty words, instead of talking clearly about what needs to be done first. And if we were to listen in time to what was said, we would know that when we talk about these migrations, for the first time, the refugees are not here and physically they cannot be. You're a fugitive under the Geneva Convention, if anyone ever read it, in the first neighbouring country, even within the country. And look how much the European Union and Germany are at the helm, which, by the way, is guilty of this situation. When it comes to Ukraine – Ukraine is undoubtedly victims of aggression. Refugees from Ukraine have practically all of the European Union, refused almost 100% and brought them back if the western part of Ukraine is safe. No problem. But when it comes to those who come across five, six safe countries, it is said, "Oh, come on, everybody, hey, Europe will accept you all, we will solve your problems." This, of course, is no solution to problems, it is false humanism and false solidarity, which imports only problems, security problems, in some way, if you want, even war on European soil. And this must be stopped, this flow must be cut to the end, once and for all, because otherwise the European Union will be gone, I will say again. And then the problem we're facing will be completely different. Then we will not discuss how we will establish a defence line at the Macedonian border together with the Visegrad Group, and God forbid we will succeed, but we will discuss how we will only protect the state of Slovenia. But, ladies and gentlemen, do we have the capacity to do this? Do we even exist in the sense of Churchill's maximum that there is only a country that can successfully defend its borders? Do we have an effective army? Do we have enough police? Do we have all our jobs trained so that we ourselves are actually able to take care of ourselves and our safety? And if you're honest, your answer won't. Since Slovenia has saved for many years precisely in this area, it is based on the fact that peace and prosperity in Europe, like the whole of Europe, is now suddenly facing the harsh reality of the modern world, unable to deal with it, and cannot find any security answers that are truly simple. We need to send the warships down, close the borders, over. And not just on an observation mission, ladies and gentlemen. This has to be a precautionary mission. And Europe has the capacity to do that, but it has no will. And then it gets lost with completely stupid proposals, such as how we will solve the migrant crisis in cooperation with Turkey. Turkey is the source of the problem if no one knows. Turkey is thus blackmailing the European Union. But Greece holds their stand because it has a leftist government, which is a fool from all over Europe, and it wants more money because of its resentment. And you're not gonna solve this in any way. It's just that it's necessary to set things up real, to really evaluate them, to put up a line, and to defend things there, with military force. Because that's not the way it works. Also, what we are going to do today at the next item in the agenda is to reflect your awareness that you all know this, only for the public then speak differently. This is because it is possible for some institutions in the European Union to enjoy it even more if it is packaged a little. But this is not going anywhere; if this current does not break — no limit, no end — in this winter, the European Union is very likely to be gone in six months. I don't know if anyone really knows if they want to know or not. Look what's going on in Britain. In Britain, Cameron now turned the board, saying it would be for the existence of the European Union, and they jumped into his back inside his own party. He turned to the London mayor, said, "but now you're going to help us convince," he said, "no, I am absolutely for the UK to go from the European Union." And if the migrant flow continues, and everything so shows in such a strong indecisiveness that I will not say anything worse, it will continue. And believe me, it's gonna go like a domino. In many countries, even in neighbouring Austria, if you are not aware of this, they are thinking of calling a referendum on leaving the European Union. The Multi-Garden Group is practically preparing for this because the internal group is effective and this should be an example of the European Union for cooperation in the security field, in the economic field, at all. And that's why that proposal was in place like that, and at least something is working in this direction right now. What's the problem? Too late, too slow and too late. Things need to be predicted in advance. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important to inform the National Assembly in due time, that, in some way, at least in general, it is determined how it will be done and that it is to the greatest extent possible to find consensus. That was really our proposal. If we are aware that this is about false humanitarianism, about false solidarity in importing migrants, then we need to look for things to help in truth and solve the matter. And the final solution is only one – it is necessary to establish a peaceful zone where these people come from and direct all capacities for possible assistance. And that's the only thing that's economically justified. Twice. For the first time because it makes peace and security in Europe and it just normally invests, the normal economy lives again and so you have the opportunity to help anyone at all. And secondly, because for that money, when you bring one migrant into Europe and you try to integrate it here, and of course you fail because it's a question of who can integrate, and these people get themselves, because they are legitimate Muslims and you have to take into account what religion commands them. [[…]] They don't want to. You know all these tragic cases, I will not explain them again; even after two generations they live in Europe, and their daughter walks with a non-Muslim and they kill her and they consider themselves to be self-cleaning because that is their religion. And this, I'm sorry, is not compatible with Europe. And whoever knows Sharia law knows that democracy doesn't have the smallest point. This is completely incompatible. But Sharia law is an integral part of their faith, an integral part. And we should all know that once. By the fact that the key in this case, unfortunately, is not in the hall today, this is Dr. Cerar, who knows all this. For you will not believe that the examination of comparative constitutional law, including Sharia law, I have even made a book with Dr. Cerar, so that he knows what he is talking about, he knows what the problem is. The only question is why it is not going to act more decisively, because importing it into Europe is only a security problem, it is not solving the underlying problem, it is not solving the problems in Europe, but it is creating new ones. And worst of all, it threatens the existence of the entire European Union and every country within it if, of course, this is not taken into account. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, it would be so important that we are informed, directly and comprehensively, of all the things related to the migration crisis and the resolution of this crisis, without any distraction and without anything to manipulate information that some people know more than others. For here it is no longer just a question as one might imagine, a little left, a little right, or a solution in one way or another. This is actually the European Union's existence, and thus the continuation of the fate of the country of Slovenia, which, in the event of countries starting to secession from the European Union and actually falling apart, and in part already faced with it – because the Schengen is dead, it can be said thousands of times that it is not, and we are cut off by the Austrians from the Schengen area – that Slovenia will have to worry about itself. And once again I ask you: is anyone in this Chamber who believes that at this moment Slovenia is capable of living through its military, police and other security capabilities in the face of such a challenge as the migrant crisis itself? Let him raise his hand. Thanks for not picking up. At least after that, I see you're realistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u21	Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings from the President of the National Assembly, my fellow Members and Members of Parliament! It is certainly agreed that we are all interested and want to safeguard the interests of citizens of Slovenia, and this is to ensure security for all citizens. I don't think there's any dispute about that. And all the measures taken so far by the Government have made it possible for our citizens to be safe. And not only our citizens, but also these unfortunates, among them, are the unfortunates who are fleeing the war in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan. It is true, however, that some criminal associations also join this wave in those who do not actually run from war, but want some of the benefits that the EU offers. It's mostly about economic migrants. I can only ensure that the government continues to do such work to ensure security for everyone. I am sure that our police, including the Slovenian Army, have also shown in their work so far that it is capable of doing so. And I think that the situation 25 years ago is completely different from today's situation. At that time, we were threatened with tanks, armored guns, machine guns, but when we look at migrants, of course we don't see tanks, armored men, and this threat is not adequate for that threat 25 years ago. I am convinced that our police, our Slovenian Army and all other services are in line with this challenge. This has also been shown by the results so far. I've been mentioned several times to talk about four plans. Let me say that in the Tarč show I talked about the four scenarios that we have prepared and that we are actually already implementing. One of these is that today, the National Assembly, I hope, will decide to give the Slovenian Army additional powers in order to be able to carry out more effectively with the migration crisis. I think that what was also said by the proposaler is indeed a threat to the existence of the EU. It is at risk if each country solves the migration crisis in its own way. That is why Slovenia and also the President of the Government, as well as all ministers in Brussels, are committed to a single European migration policy. I'm afraid that's not what we're getting at. There are different interests, different views. Germany is betting on an agreement between the EU and Turkey. Many do not believe that this agreement can solve the migration crisis. Some see a solution in the initiative of our Prime Minister, and you say that you have proposed something similar since last year. I am glad that we have essentially the same perspective on how to deal with the migration crisis. But it's true that time is also a component. And, of course, we need to adapt the individual measures in the light of the current situation. I am sure that if we put technical barriers on the southern border last year, the Slovenian public and everyone, the professional public, would be bitter. I would say what Slovenia is doing, setting some internal borders, and we are talking about the EU, that it must not fail the EU. Therefore, individual measures also need to be adjusted according to the time situation and also according to the situation. Unfortunately, we all find that the war in Syria will not be over soon. We all find that this will be a long process. It is also true that many young people are waiting in Africa to come to Europe. They want a better future and see it in Europe. We can say that we are in some way privileged to live on this continent where everyone wants to live and see their future. However, it is also fair to say that the Schengen regime is not adapted to such situations, as at the time of the economic, financial, banking crisis, we have identified a number of shortcomings in European Union regulation, as is said in the legal order of the European Union. And so it was necessary to upgrade with a banking union, a monetary union, not to explain further. And I am sure that if we want a strong Europe, if we want a European Union to exist, the Schengen system will also need to be upgraded. As far as Slovenia is concerned; I said that we have already initiated certain measures are being implemented. Today we will adopt the so-called Article 37a of the Defence Act. The Minister has made it very clear here today that only those migrants who are actually fleeing the war, who meet the conditions for international refuge, will be allowed entry, so that Slovenia implements measures in accordance with what is agreed in Brussels. We do not want to overreact and then be the target of criticism by the whole of the European Union. We see the debate on Austria's visa of measures, and I assure you that there is no fear at this time that Slovenia will become a migrant pocket. All the numbers, all the data shows it's not like that. Of course, there is no need for caution and, in some way, we can be satisfied that today we have this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss what the next steps will be if we do not come to some common European solution, what Slovenia will do, but not to the detriment of breaking down the Schengen and threatening the existence of the European Union, because we know that Slovenia is part of the Schengen. I recall the debate from the previous meeting, the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, when we considered whether Slovenia is still in Schengen, whether we are going to have a mini-schengen I am glad that we do not have this debate today. [[…]] That is why once again – we can talk about false humanitarianism, but certainly in this migratory wave there are also people who are humanitarianly threatened, where they come from areas where war is raging. And every day you can watch on TV what's going on there, what's going on, how cruel this is, and how happy we are that it's not happening in Europe. This has happened in the past and I hope it will not happen in the future. I think that it is necessary to be patient, that certain measures should be implemented wisely. Because it is easy to close the border, but I tell you that the economists, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia will immediately warn you of what prison means. I can tell you from the interviews I have with some foreign ministers that, say, when Denmark has closed the border with Germany for a while, the damage is estimated at millions of dollars a day. Therefore, these measures need to be balanced in the light of the situation itself. I am sure that both the economists and we citizens do not want a prison of borders, and therefore these measures need to be dealt with in a very sensitive and very prudent manner. Because if a mistake is made here, then of course we can only regret it. Once again, I think it would be very irresponsible on the part of the government not to have prepared scenarios, as I said. You're ready. And I also think that the National Security Council, where there is also a representative of the opposition, is the right place to agree on how and when to proceed with individual measures. Once again, I would like to stress – look, the situation is under control. To date, no one has been harmed, not by any Slovenian citizen or migrant, to anyone. It is true, however, that we are careful to note possible shortcomings, because we are dealing with some new situations where we do not have experience yet, and that is why such a debate is also welcome in Parliament. I do not understand these discussions in terms of collecting political points, because here is our common interest, and this is how to ensure security for Slovenian citizens and for all who live or are located in the territory of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Here you go, proposer, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u24	What I ask myself after this performance by Mr Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is whether the Government is aware of the moment it is in. Because in view of the debate that has been given, this government is incredibly reminded of the one who is all drawn up on the roof of a 25-story hotel, falling down, and then on the 2nd floor, flying toward the concrete sidewalk, saying, "It was all great and safe here, only to keep it that way." Because circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, have changed dramatically if you haven't noticed. What's the problem is that the wave is stuck and turned. Now there will be no more "illegal migrant express" as he ran across Slovenia for a few months and from which we have warned so much, because now he will return as a boomerang, things are turning. And what happens? They will come back to us — and individual cases are already, and believe that there will be more — those that no one else will want to accept. But you must know that all living things have been mixed up in this migratory stream. Secret services warn that migrants between 3 000 500 and 10,000 former ISIS fighters and Al-Qaeda-related terrorists have arrived in Europe. Even if the lowest number is the law – 3 000 500, it is a giant, it is a security risk that probably no one among you imagines. In such a number, all services are cancelled because the number of objectives cannot be followed and it is therefore impossible to provide real security under such circumstances. This sin has already been committed, this is already the present state, whatever it may be. And what does that mean for Slovenia? We'll be getting back to those who won't be accepted elsewhere. And that's what's happening. And of course these are the most problematic cases, that's not what you'd like to choose or I don't know what. But what no one wants is left here, and they're going to push us, or some "good" neighbor – I'm going to let go of who I mean – he's going to take him back to the next corner, and he's going to drop him there, and he's going to say, "Look, go over the road here or go over the water here, and over there is Slovenia." And in the end, we will be faced with a tremendous amount of such problems that they will not want to be with us, that we will not be able to return to the countries from which they came, because they will not want to be accepted, that we will not be able to return to their home countries, because they will not want to accept them, and that will pose a very serious security risk. For these will be the people who are offended, who have seen from the experience of migrants, that in this naive Europe you will achieve incredibly much by violence; a little cry, 'Give, I will not know what', and open all the doors, and there is no more checking, it goes wherever you want. This is their experience, and they will continue to expect it and will want to enforce it, even with force, if necessary. And so now to say, 'up until now everything has been fine, but from here on it will be,' is, of course, terribly naive or blinding the eyes before the real situation. Problems are now beginning, but they are not due to this moment, but they are caused by mistreatment in the past few months. With what I have so argued before – that it is necessary to take a timely look at what is happening, that it is necessary to protect itself first, that borders should be consistently closed long ago and implement consistently Schengen without exceptions and the law for all the same in the whole territory of the country of Slovenia, there would not be all these problems. Now they're gonna start to accumulate, and now the real problems are coming. And you all know that. And this cannot be prevented; even if the current is now cut off, there will still be this return flow due to the cleansing, because of all the complications that have been. However, the readiness for solidarity and mutual assistance of neighbouring countries is, of course, close to zero or already zero. There is no need to rely on any agreement with any neighbor anymore. You've been surprised and disappointed so many times already. But unfortunately, the situation in Europe is such that today you can only rely on yourself, that the Austrians know very well. Why do you think the Austrians are now humming at German threats and starting to close borders on every side? Because they thought they had enough problems because they saw their situation explode. And there is no need for Slovenia to get into this situation. I mean, those basic sins have already been committed, and the problems you caused by misbehavior will now come here. It would be time, however, for things to stand up like this, an extreme time to prevent further complications. And therefore it would be so important to discuss this honestly – how to protect borders, how to cut migration flows, how to achieve a consistent implementation of all Schengen and other provisions throughout the territory of the State of Slovenia, and how to then enforce it against its neighbours, headed by Austria and Italy, of course, that the borders are released again and that we can function again as once again, if possible. Because you have heard a warning before, which is less public, and therefore should raise the fear that Germany itself has proposed to become internal borders and internal controls within the Schengen area permanent. This practically means that the European Union, as we have known it, is gone. The result, if you don't mean here in advance, what you're doing, then of course, is improvisation. And in this case there is no room for improvisation, security should never be left to improvise, but it should be the fruit of a common search for optimal solutions and the broadest social consensus. Only such a country can provide security and prosperity and have a long-term opportunity for its existence and, of course, for its advancement.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. First, we need to clarify some things that have been misspoken at today’s meeting. That is, we are not getting anyone back who, according to Mr Grims, would be in a category that no one likes; in fact, there is a rejection at the Austrian border, which our police are saving with the Austrian security authorities. I also cannot agree with the claim that there is a lack of communication between the Government and the National Assembly. In fact, the police and the Ministry of the Interior have already responded to 39 questions already being sent on the issue of migration flows, at all the meetings of the National Assembly and also the meetings of the Committee on Home Affairs which have been held on the subject. I think that the Government has also reported in these ways to the National Assembly, so that the lack of information is certainly not a problem in this current situation. I must also draw attention to the misuse of concepts that do not actually exclude or serve a completely different purpose between themselves. Indeed, solidarity has nothing to do with Article 5 of the Schengen Code governing humanitarian entry. Solidarity within the European Union is intended for a relocation in which Slovenia will also participate, and the relocation, we know, is intended to redistribute applicants for international protection from the most heavily burdened countries, and I believe that you are also well aware of this. I think it is right to continue where the Minister for Foreign Affairs ended up, which he said very well also in the context of one broader dimension of this extremely complex problem. Last but not least, there are a large number of meetings held on the subject of the migration crisis. I think he made it very clear in the following one of the infertile discourses at the beginning of today's meeting, when we talked about plans, scenarios and so on – in fact, it is the fact that Slovenia has been taking step-by-step measures to control the migration crisis, to protect the Schengen border and to control the migration flow, which in any case is intended to deter and manage irregular migration. As you have been informed, in recent times – not to repeat, because we have talked a lot about this at press conferences as well as in part in the introduction of today's presentation – Slovenia is, of course, deepening or radically narrowing the conditions for humanitarian entry, and we will continue to do so. Of course, it should also be stressed that parallel efforts are still under way at the Macedonian border, which is also very important for Slovenia, because Macedonia is somehow the first selector according to the criteria set out. And in no way will Slovenia, as I said in the introduction, give in to the implementation of the Schengen acquis, and if necessary, we will rely even more on our sovereignty. Other countries such as Slovenia are also implementing measures in terms of tightening control. I think it is clear from all that we have done in recent months that Slovenia is very clearly holding its thread, it is stepping up measures. However, the basic concept is the same, i.e. respect for the Schengen acquis, reduction of the number of migrants on the Western Balkan route, protection of the state border, which is also part of the Schengen border. In short, we want to achieve, even with our country's efforts to achieve coordinated action, i.e. all countries, Slovenia is not alone on the Western Balkan path to get to the active hotspots in Greece. Because if countries, i.e. all countries on the Western Balkan route, take their part in taking responsibility and do what they have to do in accordance with European legislation, then Slovenia will not have to interfere with the most radical measures already defined by the Foreign Minister in the outline. In short, the Government is also familiar with the plans and activities of the competent authorities. I think that we have faced various situations quickly and effectively, because the situation is actually changing daily and we are facing it very successfully. These situations have arisen either because of the lack of joint European solutions – because, after all, I think that we agree that this is a European problem, this is not just a problem for Slovenia – and, on the other hand, because of the unilateral moves of countries that are being tangulated in any way by migration flows. In short, the government is stepping up its actions, as has been pointed out several times today. And, as it is said, if countries do what they have to do, because, after all, without the coordinated conduct and common behaviour of the countries on the road, the situation will be much more difficult. [[...]] However, Croatia is also essential to us. I also had a meeting with the Croatian Minister of the Interior today. At this point, I estimate that there are conditions, at least on the basis of what has been said today, for good cooperation for Croatia. I also made it clear to him that Croatia must play its role, that it must implement European legislation and also take on its share of responsibility. I certainly don't agree with what's been happening over the past few months, so we're too late. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also vividly described the complexity of this situation. And once again, I hope that the last time – it fences on our border, so that Slovenia will be around and around. We know that this would have a very serious impact on Slovenia, especially if we did so in the way the opposition proposes at the beginning of last year. Since, after all, this would be extremely damaging for our country in economic, cultural and all other ways, it would break ties with neighbouring countries. In short, the state would be in economic isolation, which, after all, I don't think is the intention of anyone. It is also important to be aware of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in his introductory work – the EU's supply does not depend on our border or on the fence on our border, but on many more complex reasons, such as: the situation in Turkey, the military operation in Syria, whether Turkey will limit the flow, that is, whether all the agreements that the European Union is working for will work for. Not least since NATO's operation in the Aegean Sea, Frontex in Greece, after all, the conduct of transit countries, that is to say, the countries ahead of us, who must start to protect their borders in a qualitative manner. And even in some ways, this is also a key play that these people have when they decide to go to Europe. And the purpose of all these measures, which are taken both in Slovenia and beyond, is also to provide some sort of dissuasive effect, because this is essential, because I think we all agree that the number of migrants on the Western Balkan route, as well as on other routes, because this is not the only one, must be reduced. Today there was also talk about accommodation centers. I think we have explained a lot in the past days, but I think it is extremely important at this point to make it clear, or to explain it to people, what is actually the need for accommodation capacity. The consequences or needs for these capacities are precisely in the measures taken by the Government to control or reduce migration flows, for the purpose of limiting, stopping, regulating migration flows, for border control, for the sake of responsibility, for the sake of limited capacity, for security and, last but not least, for humanitarian treatment. And I think that here the arguments in this story – anyone who at least has a little follow-up to this situation, which is extremely complex, I think he understands – that we do not want them not to belong to us, "stop them, expel them", are not arguments that can constructively contribute to solving this situation, but only contribute to the intolerance, separation of our people and actually to the uproar of our people. In fact, here I do not intend to go into the analysis of the attempt at personal discrediting of certain people in extremely responsible places, because I do not think that this belongs to any political space at all. As far as action is concerned, I have already explained the basic principle in the introduction. Thus, Slovenia has joined the stricter or more consistent implementation of the Schengen, of course, by narrowing the criteria for humanitarian entry. So Slovenia is radically lowering the criteria for humanitarian entry. This entry is carried out for each individual, i.e. individual treatment on the basis of very clear criteria, which are also consistently implemented. We have also reported much about this in recent times; in short, there is no mass entry. Those who do not meet the conditions are, of course, refused to comply with all those international obligations which bind Slovenia as a civilized country. I think that this is the only way out, despite Germany's still predicting that it wants to have an open door, but Slovenia is here in an extremely difficult position because there are still Austrian doors, which are somehow not as open as they have been in the past. And we also make appropriate adjustments or proactive moves. The aim in any case is, as Minister Erjavec has already said, and as we have already reported at press conferences, where a good picture of the situation was given by the State Secretary, Boštjan Šefic, in order to prevent accumulation, i.e. pocket. There are two ways in fact: whether we will regulate, and here we need coordinated action and cooperation from all countries, or whether we will fall back into the situation when countries drive to our borders, illegal crossings will increase and so on. So the first alternative is definitely Slovenia's participation in coordination, and I think that the responses of some countries to the south of us are significantly better than they have been in the past, which is certainly due to Slovenia. Therefore, it is essential to agree on how to ensure the operation of the Schengen area while limiting entry to third-country nationals who do not need international protection and exploit migration flows for other purposes. To this end, the European Commission has finally identified itself, including at our initiative, and we have also put a great deal of pressure on us to speak openly about these things in the highest political circles in the European Union. In short, the goal is to lower the numbers, the common criteria, that is, the one on the Macedonian border, which is also the first selector, so that there will be no rejection at the borders on the way to Slovenia, given that this also encourages tensions between countries. In short, as I said in the introduction, Slovenia will not give up in implementing the Schengen legislation, nor will it. Even more acute will be profiled by those who come and will be even more closely monitored than ever before. We also talked about the Slovenian Army. Of course, the Slovenian Army is already involved. It is also proposed, and this will also be under item 2 of today's session to activate Article 37a. The primary task of the Slovenian Armed Forces will, of course, be to cooperate in protecting the green border due to the expected increase in classical illegal migration at the green border. This will also, of course, burden the police with rejection at border crossings, and I must say that in the past periods, cooperation between the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian police has been extremely quality and I am sure that it will be so in the future. As far as government action is concerned, I think it is clear and also responsible that the Government has reacted reasonably in the past periods, responding in a timely and, above all, optimal manner. All measures are, of course, aimed at protecting the southern Schengen border or regulating or halting migration flows. If you remember, Slovenia was, in fact, one of the first countries to start, despite its smallness, to stop this migration flow. But it is true, as has already been said today, that the European Union's rules are not adapted to the mass migration flow and not to the mixed migration flow, which is, after all, the basic EU concept, namely, the issue of solidarity and the question of humanitarianism. Slovenia has undoubtedly proved itself in the field of humanitarianism as regards the treatment of these people who have come to us, and the decision on reallocation is also a reflection of our country's European orientation. However, it should be pointed out here that this is not the answer to the problem facing the Western Balkan route. The answer to this question is also not unrealistic idealism. Indeed, it must be borne in mind that, as such, Slovenia or Europe cannot solve all the problems of the Middle East, Africa and possibly any other crisis area. Just as unrealistic idealism does not help, it does not help, or it is a particularly harmful rhetoric of the extreme right, which feeds on the fear of misinformation, which also somehow frightens people and gives them the fundamental structural element of their stay, and this is a sense of security. As has been said several times, and the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also said, there is no European solution for groups, so the best approach is to such a solution, which is necessary in view of the fact that it is a European problem, coordinated measures, taking into account, of course, international conventions governing refugee law. Following an example already shown in some way by Slovenia and Austria, when we also discussed and negotiated with our colleague the Ministry of the Interior for time and content-coordinated measures, we also reported on this at a press conference, with Slovenia taking part in determining the criteria by which the countries of the south should also work and, in the first place, Macedonia. In short, Slovenia has not done anything throughout this migration flow that could constitute a legitimate basis for any country's decision north of us or anywhere with regard to the decision to reinstate temporary controls at internal borders, on the contrary. And that these borders are being set or that internal borders are being placed within a space that is supposed to be known as the Schengen area, this is actually a reflection of the frustration of these countries because of the non-responsibility of European institutions, because of the suspension of Greece, which is also an entry point in the European Union. The fact is that Greece has a difficult position is burdened, but it has not done enough by now and will have to do more in future periods, which will then also contribute to the problem being smaller for all. However, the fact is that internal borders are not a solution, as evidenced by the fact that migrants are still coming to target countries, despite the fact that these internal borders are in place, and the price for this is paid by the free movement of persons and goods as an essential element of European integration, which is even more important for a small country such as Slovenia. The European Union has already in some way signaled that those who obviously need international protection cannot uncontrolledly enter the European Union to be rejected. The key question at this point is where this will happen or where all those measures will be mainly implemented in order to achieve this objective. Of course, I think we agree that it would be ideal for this to be carried out consistently at the points of entry into the European Union, which is also my position from the outset, i.e. from the assumption of the mandate of Italy-Greece, which is also logical. And finally, on the migrant side, it would not create illegal expectations, so that the doors are open and, on the other hand, they are returned to their countries of origin and so on. As I said, Greece is in a difficult position, but I do not think it has done its job yet, while Slovenia has done its job and will do it in the future. The second line of defence, if I may also take the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, is the Macedonian-Greek border, and here is an extremely important initiative presented by the Prime Minister of the Government. At this point, I think that this solution is one of those that is most concrete, most tangible, and also recognized by the leaders of other European countries. What is even more important, however, is that this solution is actually complementary, so that it does not oppose attempts to find a European solution with Turkey, but at the same time complements the solidarity mechanism within the EU, which is called an official relocation. Of course, another limit that is actually ahead of our external Schengen border needs to be considered. This is the Croatian-Serbian border. Croatia has an obligation to protect the EU's external border, and I have also made this clear to my colleague, the Croatian Minister of Interior today, and several times. This is extremely important because it's not just that. This is actually the EU's policy of managing the EU's external borders, which is linked to some key instruments, such as the Schengen Information System, such as Frontex Border Agency and so on. And it is these institutes that are under great pressure today because of the migrant crisis. However, this is essential, and it is also important on the link between Slovenia and Croatia – protecting the external border or jointly managing effectively with the EU's external borders is, in fact, a prerequisite for the normal smooth functioning of the Schengen area. And this inefficient protection of external borders is actually the reason that Schengen is on trial today. Schengen is not on trial because of the conduct of Slovenia, which I have also stressed several times in previous meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u28	So if there's anything unacceptable about what you said, that initial introductory part was how it should bother someone and I don't know what. Wait, who's paying for this? This is paid by Slovenian taxpayers. Even if you get half the money that has now been released from the EU, it is still half the money from taxpayers' pockets. The fact that this is not the biggest cost must be made very clear. The maximum cost is indirect economic and direct economic damage. That's what weighs. This not only burdens Slovenia, but, of course, we cannot save all of Europe, but we must protect ourselves. This is said to be true if some Slovenian taxpayers pay, they have all the rights to perform all the relevant data, how their money is spent, and that they also influence it. Second, when something was said about solidarity. With all due respect, Madam Minister, but some of us who were in front of Baumax on Saturday, in the past we have been raising money ourselves and helping to help the refugees in the Middle East. But that was help, because help is effective there. Importing this is, however, the import of security problems and the dreadfully expensive payment of some false solidarity. For the cost, I say again, for every migrant here, for his socialization and so forth, is so great in one year that for the same money two families would survive in the east, when all the indirect costs that I have been talking about all the time. This is said, once again, this false solidarity will have major consequences: the consequences of the collapse possible for the EU, the problems of limitation, economic damage and, of course, security threats. The second time you said who was coming to us right now. Yes, some also refuse and then stay here and ask questions and now suddenly apply for asylum. In international law, even one expression of this work is known. It's called shopping asylum. If I don't have a war there, I'll go there. But you will not believe that under international rules, then the state has the right not to treat it at all, but to transport it nicely. And I would politely ask you to stick to international law once, at least when Slovenia is in favour. But the third thing is, when you said, "we plan everything well and plan ahead." With all due respect, Madam Minister, but if that were true, then the government would not now be reminding us of a coward who wants the cowardly eggs of migrants, once you go there, once you go there, once again, and if you wanted the latest – if you had everything planned in advance, your Secretary of State, Mr. Šefic, would not be present at the Kranj Municipality today and ask if they could settle migrants in a student's home. [[…]] Specially, though, it is strange, given the clear message given just two days ago before Baumax, that we should save migrants differently, that we do not need any migrants in Slovenia, and that if we want to help, let us help where the aid is real and effective, which is the source of the problems. Everything else must go towards the protection, safety and well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens. This is the basic task of the government, this is a fundamental task of the state. And over the right of people to personal security, to a consistent respect for personal dignity, to respect the human rights of every citizen and every citizen, there is no right of a foreigner and no right of any foreign community, and the European Union should be put on the table if it so wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Those politicians who are trying to be realistic, responsible at this time are, of course, called demagog on some sides. At least that's how I was last Friday, when a colleague told me that because I painted a picture of this problem after I saw it, I was called a demagog, unlike some who know everything about how to solve it. Earlier, Brane said that he was glad that there was someone else in this room who was a realist politician because he did not nod or nod, which is not important at this time. The real assessment is that Europe has been facing a major crisis for a second time in a few years. For the first time, it has been faced with a financial crisis, now facing a migrant crisis that is significantly more difficult than a financial crisis, for two reasons: the financial crisis can be solved by paper, by law, by numbers, by erasures, while the migrant crisis cannot be solved simply because people cannot simply be erased from the face of this world, but things need to be resolved in some way. The only common point of these two crises is that I should not be offended by my colleagues on the right; this is my view — that this Europe has been leading the so-called right for many years. Earlier, Barroso was the head of the commission who simply did not have a solution to the financial crisis, now Mr Juncker is the one with a kind of scissors and canvas. But we see that Europe is handicapped in this case, because whatever is agreed in those beautiful conference halls of politics when politicians get on a plane and go towards home, they face real and difficult problems and they are dealt with individually, because there is no easy solution. That is why I do not pretend that the right hand in this case will not take advantage of this migrant crisis, even though Karl Erjavec said that is not the case, to raise political points. That's exactly what he's doing. The European right, and I will not say extreme, but at the expense of this migrant crisis, they are still working to support themselves in their home countries. Then we have an extreme left, but the world sees a more pink and more ideal, which is far from it. We have seen how the financial crisis has been resolved, and the future leader of Cyprus has not been able to solve the financial crisis in his own way, and so has this extreme left-wing situation. I must say that, if anything, I would not like to be Györköseva and Katič's Erjavec at this time, because as hard a task or as hard a task as these three ministers have in solving this migratory crisis, I do not think that in history, except at the beginning of the independence, ministers have so far. On the one hand, Brane and his team would have closed down all the borders unwaveringly, forgetting that the country must still function differently, not only on a security issue – not only the economy, economic policy, geostrategic matters must function normally – and on the other hand, we have a different side where we want to open these things in some way, regardless of the outcome, whatever it may be. I've been saying this for over a month. I think the state of Slovenia has done a great job. At that time, we did not suffer any harm, except as I have said, three, four congregations that were at the points when people came to the country and Šentilja, where they went from that country, or 99.9% of Slovenes and Slovenes, if there were no policies to encourage it, they would not even know that the migrant crisis exists. And it is right that the state reacts in a manner that is tactful. If you remember, Austria was very humanitarian about a month and a half ago. But when she saw that she was gone, she somehow pulled her things out, just as she pulled them out, and we are doing the same right thing today. By not doing what the Austrians have done and what the Germans are doing today, when they're just asking in some way, I'm going to say, migrants, whether they're coming, I'm going to say, from the Syrian territory, from Afghanistan or from those areas that aren't occupied in some way by war. And don't mind – a year ago if someone said something over Angela Merkel on this side, on the right hand side in some way, and New Slovenia and also SDS, which was Angela Merkel for them in some way, would say that we are crazy, that we don't know European politics and so on. But the situation is just crazy, you don't know who's drinking and who's paying. And this is how Europe reacts. That's why I think when we have these two recommendations ahead of us, I think there's only one thing that the state or the government has done wrong, and that's what I would have done differently. The President of the Government, despite the abundance of work, could have a meeting once a month for me in this crisis with all the parliamentary parties, in particular with the Presidents of the parliamentary parties, where it would somehow be reported, talked, exchanged views and would not be, I will say, as now, because, in fact, the right hand is also taking advantage of this migratory crisis in order to reach political points. But it's not just Slovenia, it's all over Europe. I will, because we have tabled an amendment to the first decision because the only problem is that the two conclusions were now connected, and it was also so made that only the two conclusions could be voted on, we have made an amendment, where we say that if we want the first decision to be as written as in your recommendation, we should adopt it, so we have given it as an amendment. [[…]] And by doing so, we will be able to reject the first decision, and the second conclusion will be absolutely, absolutely supported. Of course, we call on the President of the Government and propose, and the President himself himself, that these meetings may be convened a little more, at this informal work with the presidents of all parliamentary parties. But even if the President does, and I believe he will, we will not avoid these political overtures because democracy is such, one wins, one loses. In this case, of course, anything we do on this side of the government will, of course, be criticised by the opposition. Now, just a sentence about Saturday's, this political meeting of yours. Why did I say political meeting? It's the easiest thing to sow fear among people. Some of us have been in politics for so long that we know that there are buses, that we know that there are preparations for such a rally. Of course, this meeting did not come about by chance with a call, and last but not least on Friday, Andrei called on the Defence Committee to attend this meeting. Once again, I don't have any problems, I don't have any problems, let's just publicly admit that this exploitation is for political purposes, which is no problem, the problem is that you probably have some posters too, at least because I believe in most of you, I know most of you, with some writings on these posters you can't agree with. But if you're there, you take responsibility for the text on that poster. Well, Bran, I don't think you agree with these records. No problem if you say, "Erjavec down, Györkösevo down, Katič's down" and so on, these are political flags. But where it comes from calling for impatience to lynch, I believe that you are so well-intentioned that you disagree with such calls. But when you encourage people that everything is allowed, it's dangerous. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to support the second decision, and I'm going to support the amendment. And I think that all three ministers - I will not say - have done a great job, I cannot say that - have acted reasonably and responsibly in these months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Dolinshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u32	Thank you, President, for your word. A nice welcome to all of you, to all the ministers present, to the ministers and to all of us here. We listen many times, we hear, and many times we will hear that security is not self-evident. When we talk about security, we usually think about the police and then the Slovenian Army. I must say that today has also been said and mentioned by the Slovenian Army, but I would like to say that, especially in the last period, so much has been said, 'the police are not capable, there is nothing with her, the army' and so on; I think we have gone too far to exaggerate. And I'm a former member, or I'm saying that the Territorial Defense isn't all that bad. No, there are problems in the Slovenian Army, but not that this would affect, as we once said, the competence and readiness to carry out the tasks for which the Slovenian Army is called, as well as the Slovenian police. Since last September this loving migration issue has started to revolve, we have all been faced, we are taking various contributions to the media every day, and we can give if it is, or we can look back at how much police work has been done, of course, in the first place, and also on the part of the Slovenian Army. [[Incomprehensible]] I am confident that today we will allow the Slovenian Army to exercise further certain powers, to help the Slovenian police even more and to be in a state which has been shown so far, to the extent of any different unpopular receptions or any situation that may occur. When we talk about migration issues and related actions, it is only right that we are concerned, because it is first and foremost about the security of our citizens and citizens, whom we are primarily obliged to take care of, the country. So do we who are elected by the citizens. In all security aspects, ensure the highest possible level of human security and property. The problem of migration is facing Europe and beyond, so that we can close our eyes so that there are no problems Yes, Slovenia is an integral part of Europe, we are facing in Slovenia, facing Europe. [[…]] Every day we witness talking, talking, saving, and so on. That this is a complex question, I think we are all united, because it cannot be ensured, even if I speak for Slovenia, by means of individual segments or by the participation of only one part of the resources and services of the executive branch. As for information, information by the media, whether it is real information, and another question is asked here. There is too much tendency to write, unrealistic, incorrect reporting and so on, and I think we are witnessing daily to the key messages of the executive that face this issue daily and first. In fact, I would say this: to the extent that there is no detection for the protection of the interests of the State. It must be understood that all things cannot be revealed. Only if I recall going back to the time of our independence in 1991, but I would like to go back a year or so earlier, and especially in 1990, when preparations were being made for our own self-sustainment war and the process of securing our independence, and I would like to remind you of the project of the Manevska structure of national protection. If this project of the Manevre National Protection Structure were to inform anyone who was involved in this project every day, we know in what secrecy this has been prepared, and that is why it has been successful. [[…]] All I'm saying is that all you have to do is separate the part that's meant to be done, from the part that's not appropriate, and what the law can only dictate. Therefore, I must say that I understand the concern and the tendency to give as much attention as possible to security by my colleagues in the SDS, so that we pay even more attention to it. I am sure that today's assembly, an extraordinary meeting, is that it is good to get together, to talk about it, and that there will also be a certain conclusion, I would say, also give everyone the thought that real security is never enough. If I go to the proposals for recommendations, which is the commission or we have accepted, I have not supported myself, but I have no problem. I will explain the first proposal to recommend what I said earlier in the debate that I have problems supporting it simply because it is recommended to the Government in relation to plans to keep the National Assembly informed of all the moves and plans. Like I said before, everything is really not appropriate, because this could only be imposed by law. Because we just need to know that all the tactics, now I'm going to call tactics, and it's not appropriate, because on the other hand, we know that information is liquid, flowable, even if we're talking about thousands of kilometers where it all comes from. [[…]] As for the second part of the recommendation, I have no problem and will personally support the development of solutions to fundamental security issues in the broadest consensus of all political institutions. Inside we have the responsibility to act wisely, for to be honest, so far there have been some major problems with this problem, thank God. But we can't say there won't be any tomorrow. I think we can tell citizens that it is properly taken care of for the safety of all, and there is no need to be intimidated by some minor fears, that I do not know what is, the threat to what degree. But it is up to all of us to take care of even greater human security and property in the future. All the measures that have been taken so far, I believe they have had a meaning. Too late on the other side we've heard many times that they're meaningless, that there's nothing wrong. [[...]] However, the Government of Mira Cerar has acted and carried out as we have seen. But it's true, we have to look at the whole thing, not look too narrow. As we have heard before, I think that my predecessor, Mr Han, has mentioned this, so if we had already closed the door at the borders, the economy would have cried first if we were going to last summer. It has already said, with certain measures that occurred in the autumn that suffered damage. We just have to have one measure. All at the right time, I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Ministers! First of all, I'd like to supplement or repair my valuable colleague, Matjaž Han. However, it is necessary to know that Juncker is from the European People's Party, but he is not the European People's Party that has the majority. We know that we are in coalition with the socialists, that is to say with you on the European floor, that at present the Socialists have one more government in Europe than the European People's Party. Even the European Commission, without socialists and liberals being around the European People's Party, but I have no problem criticising Angela Merkel, I have no problem criticising Juncker. [[…]] [[...]] As President Janša said earlier, I am of the same opinion. I have very much believed in this EU, but it is also becoming a disabled organisation such as the United Nations. In short, a year and a half has been talking about it, and there are no measures yet. And then it's funny when you watch President Juncker's press conference last week and he says that this crisis is because there is a lack of action at European level. He has apparently forgotten that he is leading the EU. Perhaps I would be offended by the comments of the foreign minister, who worried me, but I am not surprised, because if this is the concept of perception of this crisis, as the Minister has said, then I am not surprised that the situation is as it is. And this crisis was compared somehow to 1991, that it was uncomparable in this sense, because then we were attacked by the military, then they were thin, then they were planes, and in this part I agree with the minister. This isn't about direct warfare, but I think it's a hybrid war. The hybrid war on the one side of Putin, on the other hand, is now seeing more and more Turkish President Erdogan. And in this hybrid war, it's hard to determine the opponent. In 1991, we knew who the enemy was, they knew the danger we were facing, we could defend ourselves, we successfully defended ourselves. And here we have hundreds of thousands, millions of people going to Europe, among them terrorists, and we're letting them go. In short, it's a serious threat, it's a threat caused by some hybrid warfare, and yet we're not doing anything. The minister said that if we started, as we suggested, with Hungary, setting up a fence already in July to make it too early, "what would people say?" This just proves that the government is following public opinion more and is afraid of what people would say, rather than in due time starting to introduce those measures as they were needed at the time, which we see being introduced after six months or more. If you were then concerned about what people would say, let them worry you now; not what people would say, but say – in Kidric, in Shenchure. By the way, what Matjaž said was not a political meeting. Members of the SDS were there, four of us. It is true that many of our Members have been invited. I also told people to attend the meeting, but there was no political talk, there was nothing. It was organized by a Facebook group, which I don't even know who's standing for, and I want to know that I congratulate him on having people finally organized. But for you, it's probably only the All-Slovenian human uprisings that were spontaneous, but everything else is organized. Despite the fact that there were between four and five thousand people in Shenchure, I believe that if this were the All-Slovenian people's uprising with the same number, the media would report that there were 15,000 people in Ljubljana; only the government would have to be the right government to say against which it was protesting. The third thing that has also disturbed me was that if we start doing some solo action, we will be criticised by the European Union. Austria has started doing solo action, and we are following them, which is correct, but too late, and they are also criticised by Merklov, criticized by Juncker and others. First, Mrs Migraines invited them to Europe, now she obviously still wants them, in the meantime she changed her mind, in short, when Austria started to introduce its measures, but of course everything was wrong again. I hope at least you won't give up here. The fourth thing I don't understand is that the Schengen still exists is that we're part of the Schengen. If memory doesn't fool me, it's Schengen that's free movement of people and goods. If you have to show documents at every border, except if you travel by plane within the European Union, then for me, at least at these borders of state, there is no Schengen. In short, the Intelligence Supervisory Commission has already convened a meeting several times, we have had several discussions, the reasons for this were mentioned in the four scenarios. I didn't hear any of them then, and I didn't hear any of them today. This is exactly the problem; whenever we convene a meeting to discuss the future, we hear one set of measures that you have taken in the past, which you are now doing, what you will do in the future, and what will be the intensity of the measures that other countries will take. This is the wrong approach, and I don't know what you're gonna do. I've read before that the border in Macedonia is already weakening. That the border in Macedonia is weakening, but only four thousand people have accumulated. You give Erdogan three billion euros, visa liberalisation, and every day thousands of migrants go through it, so that this policy you've drawn doesn't work either. The border in Macedonia will fall, in June or in the spring months, this flow will be further strengthened and the problems will be even greater. And with such a lack of real action, in fear, if, what the neighbours will say, what people will say, I think that the polls are clear that people do not want to – there is no talk of refugees, I would welcome refugees, but for me refugees are what happened when the war in Yugoslavia was, if anything were wrong in these European countries around us. [[…]] Thousands of miles away, but if people come from leaves in their pockets, in which country you get how much social support, they're not refugees to me. These are economic migrants who do not have the right to live in the European Union in the way they are now coming. Have them arrange a visa to come on the plane, not in an illegal way. And Europe is falling apart and will fall apart because of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'm just going to focus specifically on the issue ahead of us. In particular, I believe that if we want to or do not accept the fact, the security risk will continue to be present as long as the migrant flow flows across Slovenia. We don't know how long this is gonna take. We see only that things are going extremely slowly at European level and, I hope to say, slowly already ineffective, and I fear that the exhaustion of those on the Balkan path, which are the smallest, also economically weak, will occur. Yeah, well, here we are, Slovenia. The question is, and this is always new to me: how long can we endure according to available resources, both human and financial, material. Speaking of high security, I'd say it's a little excessive, and I'll make the case more concrete. As you probably saw from the media, it was, I think, 15. This year, 55 migrants were installed in the Lendava accommodation and reception centre, and those who were rejected and are waiting for entry into Croatia. We need to be aware that those are the ones I think are most difficult to control because they are injured because they already have experience because they have learned a lot on this path. And this also proved to be true in this Lendu case, when, despite the presence of the police there, they managed to escape control from this centre, and the first crime had already taken place. As far as I'm concerned, there was also a car theft, and this car was used for this purpose to drive to Austria. And, fortunately, this case was traced back to Austria, while the other two in Slovenia were able to track down our security authorities, and one of the migrants returned alone. Let's imagine that this center is 200 meters from the village, 500 meters from the elementary school. What can happen? Believe me, we've learned that our security is no longer what it used to be. Yet, we have some hope and confidence in our police and, of course, the new army to provide us with adequate protection. But I still have a question about how long will such a situation be manageable? And don't blame me for saying this even though the Minister has spoken differently - without the citizens being informed enough, we are not as Members well informed. That is why I also support this proposal for recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are talking about the recommendations proposed by the Government to the KNOVS. I was there because I am a member of the Commission when these recommendations were adopted. Consider the 40th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which sets out the powers of the Commission to control intelligence and security services. This Commission shall supervise the activities of the Government's Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defence by law of certain specific forms, methods and measures of obtaining data from the Security and Intelligence Services and the National Assembly once a year report on the supervision and propose the necessary measures. Therefore, in this provision and in the provisions of the law governing this commission, there is no provision, no norm governing the competence of this Commission in order for the Government to inform the KNOVS, or periodically, of all plans relating to security issues in the Republic of Slovenia. This is simply not the competence of the KNOVS. Of course, KNOVS can as one of the working bodies, and this can be discussed by the permanent bodies of the National Assembly on any issue which seems important to it as an interested body, of course. Of course, the National Assembly can also discuss any issue that seems important to it and require information on this issue from the Government. If the members of the coalition parties could vote or, if it were possible for the KNOVS to vote specifically on these two points, they would vote in favour of point 2 and the members of the coalition present would be against point 1. However, since the vote was not possible, it was only packaged, we voted against. So, I will vote against paragraph 1 of the proposed recommendation because I do not think it is within the competence of the KNOVS to make such recommendations at all, because this does not come from the rules of procedure or from the law, and paragraph 2 of the recommendation, because I believe that all the powers of the Government recommended by the Government with this point are already being implemented and there is no reason why this point should not be attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get us ready, mag. Alexander Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Well, it might be most effective to discuss at this stage how to actually provide more resources for the operation of our security systems, both intelligence and security services and the police themselves and of course the military. I think that this is one of the assessments that would be absolutely necessary for us to be able to prepare ourselves adequately for the next events that are just going to happen. At this point, we are responding to this scale, which is immediately present, but the question is how long can we actually endure with this scale. And this is one of the issues that should be very topical, both in the Government and, of course, in the National Assembly. And I think that, although it is extremely good and necessary for us to inform each other, because this flow of information is sometimes too modest, especially if we have in our minds people on the ground who do not know what is going on, and then we face protests and spontaneous responses many times. In short, it will be necessary to provide funds as soon as possible, both for the functioning of the police, the military and, in particular, the intelligence and security services, and of course, to upgrade everything together with appropriate technology, because we are only with appropriate technology, I could say, a step ahead of others. I may only recall one of the investments that has been planned within the Ministry of Defence and is in the implementation phase. It's drones. This is also one of those measures that can help control the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič, prepare for Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Government and the competent ministry have already responded to 39 questions already in the light of the migration crisis, so that the obvious that we are not informed do not, of course, hold back. More than 500,000 people have come through Slovenia. 1.5 million in Europe and Slovenia are not the target country, we have already stressed this many times and this is also widely known. However, the initiative of the President of the Government, given in Brussels, is the only one that has in practice begun to take place on this Western Balkan path. However, the situation is also changing very quickly and Slovenia is also responding quickly to all these changed situations. Of course, Austria's actions are no surprise, and the Government will now act exclusively in the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Only now can the European leaders of Juncker's words about the European Union's common army be aware. Only now that she's called NATO for help. All of this has been pointed out by the Prime Minister of the Government all these months. And, of course, the fact is that the European Union needs a new treaty, perhaps a new proposal for a Treaty on the Constitution for Europe. I am not a jugophil, but it seems that the former Yugoslav countries will save this beloved European Union, so that it will not, of course, disintegrate. Here, of course, is the leading Slovenia, here is the leading Government of the Republic of Slovenia, ministers Erjavec, Katičeva and Žnidarjevo, and of course the first minister, Prime Minister Miro Cerar. But let me just point out that panic and chaos are mainly on some online media where anonymity is expressed to a large extent, and I would just add one opinion of an author who says, "Where would a smart person come from if he got into an argument with people who throw up their inferior complexes like pigeons his bastard from the city facades. Dove trash hasn't spoiled anyone's integrity yet." I will certainly support the second point of the recommendation in this light and in the debate and, of course, support the amendment to point 1 of the recommendation tabled by the Coalition Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Franz Breznik, prepare for Dr. Mitja Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. As you know, almost a year ago, I talked a few times about the problems that will arise, and so today these problems are before us. I mean what some colleagues have said to me today that, in fact, the real problems are barely coming. So today should be the first question of what the President of the Government or ministers in Hungary are doing today. They don't talk much about the migrant crisis because they don't have it. They do not talk, because they were aware and pragmatic that they had already been in contact with Hungary and Slovenia since the summer, when this flow somehow diverted towards Hungary and Slovenia, they set up a barrier because they protected the Schengen, Schengen rules, the Dublin Agreement and so on, because they were aware of some typical historical circumstances that the European Union does not have a mechanism to somehow protect this influx of these refugees or migrants, whatever you call them today. The historical part – 20 years ago, the wars in our neighborhood, the genocide that happened, where the European Union just watched somehow, was a passive viewer in this great tragedy that took place in our neighborhood. And that was the first story at the time, and after that in the European Union, there were no mechanisms in place in the security field that would somehow react immediately. What would happen if Slovenia then acted pragmaticly and closed the border with Hungary? In my opinion, that first aspect would be a psychic aspect, that you can't just walk into the Schengen by some rules. That you need and can have certain rights that are guaranteed to you primarily by the European Convention and all other international acts, but that does not mean that someone can walk through Europe as we could not walk a few years ago. And here, look, there was a fundamental mistake. As long as Angela Merkel had her views on the migrant crisis, I've explained several times that she's been caught, I can say literally, in some way. On the one hand, in the resolution of the Greek crisis, she was repeatedly labeled to prepare the Fourth Reich, here she wanted to show someone, we could say some humanity, to show some great solidarity in Germany. Especially the Germans, as we know, are handicapped by the crimes committed during World War II, and that is why they have always acted in a way even in an external political sense, we can say passively. And here's the big problem. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have had a negative opinion on Angela Merkel from the very beginning, even though we are part of the European People's Party. If she wanted to get these migrants to Germany, she had a plane, she had resources, she could go get them and bring them in. We have established Slovenia and Slovenia in the first stage for Slovenians and Slovenians, and of these Slovenians and Slovenes, quite a few people in this country do not live a decent life. And most of the time, when there are such problems that we now have, which are going to be a little bit bigger, then it solves this Slovenia most of the Eastern part of the country. Now Lendava, Šentilj, Lenart, Upper Radgon and so on. That's four points, four places, four places where this is handled. And the first part of the decision that we are deciding today is that we should be informed by Members of the practical case – in Lenart on Thursday evening we had a meeting of the municipal council; neither the mayor nor the saints were ever aware that any centre would be as familiar as the month of September when we received the first refugees. [[…]] But the first refugees to arrive in September were still somewhat optimistic. In fact, they did not need any help, they wanted to continue their journey to a promised Germany and so on. Now comes the key problems. For the first time, what Mr Janša said today is too weak to identify at the border. All the mass defectors of these refugees across the state border. So, the triage that wasn't done was not set targets, so the screening of these people, and in fact we've released over 400 thousand refugees through this area, perhaps a third of whom might be sufficient for all those standards in which they could be granted refugee status. And this is the key problem, how many people will die and everything else, and the other problem that will arise will therefore be that the Slovenian public is not informed. And that's exactly why I'm calling again, and I'm going to support both recommendations. The Slovenian public must be informed, as well as the Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members. The agenda item we are dealing with today is rather confusing, in various ways presented as a security issue. But if we take a closer look, that's not even the point. We are working with plans on how the Government, how the Ministry of the Interior, how the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are preparing for a phenomenon that we have been alerting for a long time, is the phenomenon of mass migration, which, for some relatively well-known reasons, is a security issue. Security problem, responses to it. As far as the Government is aware of the response, the Ministry of the Interior has drawn up security plans and is acting in accordance with what conditions are met for the implementation of each of the envisaged plans. As far as I know and as far as I'm concerned, security issues in this regard are being addressed. There is no security problem, except for the one that occurs with regard to various demonstrations where groups oppose, in order to be organised, to respond to the challenges we face in advance. The government has been very clearly controlling migration flows all the time. We are talking about half a million migrants that we have successfully provided and sent to the desired destinations. As far as these plans are concerned, of course, the Government communicates peacefully and we are all familiar with them, and from knowledge to work security is of course very tending. Therefore, let us note, of course, that the Government and the Ministry of the Interior, in combination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence, must be trusted to continue to do their work as effectively as they have done until now, when people are practically not [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Sorry, Mr Andrej Chuš. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Those 15 seconds that I have, I would like to say that all countries, except the countries of the Visegrad Group, today live in fear, uncertainty and day to day. They are also adapting and copying certain measures from other countries, rather than protecting our country, our border, in due time. What the Ministry of the Interior is doing when it imposes migrant centres is, in my opinion, an attack [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I must first conclude that it is in some way incomprehensible, but above all very sad that we have to deal with such issues in 2016, with the issues of literally the exodus of a large part of the population of individual countries in the Middle East, and consequently with questions and problems as to how to take action on this occasion of course. What is the priority or priorities of each country, as well as of Slovenia? Of course, to ensure sovereignty at your border within your own and independent country, and in particular to ensure the safety of both migrants and especially the safety of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. On this occasion, I am firmly convinced that there is no need, but really no need to frighten citizens, that there is panic and fear among people, and there is no need for these migrants, these unhappy people who run away from their homes because of the war, because of the situation such as it is and we have the opportunity to see it every day on television, to promise between and milk and to be invited to some other foreign promised countries. Of course, I cannot agree with all those who think in this way that the so-called migrant wave must be cut. Already, it is necessary to deal with, deal with, deal with, deal with, deal with, and, of course, with the citizens of the countries they are going through, but I think it is a priority, and I hear all too little of this that it is necessary to cut down, that violence should be suppressed or extinguished where it started; Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq, probably some other country could be found. We didn't ask ourselves what we were going to do to actually settle things there. I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure these people don't just run away from their homes. It's probably the last solution for them to go into infinity, into foreign places just to save their lives and not live their lives where bombs are cut, where lives are extinguished, and so on. It's very hard to watch television when people die when children die, when families are broken and so on and so forth. Once again, it has to be solved as it is in a fire, and I hope it won't be too plastic, too simplistic a comparison. But when a fire is made, it has to start putting it out where it's started, not in the end, because that way we don't get a little bit of a solution. Of course, it is also necessary to ask why this has occurred, what are these objectives, who intended to destabilise the situation — both there and probably in Europe as a result. Did the person who did this actively participate in the resolution of the so-called migrant crisis? I mean, I don't mean, I'm sure, this proves daily information that this country didn't do it. I would have expected on this occasion of course I was critical. [[…]] I'm critical at the final stage of my life, even to this country. And on this occasion, I do not see any overly critical criticism towards Slovenia, but to our country, of course, I must be critical, and I can rightly say that the European Union, which has simply not unified its positions, has not unified its key policies, as well as its asylum and migrant policies, in order to regulate the situation in this area and to curb these so-called migratory flows. In the future, of course, I expect that all that I have been thinking about and at this point it is inconceivable that Europe, as a group, as an association of equal and sovereign nations, of sovereign countries, will still be able to work so hard that, of course, it will solve these matters in the best way and thus enable prosperity for itself, the European Union and all those countries from which refugees are fleeing. There is a lot of confusion, however, it is necessary to be aware of the actual situation and to resolve matters. It should also be borne in mind that in this case it is not a matter of, I cannot find a better term for "fucking" with euros, with dollars or with any other world currency, but it is fate and the life of a multitude of people. I sincerely hope that the solution, of course, is the so-called activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. I believe that this is, at this point, the least bad solution and that it will, of course, contribute, with the cooperation of all other stakeholders in this area, to calm the situation, and that, however, we will be able to live as soon as possible, not only in Europe, but also in other parts of the world, peace and prosperity. These are my sincere wishes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mr. Franz Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, it didn't go that far from what I initially said in the position of the Joint Left Group. On the one hand, of course, we are facing the problem of the refugee crisis, and, of course, the issue of the refugee crisis has started to be followed mainly by a speech about security, and hence the only logical thing, and this is the fear of the inhabitants and residents of this country. This sowing of panic and fear comes in some way from two sides. On the one hand, it comes from where we expect, if I say so, the right-hand side of this hall of similar movements, which, of course, in such situations are looking primarily for support for the growth of their political ratings, but let's just say that this is unacceptable, but it is understandable. The other thing is the one that is more worrying, and it is that in some ways part of this fear and this panic that arises in Slovenia come from the opposite side, from the coalition and from the government. The right-wing representatives, in particular, are rooting in some way for Slovenia to go along the road of the Visegraj Group. There they have their own idea of how to deal with the refugee problem, and we have seen how the responses to Hungary, say, Poland and so on were. In short, very sharp, very hard rhetoric, which is extremely anti-migrant, anti-refugee, and which is supposed to defend some of the values of the European Union, which we all clearly picture in our own way and also define in very different ways. What did the Government do, why is there a criticism of the government and some kind of coalition in Parliament? Although we initially talked about solidarity, about humanitarianism, about Europe having to step together, find a common solution, these things have literally dissipated within these few months, and our government has followed exactly the worst example, the worst case in practice, and this was, of course, Orbán's Hungary. We have set up a cutting fence on the southern border, fenced ourselves from Croatia, and in some ways we are trying all the time with the moves that this government is taking, to push this problem down, if I are to name it so carically, to rob, short away from our doors. And this is, of course, this domino effect, which is kind of across Europe, in short, every Member State is trying to shift this burden of its own, which, of course and also is absolutely responsible, to one country in the south or even to the edge of the European Union. We are creating a new fortress for Europe, we are creating a new community of Member States, which are particularly insensitive to this problem and who do not want to take responsibility. And, of course, this brings behind it something that we can see slowly as a decomposition of exactly those European values. And, of course, there are two different definitions. If we have to talk about European values or how the European Union should work at all, it should be that cooperation and solidarity between countries, and that is what should be the goal. However, we have seen that, obviously because of the various pressures, because of the various accounts behind this, it is not so, and that it is simply now that this community or, as we like to call it, that family of European countries has in some way fallen apart. And at this very point, we should now turn this flow in a different direction, not continue with extreme measures, not continue with moves such as the tightening of asylum legislation, the aim of which can be nothing more than an easier rejection of applicants for international protection or deterrence – and this is also clearly said by the Ministry's representatives that it is a deterrent – in short, we do not want refugees in Slovenia. This is the signal we send to people in distress. I say that each Member State has its own responsibility and that it is also right to accept this responsibility. Let us remember that, although we may not have intervened directly in Syria, Slovenia was present when we intervened in Iraq, we also sent troops to Afghanistan, and these are moves that have also contributed to the destabilisation of this part of the world. We have destabilised or helped to destabilise one way or another, with silent support or with clear support from the NATO Alliance for the destabilisation of this area, and we continue to do so today — when in Turkey military forces are actually using the fight against terrorism to literally bomb their own opposition, we are silent again. And this is a policy that, of course, shows nothing but duality and that we will not solve this problem. We are not going to save her with a cutting fence, we are not going to save her with strict asylum legislation, and we are not going to save her with the police powers of the military, and I think this should be clear. In a way from this debate today, I have understood the humanitarianism in this situation that our Government sees in such a way that we let refugees or people fleeing from wars come to the target country, and then we will take our share of the burden with quotas. This is not the right way to proceed. If we are to accept part of our responsibility, we must do so without quotas and now. And the third thing – and this is probably the most problematic at this point, even though we had a meeting last week about hate speech – is this, in short, the growing discourse of xenophobia, Islamophobia and any fear and not least also hatred of different ones. We have seen things that are already incomprehensible; pig heads in the Islamic Center, various gatherings and, finally, what happened in Shenchure on Saturday, which I think is very far away. Too far. These are the things we have been alerting some of us to at the time of this refugee crisis, and they are now coming true. I don't speak from some position of profit or anything, but it was purely logical consequences. We know how things are going, we know that certain moves are escalating, and a clear and purely reasonable outcome is now here. And on the one hand, we have, I repeat, a political right that, at the wave of this crisis and the fear of riding on public opinion polls, on the other hand, we have a government coalition that did not know or wanted to respond adequately to this refugee crisis. So we have, I think, a big problem right now in this country. We have a problem that points to some dark times, and of course these dark times appear all over Europe. I'm gonna end up at this point because it's hard to moralize. I only hope that sooner or later we will accept this responsibility, that we will gather enough sense – because the other is not left to us at this time – to maybe stop a little, to see what we have actually done in these few months, and to turn the other thing in the opposite direction and perhaps to make some adjustments. Of course, it will also be necessary for us to engage in the international community and not propose moves such as the larger measures at the Greek-Macedonian border, but significantly different measures that will help to actually solve – as I think at least some in this Chamber call – problems at origin, and, secondly, to solve those problems that we now have here on European soil, but in such a way that they will actually be humanitarian solutions to these problems, not merely avoiding and dissuading this problem to some remote place where we will not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replicator. Here you go, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u54	Orwell already wrote visionaryly, "in totalitarianism the truth will declare hate speech," Churchill added, "the fascists of the future will call themselves anti-fascists." And where does this kind of demagogy come from? Just one piece of information. My colleague has now explained in full that we are advocating integration into the Visegraj Group, which, by the way, is now a practical official policy of the Republic of Slovenia, following the last meeting of the National Security Council and the visit of the President of the country to the Visegra Group. Because we have good examples there and everything goes to the right and I don't know what nonsense. First, there are some left governments, if you don't know it, and secondly, you won't believe it, but if you knew what you were talking about – the involvement in the Visegraje Group for Slovenia was actively supported by Milan Kučan as President of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, and then we will go to the conclusion of the debate when the representatives of the Government and the proposer have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to both ministers, to the Secretary of State, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs! In this House, a lot of words have been addressed to this issue. I think this is also the right thing to do, because at this point we probably have the biggest problems right now with the refugee, migrant problem. Why is it that the assessment of colleagues on the left and right that the Government has not responded to the problem in time? That's what I'd say. The position of the far left is that the government has responded and takes matters too hard, while the position of the right side is quite different, so that the government should react even earlier and react more extremely. The government has just reacted the way it is and, according to my own opinion, I estimate that it has reacted well in time, and that we have not so far had any major problems in this regard. We have had such problems as all other countries have had on this Balkan path. If we had reacted extremely at first, of course our people would have reacted negatively. I fully agree with Karl Erjavac. For me and, of course, for most citizens and citizens, it is crucial that the danger threatens freedom and that freedom is what matters. And for that reason, of course, we must react in the first place by ensuring security for citizens and citizens. I completely agree here. Of course, I must say that lately, like all Members of Parliament, I have probably received quite a lot of letters from citizens and citizens, and that one of these has sent me sixteen questions. Of course, these questions give you thought, and if I only tell you three questions that I would give you to consider: Why does it not touch on the origin of the tragedy? Why are these migrants — mainly migrants and, of course, refugees among them — particularly excellently fit and physically prepared? Why are they demanding and not asking? These are questions raised by a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. I've had more questions like this. I appreciate, and probably most of us also think that it is huge, at least at the very beginning, among these migrants of economic migrants, and significantly less refugees than those. And, of course, this raises the question whether Europe has now reacted in a timely manner? But you know Angela Merkel, of course, invited migrants into her country, especially because she probably also estimated that she needed these people for workers in the German economy. If we evaluate Angela Merkel and her work, I have just heard today that someone from that side said that Germany is carrying the consequences of World War II I deeply agree with this, but this was the first time spoken so far that no one has critically appreciated that call by Angela Merkel to come to Germany. [[…]] Maybe it didn't give you much thought. This was a relatively very strange thing to do and, of course, later, when migrants, refugees went in the direction of Germany, the countries on this path had certain consequences. If they were needed, refugees, migrants, it would probably be the wisest course to have them transported from their source through the airport to Germany. I still have one thing to say here. In Parliament, our National Assembly has recently been visited by the President of the Hungarian Parliament. He spoke very frankly about the causes of the difficult situation. And, of course, he mentioned countries that specifically mentioned countries that had actually caused this crisis and, of course, also mentioned that they had exported democracy to the ground, where the focus and origin of the refugee problem were also in fact. However, I did not understand the proposaler well how he meant why all those whom others would not like to have as migrants were refugees in their countries to come to Slovenia. It is true that we have the beginning of the Schengen border, but not only in Slovenia, somewhere else in the south is the Schengen border. Then it means that in that south, we would also drive, or we would just drive to Slovenia, all those who would not want to have them elsewhere. You'll probably answer that question, too. As far as Schenchure is concerned. Today, to say that it was a civil initiative and that it was some meeting No, it was a political meeting, some Members organized buses there, and nothing wrong with them just making themselves known about the problems that they themselves consider to be. [[...]] But we need to be honest and honest about the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Now it's the government's turn. Here you go, mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much again for your word. In view of my comprehensive presentation or my speech at the beginning of today's session, I think we have succeeded in clarifying the overall picture of the management of migration flows and also that I have highlighted all the essential circumstances that are important to understand that in fact Slovenia is taking all the measures that are necessary for us and also for the region to slow down the flow in order to significantly reduce. What is the importance of coordinated action? At the same time, adequate attention should also be paid to the supervision and protection of the external borders of the European Union, as this is also an important part of the problematic situation. I believe that you are also aware of what is going on at the Macedonian border and in fact of the importance of agreeing on the criteria for crossing the border, i.e. the uniform criteria for the categories of migrants that the target countries will still accept because they are still actually accepting. Only then will the migration flow be coordinated, manageable and countries will avoid conflicts at their borders. So they will avoid returning and hoarding the latter in the countries on the road, and of course the first selector must be Macedonia. In view of the fact that we are in all of these debates in fact between the two poles – and these two fields have also been expressed today – that is to say two very opposed fields – I think it is also appropriate to clarify that the European Union is actually based on specific concepts. Slovenia is also a Member State of the European Union. As you know, the Schengen is also related to the restriction of illegal immigration, as this is not least one of the assumptions that internal borders can be removed within this Schengen area. And the form of tighter control, i.e. tighter control at the external borders, is actually designed not to reduce security within this area where these borders are being removed. And this is the famous fortress of Europe, of which we have been hearing a great deal lately, but it also has its own rally, because the free movement in an area without borders, and also illegal migration must be deterred, of course this situation, which we have been given, also has its specifics, as has been pointed out several times now, that the rules are not adapted to such massive arrivals of people in Europe, and I also agree with what has been said today that adequate sensitivity must also be directed at the fact that the escape from the war zone is largely covered by the illegal crossing of borders. In short, even the net securitisation of the migrant stream is extremely harmful, and I have already stressed this several times today. In fact, the purest form is reflected in the issue of these accommodation centres, which are actually necessary to bridge the period at which the state implements measures, namely, Slovenia at its northern and southern borders, to regulate and actually achieve such a situation that we will come to such a reduction in the numbers on the Western Balkan route, so that we can say that we are moving in concrete terms against the normal functioning of the Schengen area. As far as information is concerned, it has been repeatedly stressed today that information is insufficient. I also said at the outset that I do not agree with this, because, apart from all the information I have been talking about, even in the Government - National Assembly, I think that press conferences are extremely comprehensive and that all the information is given. Last but not least, at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we have also shown our readiness to directly send groups that we are also ready to explain at any time so that you can always turn us around whenever you feel that there is a need to do so. In short, we are always prepared for any explanation. So we do not accept these perceptions that information from the Ministry or anyone else or the Government is insufficient. The exceptional burden of Eastern Slovenia was also mentioned. Of course, our actions or our proposal also go in the direction of making this region burdensome, but you know that we have also come across a considerable amount of resistance, which, last but not least, the opposition's representatives are talking about with pride. The event in Lendava was also mentioned, so that the escape of four migrants would be linked to certain emerging forms of crime in the form of theft or car theft. Here I can say that even after the assurances of the Director of the Murska Sobota Police Administration, there is no link between these people's escape and the crime they were talking about. However, I think it is also important to touch on one very vulnerable category that is in this migratory stream, these are unaccompanied minors. This is about children traveling alone for various reasons, either because their parents died in war or because their parents were traveling alone. This is a matter of very sensitive categories and I think that these children are not a threat and that it is a duty and also our human responsibility to take care of these children, because – even the Ombudsman and also UNHCR warn of this problem – it is not appropriate to create them in a crisis centre, but it is necessary to find other suitable capacities for children, given that they are certainly traumatized and I do not want to imagine what these children have put through on this path. Today the situation has been presented in a broader way and is also partly covered by what has been decided on the European Council. And here I agree, it is certainly true that migration is a catalyst for development, has been in history and will also be in the future. However, the difference between refugee and migrant needs to be maintained. We know these are two different categories. It is a group with different motivations, which also has different status under international and national law. Of course, we agree that the desire for a better life is not equivalent to the need to secure our own life or freedom. That is why certain decisions are being taken at the EU level in order to relieve these people's asylum systems, so that people who are more economically motivated are excluded from the migration flow as soon as possible, and to provide more places for those who are actually coming from war zones fleeing the war and who really need our help. The developments in the region and beyond, and this debate today confirms that the problem is also of a legal nature, which means that this civilisational material or body of international law that regulates the refugee problem is under incredible pressure, because it is already very dangerously linked to various concepts that were not at first sight linked to refugee issues in some other periods. Therefore, it is linked to tightening border controls with a view to dissuading various phenomena, including illegal migration. Of course, the fundamental question, or clear distinction, of who is a refugee and who is a migrant is of paramount importance because the Geneva Convention imposes a duty of protection only to the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u60	Thank you. I have to say, this was really interesting to hear. I must say that perhaps more for someone on the side than for a citizen or a citizen, because those who are in Parliament and we are aware of our responsibilities, as well as ordinary people – citizens, citizens who are aware of their responsibilities – are now appalled. We all rightly expected important information today on how Slovenia intends to face the challenge of migration. We got nothing. The information is closed, the government says, "you don't care about anything", the ruling coalition predicts that it will reject the decision to inform the National Assembly accordingly and in the opposite, although this is a constitutional category, because the first of the two categories, which are enshrined in the Constitution for Parliament, is the competence to adopt legislation and the second is the competence to control, control. You know, Churchill said, "trust is good, but control is even better" – in politics always. And apparently some of you give up on your own, but it's your constitutional duty, ladies and gentlemen, not just justice. You just seem to have little interest in the constitution. And then I'm not surprised that an illegal "migrant express" has been running through Slovenia for four months, in which, as you yourself said, you've let go of over 200 thousand people, and you've taken 35,000 prints and said, "we're doing the Schengen." If we were to implement the Schengen, of course, we would have taken fingerprints and checked their statements, checked their statements, and then a lot of what was going on wouldn't have happened. But all that mattered back then was the flow. This was the only fetish discussed at government level and in this Parliament. And now it's coming back like a boomerang. If you don't think about it a little bit further, if you can't see beyond your own nose, of course things are coming back like a big boomerang, and that's exactly what we're witnessing right now. Before I go to the current situation, just another fetish and another fetish. "Migration is a catalyst for development." Yeah. If we do not learn anything from history, then we do say something like what the Minister has just said. However, if we look at history, we will see that the Roman Empire fell precisely because of uncontrolled migration, but it had a very high level of cultural development, that the Greek Empire fell because of migration, that the Byzantine Empire collapsed because of migration, that Europe almost collapsed because of migration – you will not believe, Turkish or Islamic – and that at the last minute Europe saved Jan Sobieski in 1683 in Vienna, when the last moment of the day the wall of Vienna fell, it came to help. And that's why we're talking here today, or else we'd be a star on the wall for a month, and we'd probably be talking about Sharia law, like the whole of Europe. But if we do not learn anything from history, then we do not understand that what is now happening after 300 years is completely different. The same Turks are sending these people here and encouraging them to get on the road, and they even organize certain ones, which you probably know or should know. And in doing so, some of their jobs are gratified, with their criminals serving fantastically. And the same is true in Greece, where we have a leftist government in power, which is now making a fool of itself from all over Europe and destroying it. Maybe in a deal with some greatness, maybe on your own, because it suits them by accident. But the problem with Europe is that it doesn't find the answer to this, that it behaves like, I don't know, sheep going to the slaughterhouse. I'm sorry, the responsible governments would do as Orbán did. Today, he's the biggest dude in Europe if anyone didn't happen to notice. It's also considered by the Germans, not just his Hungarians. Did he do anything illegal? No, he did exactly what the whole of Europe should do. He shut down and protected the border. And today, if someone comes to the threshold of Hungary, if he comes to their border crossing and applies for asylum, he is accepted and treated. And it shall be examined whether or not it is justified or justified, whatever the case. This is how the whole of Europe should act. Everything else is a larifari, everything else, you will not believe, is a direct violation of European law. All that's been going on right now, this powerful fake humanism, I don't know what, false solidarity, it's all illegal, it's against European acts, if you don't know it. And no matter what the European institutions say, because, by the way, people talk a lot, they don't even know what they're talking about. As has been shown in this House several times. And that is why Europe is now in trouble. But here is not just a problem that would be of some transitional importance that may be forgotten tomorrow. These things can mean very quickly the end of Europe, as we know it now. The end of modern united Europe. And for Slovenia, that means an enormous security and economic challenge. And because of this saying that the public or parliament cares nothing about what the Government is preparing, forgive me, it is extremely irresponsible, unconstitutional and totally unacceptable! If anyone, Parliament should be informed accordingly. Of course, not every tactical move is necessary, but a general plan on how it will proceed, how it will increase, and this should be made clear unconditionally. And those who renounce it yourself, read the Constitution as to what it commands. But you must know that you are here representing the public and that you are responsible to it and that your conduct is irresponsible to citizens and citizens. But what causes the government to do that when it closes the information? I'm pretty sure if we said something in general, it wouldn't be wrong and we wouldn't betray any big secrets, but it's probably such a bad plan that they don't hope to introduce it. But what's the problem? If you don't introduce something to the public, if you say, "We won't say anything," people rightly wonder what's wrong, what's wrong, they're scared. And people are rightly afraid of everything that is going on in Europe. It happened in Paris, it happened in Cologne, not only in Cologne, but in one hundred cities in Europe, which is hardly written or spoken of anymore. You will not believe that in Germany a few days ago, or now a few migrants have been arrested for extreme terrorism charges. They were preparing explosives and stuff. And that's people who obviously went across Slovenia. After an official statement, you have it on the German government's website, they took the Balkan route and their leader went across the border to Austria on December 28th. Where do you think he went? Over Hungary? Try again. And if anything happened, then someone would be responsible? Probably the one who organized the illegal transport of migrants here. Once again, everything that has been going on here in recent months has been practically illegal, contrary to European regulations that have not been implemented consciously. And part of Europe has taken this right and the Slovenian government has taken it upon itself. Without thinking about what we've been warning you will come back like a boomerang. Why? Because the question before was, how can we say that we are being returned by those who do not want them elsewhere? [[…]] Here remain those who are rejected at the top of the border or those who are slowly returning. And believe me, there's going to be more. Because some of the home countries – this is a key problem, I believe that Germany wanted to return now with airplanes and the like – said, "we will not take people back." But you know why not? Because some of the native countries there in the Middle East in North Africa were happy to empty out, just as Castro in Cuba once did, all the prisons and they sent along nicely with the migrant mass to Europe all their problems. And they're happy to cut us off because it's a joke for them. Europe, however, has a terrible security problem, including with crime now. It's weird, but not that they won't take them back. Why not? Europe, "come," and I don't know what else. It's like, "Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity. And I'm not quite sure about the universe." That's what Einstein said, by the way. This meeting, once again, is the best evidence of how urgent both decisions would be to be taken. Because if relevant information is not provided to people, if it is silenced, if it is blocked, it is manipulated, and this rightly arouses fear. Fear causes radicalisation in people, one way or another, and thus the government and the ruling coalition themselves cause radicalisation of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Exactly what you then turn upside down to everyone else. It's just that we should pour people pure wine. Nobody's asking us to write which unit is going to go to the border or anything like that, it's understood not to be said. But to tell you in general what he's going to do, it's only fair and even the only wise. And for this we should achieve as broad a consensus as possible before this is publicly presented and say, "Our common goal is that we all work in this and this direction." And such responsible democratic countries act whenever it comes to key issues for the existence of the country itself, and security and security policies are certainly an area where this is absolutely necessary, and even more so in the face of the challenge of the migration crisis. The problem when this darkness opens up is that it's always obvious, I don't know, hate speech, and I don't know what it's all about. I will only repeat once more, ladies and gentlemen, orwell has already written, "the truth in totalitarianism is declared hostile speech." And that's exactly what's happening in Europe today and I'm just wondering. Where Europe skates. And if I can't stop it, I will do everything I can to ensure that at least in Slovenia the right to freedom of expression is preserved, that no one will be afraid if the truth is told, even if someone doesn't like it at that time. However, Churchill said more than 70 years ago that the fascists of the future would call themselves anti-fascists, but it is probably also very clear in terms of the radicalisation of the left that we are witnessing to her; not only here, but also elsewhere in Europe, perhaps even the most neighbouring Austria. What's the solution? The first is the truth — pour pure wine to people, tell them exactly what is planned, what is waiting for them, what measures, how much it will cost. At least at the principle level, this is absolutely necessary. People have every right to do that. For if anyone forgets in this hall, the constitution determines that the people have authority. All of us are just a form of the exercise of this authority, and power is from the people and from no one else. And it is the people who have every right to know the truth, and it is our duty to tell them. In the short term, migration flows must certainly be cut off, otherwise Europe will end. I hope that's clear to everyone now. And there's not much time for that. It's this winter. If more than one million migrants enter Europe again in the spring, things will go in the wrong direction. Believe me, then the British will be the first to go their own way, and there will be no more cubes and dominoes behind them, and the European Union will no longer be. Then we will not only face this problem of who to link to, where to seek help, support for common goals, as with the Multigrarian Group to go down and stop at the Macedonian border of migration flow – which, by the way, we proposed to you six months ago, and that was then overturned, and today it is being sold as a great idea of this government. This is certainly a move in the right direction, including connecting with the Visegrad Group is a real move. This is all too late, and it is still only a half-track approach, because there is still another possibility that is worse, much worse and much worse to be left alone. But we must ourselves be able to close our borders, we must ourselves be able to defend our borders, we must ourselves be able to defend our own legal order, defend security and human rights and the personal integrity of every citizen and every citizen living here. We need to be able to do that. For the time being, we are able to do so within a social community, an interstate community that we belong to. What if it doesn't work anymore; it already works like this – little yes, little no. Then things are gonna get really bad. And that's what we're going to have to talk about, and that's what we should be preparing for. That should be one script. The second scenario should be the one that is now being implemented in practice, although as an interesting one – the integration with the Visegra Group, which I proposed a good month ago, members of this Parliament and members of the ruling coalition have slightly rejected, as have all the other conclusions that we have proposed. Today your government is actually doing this, and the president of the country, even more so, has now gone up to the Visegrad Group. Which means the eyes are kind of open. What's the problem? The problem is half-life, you're doing everything too late, too slow, too slow, half-cocked, because maybe you shouldn't be standing there today and here, and long ago you should be protecting yourself for any case, so no one can then say, "you didn't execute Schengen because of this we're closing you down," because it's really leaving those big words of how Slovenia executes Schengen and similar nonsense. [[…]] [[…]] Schengen has been dead in Slovenia for months and in the European Union it is believed that two countries have destroyed Schengen, namely Greece and Slovenia. And that's what you hear when you go to one of the neighbouring governments or to the European institutions, and you hear the same thing when you go to a restaurant in Koroška, which is on the Austrian side. They say, "Her Slovenians, and you knocked down Schengen, and it was so nice," and they're sorry about that. That's the problem. And you can imagine that it's all different, that it's an injustice, that you were trying to do everything in agreement with Angela Merkel and with the Austrians and I don't know who the problem is that everyone is saving themselves today. [[…]] The Austrians are the best example of this moment. They've closed themselves down, now they're going to try to clean up what to clean up, defend the German pressure of the return stream, at the same time, of course, it's only a matter of time before things get tougher. But what's the problem is, we've already been cut off on the north side. Today, at the Austrian border, more and more fences are growing, armoured vehicles are growing, there are 450 new soldiers on the border, and believe me, there are still quite a few in reserve. They moved the entire two divisions of their army to the border a few months ago, and that's what I told you when it started. And by the way, a few shouts were that it wasn't true. Go today. And when I said that the fence would be extended, that there wouldn't be any chance that it would stay at that 3.6 kilometers, you also said that it wasn't true that it was a lie. Now go see what's going on on the Austrian border. Today they also reject Slovenians and Slovenians across the border. But we're all used to it, not just crossing the border, going past the border crossing where you wanted to go. It was the essence of schengen, the true freedom of movement, the frontier was gone. We said, "We are finally all Slovenians united within one community, how beautiful it is; all Slovenians living in Italy, Austria, Slovenia, we are all within one community"; this is over. And that's what this government and this coalition are most responsible for because it's wrong. If we put ourselves in a different position, if we started to stop the migrant flow earlier, things could turn in a completely different direction. And today we would not be faced with something that does not only cause fear, and rightly so also causes economic damage. Economic damage, which is multiple. When you say, "that's not the problem" I wait, really part of it is co-financed by the European Union, but who's funding the European Union? [[...]] So do we. It is said that around the bend we get our own money back for giving it to migrants for the migration crisis. In addition, we have already paid half ourselves directly as taxpayers. And it's only one part of the cost, even more of the cost is all that is the indirect cost; more money will have to be given to the police, more money will have to be given for the military, more money will have to be given for all the jobs involved. That'll be the second part of the cost. And the third part is circumstantial, but the worst part is economic damage. Because legitimate entrepreneurs are afraid to invest; they consider it an unstable environment, and in fact the environment is totally unpredictable if you are honest with yourself, and again this government and this coalition are responsible. What does that mean? There are no new jobs, no bigger investments, some moving abroad. For many other reasons, which only generalize this move. And that means more poverty in Slovenia. But ordinary people keep money in their socks, because it's a normal reflection of a man wherever the world is the same story. When trouble starts, people start saving because they think it's worse coming and I have to be prepared for anything. Money doesn't go around, the economy stops working. And everything turns into spirals down, spirals backward. And it is not the case that now all the forecasts for the economy of Slovenia, both European institutions, international institutions and Slovenian institutions have become much worse than they were a few months ago. By the way, this is not only a Slovenian problem, as the problem of Germany is also a major part of Europe. Previously, it was said, once again, "Migrating is a catalyst for development." Yeah, my answer would be "a little bit of morgen" if the Germans understood it. Because what happened? Really, that was when all the stupid things happened when this story started. What were you saying? Here come, I don't know, astronomy engineers, surgeons are coming, new workforce is coming for Europe, and shit like that. What has proved to be true in practice? When BMW wanted only 16 in a million and a half large numbers of migrants to find them and hire them, he couldn't get one. Then their Minister of Labour acknowledged that 90% of those coming are not at all compatible with the European labour market. They have no place to put them in Germany, which means that all those who come are just the burden of socialism. That's the truth. Which means what's going on is joyful destruction and huge stupidity. Because if you really wanted to help yourself and you could, it would help where these people come from. There, this aid would be significantly more effective at an equally high cost. Once again, when you bring a migrant here and you live here for a year, more families could live somewhere in the Middle East for a year. It would be the same cost, but there would be no problems here, no fear and economy would work optimally. And what happens if you're on a plane and the plane starts losing oxygen? It is always true that you must first put your mask on to help yourself, because only then will you be able to help others. And that is something that Europe does not understand. Or those who speak of a Christian tradition. Of course, it is Christian to help, but it is not Christian to commit suicide. And what Europe is doing is suicide in this story. And it's time for this to end, it's about time. Otherwise, suicide will be successful, the European Union will no longer be. It's already been changed, already. God forbid that what President Janša said here will be accepted – that when Germany cries, of course, "come all" on the other hand, pressure on the European Union to accept that they will become prisons and checks at the borders once more permanent. This means the end of Europe, as we know it. Who's using that? Not to the European Union and not to its inhabitants. It only benefits those who want a weak and vulnerable Europe, whoever it is, I can count on them. And I don't understand those who, on behalf of false humanitarianism and false solidarity, help do so because they work to the detriment of their own country. The wave's stuck and turned. You all know that. This presents a completely different challenge to Slovenia. Here, if something very serious does not change in government policy, more migrants will begin to gather. Migrants will, as a rule, be those who are rejected by others. Which means people who are offended, and these are people, believe me, who are used to command, and they're not good if they're offended. And such people pose a potentially very high security risk on their own. Not to mention all the circumstances I've already mentioned. Some countries from the Middle East and North Africa have sent them on their way to migrants, what services have told them about them — at least 3 000 500 of them have been proved by terrorists associated with people, either with ISIS or with Al-Qaida. Some even talk about the number 10,000. What this means is that the French and Spanish services have already declared six months ago that the number of those they should follow is too great and that they are completely powerless, that they no longer have any idea what is going on, and where is who. And I'm not talking about what happened in Germany. Taharrush gamea, this disgusting way of humiliating women, mass rape, was agreed through public networks if you don't know it. And that's from Sweden to Germany to Austria to Salzburg, if you want. And that was 14 days in advance, and all these networks are under control, and it hasn't responded. What's wrong with this Europe? That's what I'm wondering. What does he want to do? And I've been asking this question to a lot of people, and to this day, I haven't been able to give one such answer as to believe in it. I'm really worried. And that's just an extra argument for what I've been saying since the beginning. The equipment can only be itself and we must do everything in order to allow security for our people and we owe it to them and that people live in the area of prosperity as it has been since independence. And there's no room for naivety anymore. Long ago, there should be no least room for naivety in the field of international policy. International policy is a ruthless defence of the interests of individual countries. Let's leave all those big words behind, but it's in practice. And those who do not follow it, who do not act in this way, always draw short in international relations. That's how it is. And that's why it's about time things started to change around here. The first condition is to tell people the truth. And in government, ladies and gentlemen, you owe them that. In particular, you are obliged to stop by and ensure access to all information to Parliament. And this to Parliament as a whole and to its working bodies. And any closure of information means only that, is a signal that the government is hiding something, something bad is hiding and thus causing additional radicalisation and fear in the country. And no government has that right to do it. It's irresponsible, it leads to problems, it can lead to a lot of things that no one wants today, I hope. You need to be aware of Churchill's maximum. In fact, there is only that country that is capable of defending its borders at any moment. And Slovenia will have to start preparing for this. Now is the time to seek out the allies for this, to continue this policy, which is now being launched, many months too late – and by the way, it is being attacked by some, including Germany, so that they do not continue to do so, but it is necessary to insist unconditionally – to set a border for migration flows and to cross it at the Greek-Macedonian border. If this fails, it must be stopped at the Slovenian border. And with everything this country can do. And that's what you need to prepare for now. Why do I keep doing this so many times? Because, ladies and gentlemen, the official forecasts of European institutions and global institutions are to wait for a multi-million-dollar journey to Europe, even more than ten million people are widely estimated. And it's only predicted this spring if something doesn't change significantly to get around three, four million people at a time. This has also been published by the European institutions. The EU will no longer be able to withstand this shock. This shock cannot survive Slovenia, but at least in the situation in which this government has taken us so unnecessarily because virtually all migration is now going over Slovenia. That's insufferable. We have become a precursor to Europe. Do you realize that? And the fact that the Austrians cut us off from each other is just proof of those words. And don't let God happen that the current turns in this direction, that the stop in Slovenia will become uncontrollable, that you know, Slovenia is small, has no military power, we can't force anyone to accept from us those who are here back. [[…]] We can't force any of the neighbours, we can't force the home countries to do this. All we can do is beg. And because of this, if you realize it, then things need to be put forward so that they can't even get to such stalemate. But then things have to be radically different from what they've been set up so far. But what's already imported, all those hundred thousand who have gone through Slovenia, if anyone tries to return them to us, will have to resist with all means, and do not consider any warnings from here or there, or I don't know where. We simply do not have the means to control all of this. We don't have the financial resources to take care of all these problems. We ourselves have our own security problems and social problems. And to put an end to what is best proved – in this year's budget, the ruling coalition under the government has accepted EUR 123 million as migrants, and in the same package it has accepted that there will be no increase in pensions. In short, there will be no additional money for those who have paid a fair pension fund for 40 years, even though it should be by law and there is no problem for migrants 123 million. I'm sorry. This policy cannot be supported. It's unsustainable.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. We are moving on to a debate on the points of the proposal for a recommendation and on the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate the first point of the proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? The secretary wants a word. Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u62	Thank you. I think it is important that I call again, given that there are still some issues in the debate that are essential and that somehow have not been answered or at least they do not want to be heard. In fact, I have repeatedly explained in previous meetings what measures the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken, and yet today we are again hearing that there are violations, violations of European law, violations of Schengen, etc. Once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has acted in accordance with the instructions of the National Assembly, which ordered the Government on 2 September 2015 to consider the migration crisis a humanitarian issue, which is then reflected in practice by the police implementing Article 5 of the Schengen Code, which provides that, in accordance with the Regulation, a Member State may allow third-country nationals who do not meet one or more conditions for entry into its territory for humanitarian reasons. Therefore, in practice, in recent months, which I believe is very well known, it was that, in accordance with agreements with the Austrian police at the operational level, migrants were brought to the entry point regulated by the Republic of Austria for these purposes. In this way, the decision of the National Assembly, i.e. the high level of human rights and fundamental freedoms, was assured and enforced, since foreigners were not unduly held back, and in this way security was ensured, both for foreigners and for our citizens. And even if we take some time back, I believe that we all remember that in the past Slovenia has already tried to limit the flow of migrants. We were also involved in some negative consequences, i.e. the conduct of Croatia when the Croatian police sent them scattered across parts of the border where no entry points were foreseen. The government is therefore working with all measures, as it has explained in the introduction also from the broader foreign policy dimension of Minister Erjavec, to find all solutions that are still possible, to avoid or minimize the adverse effects. However, it is true, as we have said several times before, that Slovenia will implement all the measures necessary to ensure that Slovenia does not become pockets for migrants. In this context, too, it is an extremely important initiative presented by our President of the Government, i.e. to resolve the situation in Macedonia, which would bring a burden on our Schengen border, which would also prevent events that we do not want, i.e. this so-called second defence line of the European Union. Here, too, I must recall the meeting of the general directors of the police, which actually brought about an operational agreement in the absence of a European solution. In some ways, this agreement has actually brought a remarkable breakthrough, as in fact all countries have committed themselves to respect the Schengen Code, including those not yet in the Schengen area, and in fact to do what Greece should do on its border with Turkey. In short, the objective of this agreement is to reduce migration flows, which is essential, and this is in fact the equivalent of what should also be happening in Greece at these hotspots, of course, with the emphasis that no one later joins the migration flows that go through the Macedonian sieve. Of course, Slovenia, given that apart from Greece, is the only one in the Schengen area, will continue to implement all the additional measures it has to take with regard to profiling, with regard to the verification of the reality of the data, and in fact ensure that only those people who are actually entitled to aid come to Slovenia, i.e. to international protection, because, ultimately, these are also the conclusions of the European Council, and that we avoid unwanted returns. Of course, in the context of bilateral relations, which are extremely good with Austria, we must also regulate the numbers, which is to take into account the quotas set by Austria and Germany. Today we also talked about financial resources for our national security system and I agree – the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police are materially, human resources and financially exhausted. However, here I have to say specifically about the police, which is part of my domain, that the police have not exhausted the current government; we are actually regenerating it, and this is very successful. I can say that, and I have also said this several times, that in this good year, I have obtained additional funds for the ministry to be 87 million euros, which is actually a great success in relation to the previous years, which I have also spoken publicly on one of the first internal affairs committees, where I have also received criticism from the opposition, if I say anything about representing the Government, and I hope that the opposition will not hold any credit for these financial breakthroughs that we have done in the police field. Of course, it is also welcome that this success in providing financial resources is deepening. Because many bad decisions have been made in recent years, which have exhausted the police system, last but not least, the strike agreement comes out of 2012, and we are also solving this through the elimination of key anomalys in police and police salaries in terms of undervalue. Of course, the ultimate goal is to sort of completely regulate the career and salary system, completely regulate the status of a police officer. The ideal solution would certainly be for the police to get out of the single pay system, but we do know that the public financial framework is not so stable, is not so solid and does not allow it at this point. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. We were talking about the amendment to paragraph 1 of the recommendation, which the Government has. Procedural proposal, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u64	Thank you. Three things. First of all, we haven't even heard the government's opinion. That's interesting. I'd like you to point out what you've done. Secondly, when it comes to Schengen; if you can explain to the Minister of the Interior when people from Greece go out, they go back from the Schengen area and enter the Schengen area again in Slovenia. And this, of course, puts Slovenia in a very awkward position. Thirdly, drasticly, but really drasticly – and if you would like to pay special attention to this, the Minister – circumstances have changed in the target countries, the mood and the policies of the target countries. Therefore, referring to something that was adopted in Parliament many months ago under different circumstances does not drink too much water. Look, it would be time for the government to see this through. Esmeralda missed, but sooner or later the Slovenian government will.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to point 1? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The decision on the amendment and the proposal for a recommendation will be fully implemented today, following the end of agenda item 2. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a decision on the implementation of the powers of the Slovenian military in the wider protection of the state border. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. In the spring of Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that we have already addressed certain circumstances at point 1 today, which are also important with regard to this proposal for a decision, I am nevertheless giving further explanation on the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border. Therefore, in order to maximise the burden on the police and increase the effectiveness of border protection, last week the Government decided to propose to Parliament the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, which would allow this to be confirmed, exceptionally and temporarily granting certain exceptional powers to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, i.e. for a certain period of time, as provided for in the proposal for a decision. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be deployed to the most sensitive part of the green border, in accordance with coordinated plans and police guidelines. The Slovenian Armed Forces have already cooperated with the police on the basis of the existing Article 37 of the Defence Act, which allows the Slovenian Armed Forces to cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the state border within the State territory in accordance with the plans and the previous decision of the Government. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces do not have police powers in carrying out these tasks. In view of the fact that the police are the only ones responsible for protecting the state border, i.e. also under the State Border Control Act and the Schengen Code, I must say that cooperation with members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in carrying out the tasks of protecting the state border is very good. The Ministry of the Interior has submitted a proposal to the Government for the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, which was transmitted to the National Assembly on the basis of a police security assessment in view of the situation on the ground and also with regard to the forecast for migration in the coming period. The reasons for implementing these measures are also the necessity of the police's staff and material support. At the same time, the measure will relieve the police of their ability to carry out all the challenging tasks within the country. The current situation in which countries on the Western Balkan migration route tighten the entry or transit conditions will certainly cause a number of security problems related to migration flows, i.e. mass migrations as we receive them. Thus, some target countries of migrants in Northern Europe – Sweden, Denmark – have already implemented measures to limit the entry of migrants. In view of the strict criteria for entry and compliance with the rules laid down by the Schengen Borders Code, a large number of migrants are expected to be rejected. Also on the basis of our own and past experience, we can expect violations of public order and peace and other forms of violent expression, disagreement with the rejection and readmission measure. We expect migrants who will be prevented from crossing the state border to try to cross the border also in places where, in their view, they would have to cross the state border, i.e. at border crossings, particularly in cases where more migrants will be gathered at a given location. It is also necessary to take into account the experience from the events when Croatian security authorities have also helped foreigners cross the state border by targeting places where border crossing is easier, although we believe that this will no longer happen in the light of agreements with representatives of the new Croatian government. In view of this, it is essential to ensure effective protection or physical control of temporary technical barriers to the protection of the Schengen border with a view to preventing the destruction of the latter and preventing the unauthorised crossing of the state border. With the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, the Slovenian Armed Forces will be able to assist the police more effectively in the wider protection of the state border by exercising all those exceptional powers provided for by the Defence Act. The manner in which those powers are exercised is the subject of a detailed definition in the plan of action between the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian police and, of course, also with an order to implement this plan, but the primary task of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be to cooperate in protecting the green border due to the expected increase in classical illegal migration to the green border, which will, of course, bring police burdens on rejection at border crossings and, of course, will be the responsibility of the police in the first place. At the same time, in the introduction, I would like to support the supplement to the proposal for a decision made by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is to report regularly to the National Assembly through the competent working bodies, but we propose that this reporting should also take place when the next amendment to the Defence Act is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. For [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, mag. Branko Grimes, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u68	I don't want to spoil an idiot, but I would have one question. Today we are talking about the Slovenian Army, its powers, the activation of the article in the Defence Act. All I'm interested in is, according to my information, Mrs. Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence. So how's that today, actually?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. It is procedural for you to propose that the Minister of Defence give her opinion. I think she'll get involved in the debate. Now let's get on with it. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jean Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers! At its 28th urgent meeting, on 19 February, the Defence Committee considered the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the State border submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was attended by the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State, the Chief of Staff and the Director-General of the Military Intelligence Service, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and the Director-General of the Police. At its meeting on 17 February, the Government laid down a proposal for a proposal for a decision and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 18 February, pursuant to Article 37a of the Defence Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thus, a procedure for the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act has been initiated to allow the granting of exceptional powers to the Slovenian Army in providing and enhancing the effectiveness of the protection of the State border. Since border protection is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry was also the proposer of the delegated powers. Therefore, the reasons for the decisions taken at the meeting were presented by the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the police. In accordance with Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has come to consider the proposal for a decision. In an introduction to the explanation of the proposal, the Minister of Defence reiterated that the Slovenian Armed Forces, on the basis of a decision of the Government on 17 October 2015, is already carrying out the tasks of assisting the police in the wider protection of the state border and in the protection of certain facilities or areas in accordance with Article 37 of the Defence Act. By conferring powers under Article 37a, the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces shall remain the same, only new powers shall be added. As part of the preparations for the granting of exceptional powers under Article 37a, training of the key Slovenian Armed Forces staff has already been organised and carried out within the police, with the task of training all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who will carry out tasks in support of the police authorities. A certain amount of protective equipment was also collected for members of the Slovenian Army. To avoid different interpretations, the Minister also presented at the meeting a proposal for permitted procedures for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in relation to individual powers. According to the State Secretary at the MNZ, the reasons for the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act in the need for personnel and material support to the police are now and beyond. Individual European countries tighten the conditions for entry or transit of migrants and target countries have or will start implementing measures to limit the entry of migrants. Quotas are forecast, the structure of migrants is limited and a higher number is therefore expected to be rejected. In doing so, we can also expect violations of public order and other forms of violent expression of non-conclusion with the measure of rejection and re-treatment of migrants. Migrants who will be prevented from crossing the state border are expected to try to cross the border beyond border crossings and also violently. There is also a need to protect temporary technical barriers by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces at this time, and it is therefore necessary for the Slovenian Army to authorise the exercise of the powers referred to in Article 37a of the Defence Act in order to assist the police more effectively in the wider protection of the State border. The Chief of Staff informed the Committee that the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with the police, had carried out all the coordination in the past days. At the moment, there are no open issues in the field of police coordination with the Slovenian Army. The legislative and legal service examined the draft decision in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. Opposition Member Andrej Čuš warned in the debate that we are talking about this proposal absolutely too late; it is a month since a similar decision had been made on the Defence Committee but was rejected. That's how we talk after a month. Coalition Member Marjan Dolinšek expressed satisfaction that Slovenia is successfully facing the accompanying situation on the ground related to migration. As one of the stepping measures, the Government proposed to supplement the Defence Act with the possibility of granting exceptional powers to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The National Assembly has thus adopted a decision by a two-thirds majority and has given the Government an opportunity to request security conditions to activate this article. The Committee took into account all the comments made by the ZPS and prepared its amendments to the title and to paragraphs 1 and 2 of the proposal for a decision. At the end of the discussion, the Committee, pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, agreed by 11 votes in favour and none against, to adopt the amendments to the title, to paragraph 1 of the two amendments and to point 2 of the amendment. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a decision, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Vice President, once again. Messengers, MPs, ministers! The activation of Article 37a comes, as we have heard several times, absolutely too late. It comes in the light of acute situations and also comes as a clear forecast that the Government is aware that it will be difficult to control the migrant wave, that it will be difficult to defend the state border and that it will require greater involvement of the Slovenian Army. Despite the fact that in the Slovenian Democratic Party over the entire period – somewhere since October, when illegal migrants first appeared in Slovenia – we have been alerting the Government's inadequate responses, the inadequate and, above all, the untimely measures, in this case, we will be able to support the two-thirds majority decision. We are not doing this to save the coalition, but we are doing this in order to save and contribute to the security of our citizens and citizens, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we regret that you did not then support Members and Members of the coalition further indents of Article 37a of the Defence Act, when we adopted it, in which we would also lay down these extended powers of the Slovenian Army in the wider protection of the state border in the event of extraordinary events, that they are also empowered to protect the property of citizens and citizens. This has also been discussed on the Committee and I am sure that this will eventually prove necessary. The activation of Article 37a in the Slovenian Democratic Party is seen as an increase in some of the pressures, in particular the countries and the European Union, to limit this migratory flow. Even though the migration flow has calmed down over the winter, the spring months are coming, which will officially take place in one month, and as we have heard today, a wave of migrants is expected again. Under harsh conditions, Macedonia allows entry into the country only for illegal economic migrants who are from areas where they are persecuted for religious, political or other beliefs, says Syria and works Iraq. We see, however, that it has been decided that the Afghans will no longer be accepted, which is, of course, correct, because Afghanistan is currently a stabilised region. Nevertheless, we see a report that these 4,000 migrants, as many as those measures have left before the Macedonian border, are virtually beyond their control. The European Union cannot be united in any way as to what the right measures are to be taken. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the measures that have to some extent now begun to be imposed by Austria are, as a result, also by Slovenia and some other countries on this Balkan migration route. However, it would be right that when he clapped this wave across our country in October, we would begin to limit the matter. In this way, they would have sent a message that the journey to Europe along the Balkan route was closed and those who wanted to come in any way — even though they had closed their borders at that time, when the mass had accumulated and the protests had opened up — said that their entry into Europe had been disabled. This would seek out other ways, and countries should make sure that these paths are stopped. Unfortunately, Germany still insists on its own. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not agree here because we see that despite the promise of 3 billion aid, despite the promise of liberalisation, Turkey does not do anything to stop this migratory wave. Even more; despite all the navy Turkey has, despite all the navy Greece has, these migrants are still boundlessly crossing the sea between Turkey and Greece. And that the irony is even greater, then the two countries that are members of the NATO union, then they ask for help, and this generously sends out three ships of the Coast Guard. Which, on the one hand, makes sense. Then he is not called to restrict these migratory routes, but should do so by Greece alone. For example, how the United States behaves or how the United States solves this problem; there is a rule that when you step on American soil, then the United States is obliged to take care of you, and that is why they effectively prevent all these routes from the Bahamas, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Cuba to stop migrants already at sea. They have an agreement with all countries and return them. Three weeks ago, when we visited the Coast Guard Base in Miami with the Parliamentary Assembly Committee, we were shown this in practice. They've also shown us the numbers, and if they're anywhere, then they're effectively stopping this wave there. Of course, they moved from words to actions long ago. They know what migration means because they are also facing other problems, and this is the only one that is effective. But we're doing the opposite with us. But we boast of how Triglav rescues migrants from the sea, which of course is right, but instead of taking them to the shores of Libya, we take them to Europe. And by doing so, our ship Triglav is helping to solve migrants that are a problem in Europe. On such an issue as the activation of an article, when we send an army to the border, it is still necessary to look back, to review certain measures, including those in which the Slovenian Army has already been involved, to review their implementation. We have been constructively involved in the National Assembly at this time in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We supported all the decisions of the Government relating to the resolution of this migratory wave, while at the same time proposing our proposals, which were mostly in the legislative proposals, in the recommendations proposals and which, of course, you consistently rejected, were considered unnecessary and as a waste of time. In doing so, I would like to point out: when we adopted the amendment to the Defence Act, as we were applying this Article 37a, there was also a talk about these returnees, what, from a security point of view, when this issue of security was first opened, what to do with these returnees, with Europeans who went to more than 5,000 to fight in Daesh or ours in the Islamic State and are now returning. Well, here I remind you that in December 2014 – and since it was not adopted, then in March 2015 – in the Slovenian Democratic Party we proposed twice to amend the Penal Code, so we have tabled a amendment to the Penal Code in order to prevent the departure of Slovenians and Slovenians, our citizens and also foreign citizens crossing our territory, Syria, Iraq, parts of the Islamic State. In short, with the amendment of the law, we wanted to prevent terrorist acts from taking place. At that time, we were rejected in saying that we already had all these things criminalized and that we did not need a change in the Penal Code in this direction. If I am not mistaken, it is the Justice Committee, I do not know whether last week or 14 days ago he gave the Government the consent that it is necessary to change the law and prevent the trip to Syria to those who wish to participate not only in Syria, but also abroad, and to participate in terrorist actions. That is to say, a year and a half ago, when we proposed this once, when we proposed twice, you said that these acts had already been incriminated, and since last week, they have suddenly not been incriminated. In short, it is once again a political prestige that certain things have been heard, obviously, in view of what the secretary of the Old said and what is being said today, even with lies; only that one thing proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is not accepted, and now you will accept it exactly. [[…]] We have proposed a new Law on International Protection, which would only be an upgrade of some other measures, including to relieve the Slovenian Army in this way, and perhaps today not only would this activation of Article 37a be necessary, since it would thus strengthen the conditions for entry, to receive and grant international protection in order to become a virtually uninteresting state not only for asylum applications but also for crossing. We have requested references to an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we have proposed recommendations, all rejected. We have repeatedly proposed and convened meetings of the Defence Committee, on internal affairs, health, justice and always with all the conclusions, with all the recommendations rejected. Last but not least, even if the Commission did not have the majority of the intelligence and security services provided by the opposition Members, I am sure that we would have also been denied the conclusion that, although we thought that we would be familiar with the four scenarios, we would have been particularly aware of what had happened in the past, in short, a summary of the video clips of domestic and foreign media, but we have not heard anything about what was going on in the future. What's happening now that you've proposed is that you're sending more troops to the border, that's what Austria's doing, and that's what they're sending elsewhere. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this will not be enough that Slovenia does not have sufficient capacity, neither by the police nor by the military, to secure the entire southern border – 670 kilometers – we have already proposed to accept aid from abroad on 25 October 2015. At the time, it was rejected, then talked about a number of 400 police officers, now it can be seen that to protect this razor wire, whatever we call it a technical tool, and to protect the green border, it would take five times as much help from abroad. Well, if you have decided to send our people and to protect the Macedonian-Greek border, let me say this was the proposal of Slovenian Democratic Party President Janez Janša, on 18 November 2015, to immediately hold talks and to immediately agree Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia together with us, Austria and also the Multi-Gradian Group of States, how we will build this other defence wall, how we will establish a border for Greece, which is no longer of interest to stop this migrant wave. At that time, the media did not report much when it came to this 80 billion-dollar loan to Greece, as ministers were blackmailing both the European Parliament and elsewhere, so that, "wait, you will see, we will return everything to you in the form of migrants". And that these measures, which we are now taking, are only proof that Greece is trying to exert pressure on Slovenia not to make such decisions, because there is a danger that then migrants will flood Greece. That's not our problem. That's Greece's problem. She has one of the most powerful sailors in the world, she has the capacity to stop migrants, and if they haven't, they'll obviously have to do it now. At the same time, on 18 November, a timely start of diplomatic activities was proposed to obtain additional assistance either from Slovenia or from the Balkan country, which would start protecting its state border as the EU's external border. These are all the proposals that our President, Janez Janša, wrote under the entry "End of Europe", on November 18th. They were marked as destructive. December, January, February; after three months of this proposal, Prime Minister Miro Cerar presents hot water as just discovered and sells it as his own in Europe. We don't blame him. Thank God. Let's just blame him for not having his own ideas. There was also a debate on Article 37a of the Defence Act and when you rejected our proposal to include some other powers, there was also a debate on the setting up of technical resources at that time. On 28 October it was also proposed that already in August or July, when Hungary began to close the border, we should build this fence too, but I will not repeat this because we discussed this at the previous point. We should complement the Slovenian Army's voluntary reserve, as we warned on 28 October, when Janez Janša wrote to Cerar why he would not be on SNAV. There was a speech at the time – I think 28. In October, just a few days earlier, the National Assembly adopted this 37a section of the Defence Act – and it was clearly and loudly pointed out how many soldiers it was with the staffing composition of the Slovenian Army, and then it was marked as not a problem. Well, just last week, the government adopted a medium-term defence programme of the Republic, which, I assume, also because of this article 37a of the Defence Act, which we are going to activate today, I believe that without a vote against, the country will increase the Slovenian Army's reserve force considerably by the end of the year. And once again, if we did so on October 28th, these soldiers would be trained today. We would also be clear how many of these we can count on to respond to, because we know what the last call for the reserve was; of 700 people, 60% responded. And if we're going to hunt now, if we're just going to start looking now, the ZOB has not even been dealt with on the board yet, I'm afraid these problems are going to accumulate. As far as this is concerned, it is also related to refugee centres; this 37a section of the Defence Act speaks of the military being given powers in the wider protection of the state border. If you continue with what you have in mind, if you build and open new migrant centres, in addition to the fact that it is clear that it is missing or will be lacking, if this problem escalates, and if European countries are aware of the problem, what I believe that and believe that Austria is coming, will more and more of these people come. [[...]] The police will be understaffed, the military will be understaffed, but we know that we have accepted security powers to give the military additional powers only in the event of a border. What will it be like in the case of migrant centres? Where you count 4, 5, 6 thousand and more. There will probably also be a need for an army, but after that, Article 37a of the Defence Act, which has been extended to the interior of the country in the case of migrant centres, does not exist. I'm here calling on you to leave the idea of these migrant centers. Last but not least, I appreciate Mr Boss, who is making such a hard effort to set up this migrant centre somewhere. But I am sure that if Mr Šefic made so much effort as he is investing in where he will bring legal migrants – where they do not want them, not in Kidrichev, not in Shenchure, I now hear that a protest meeting in Lenart is being prepared for Friday – if he so much of his will is to put in search of solutions for the closure of the border, if not at the Greek-Macedonian border, I believe that today we should not have to discuss where we are or where we will not open the migrant centres. The difference between the number of migrants entering the country and those leaving the country should also be reduced. Now we're trying to do this in some way, and the problem is if these people start staying here. These quotas, they're already off the charts. At that time, we talked about 160,000 people who should be accepted by the European Union. At that time, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party supported this quota in some way, but we also said clearly and loudly – 160 thousand people are the limits that Europe can take care of. And they didn't show up at 160,000, and they came at 1 million and 300,000. And as Mr Janša said earlier, when it is time for us to accept those by the way, look at some countries, neighbouring countries of Ukraine, who are rejecting Ukrainians who are fleeing Russian aggression, and they are indeed refugees, but they are being rejected. [[…]] And by the time the time comes, the capacity in Europe will be full, and the capacity in Europe with these 160,000 would already be full. In short, we have proposed a number of solutions, concrete solutions were proposed: on 28 October and on 18 November and on 31 August, all last year, they were all marked as non-digestion. Specific solutions when SDS President Janez Janša did not attend the meeting of the National Security Council and proposed a number of points, which I have also been talking about, were identified as unconstructive and are now being implemented by the Government. This is said to be taking unconstructive measures, and I expect that you will also be coalition Members on what you say. In short, we will vote in favour and support the activation of Article 37a in the Slovenian Democratic Party, while at the same time calling on you to take the measures you will take in the future, if not already in time, and at least to be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u74	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you again! We passed the new Defence Act last October. With this we have allowed the National Assembly to decide, on a proposal from the Government, by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with the police, may exercise certain powers except in the wider protection of the State border. The powers and tasks laid down by the proposed law would be exercised by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces under the same conditions as those of the police, but only if this were strictly necessary and not more than three months. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we supported the amendment of the law because we are aware that we are taking all possible measures to protect the border, our citizens and also all migrants found in our territory. [[…]] In early February, the Ombudsman submitted a request for a constitutional review of the new provisions of the Defence Act and also proposed to the Constitutional Court that it be suspended until the decision was taken. In the view of the Ombudsman, the implementation of the law could have serious remedial consequences. The Ombudsman’s constitutional assessment was decided on the grounds that, according to their assessment, the powers in the amendment of the law were not sufficiently clearly and specifically recorded and were therefore contrary to a number of constitutional rights. In our Group of Members, we believe that there are no reasons to delay the implementation of the article and that the Ombudsman's assessments of the difficult remedial consequences are very flat-rate. On the contrary, difficult remedial effects could arise if the said article was not activated. This Article represents a necessary measure to enable the effective management of exceptional security situations. The Defence Committee last week considered this request and decided that the proposal to suspend the implementation of Article 37a of the Defence Act was not justified. In the Desus Group, we believe that the exercise of the powers set out in Article 37a of the Defence Act must be made possible as soon as possible. The government is proposing the activation of this article so that the military can help the police more effectively manage the migration flow and thus relieve it. The Government has also received a green light from the National Security Council for activation. Some target countries in northern Europe are already implementing measures to limit the entry of migrants, thus leading to the rejection of many migrants. Therefore, the Slovenian police will have to step up control of the external Schengen border to the extent that all foreigners who do not wish to apply for international refuge in Slovenia, Austria or Germany will not be refused entry into Slovenia. This should also take into account Austria's arguments that they will start to deny entry to economic immigrants, as well as the upper limit for the number of applicants for international protection that Austria can accept. In view of Croatia's past behaviour and its lack of cooperation in solving the migration problem, it is reasonable to expect that Croatia will not want to accept rejected foreigners or otherwise try to bring them back to Slovenia. Such behaviour may, however, result in a dispersed, illicit crossing of the external Schengen border on many parts of the border with Croatia. The police themselves do not have the resources to effectively manage such an extent of illegal migration. In Slovenia, therefore, in a relatively short period of time, there could be thousands of migrants who could not continue the route due to the tightening of protection and the introduction of temporary border controls by Austria. Given that some countries are already restricting the entry of migrants, which means that in a relatively short period of time thousands of migrants could be gathered in Slovenia, it is essential that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are allowed to exercise the powers provided for in Article 37a, paragraph 1, of the Defence Act. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of the confirmation of the decision to exercise the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border, or of the so-called activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. A further amendment to the Defence Act took place in October last year. In the circumstances at the time, the Government assumed that it was precisely because of unforeseen circumstances that it had to set up mechanisms that could be launched quickly and effectively, if necessary. Of course, we cannot talk about the special satisfaction of changing the law at that time. In these difficult times, however, we can be less concerned because, otherwise, today would be far more difficult to protect our borders effectively. At the beginning of the migration crisis, the circumstances changed, mainly due to the unexpected intensity of transitions. This pressure, of course, required action. At this point, we must stress that since October last year almost half a million people have crossed our territory. That our citizens and citizens, and I have repeated this many times, do not feel this to a great extent, is of course to thank the sacrifice of our police officers, who will not believe that they strike, soldiers, our firefighters, our humanitarian organizations, our health organizations, volunteers and, lastly, our local communities and mayors, especially the border communities. And last but not least, this government, with respect, acted in a coordinated manner and was a part of this six months ago unimaginable situation. Below the line, the coordination of all activities has been carried out in such a way that migrant transitions take place safely both for migrants and for our citizens. This first phase I hope we all think we've done well. The day-to-day event shows that this first phase and the first aid in debt will not be appropriate. Especially when we have seen that the reality on the ground is premature, relying on the expected common European solution. Brussels is being searched for, but on a Brussels plane, the leaders of the countries at home are facing problems that need to be addressed today and now. If the search for a common European solution has so far remained somewhere between wishes, proposals and compromises, this time the countries, especially on the Balkan path, have been forced to respond primarily to ad hoc, primarily by protecting their interests. And you can't judge them, Your Honor. The large-scale European dilemmas of how to stop the flow of refugees, at which borders to place stricter control, how to protect the Schengen, how to protect the European Union, are, as such, in some way in place, but melting among all these issues does not help individual countries. They also face great burdens within their borders. The response of European countries to the large influx of migrants, whose intensity will not change in the light of the situation, varies, and many times this diversity builds up in some way a gap over which it is increasingly difficult to place a trust bridge in some way. We have seen everything before; from humanitarianism, open-door policies, on the other hand, to insulating and closing borders. All this has been done, and today we are witnessing a silent rule that says, help yourself, because Europe cannot help you right now. Above all, the most heavily burdened countries have learned that the common European solution is currently a prisoner of the Brussels Conference Halls, and the reality is everything else. In other words, different combinations are found daily, but what if they seem to be endlessly large but that each bet only on its best combination. On the other hand, countries are forced to resolve their own equation of this crisis every day, which would result in a positive result. And this equation has a lot of unknowns. First of all, internal political friction. A few politicians are encouraged to act, perhaps not only in solving the migration crisis, but in doing their own political benefit. And secondly, predictions about the behaviour of neighbouring countries. These focus the problem, and above all shift attention to the neighbouring border. A similar story occurs at the neighbouring border in the neighbouring country and so on, the so-called domino effect. This is happening for as long as we do not reach the last phase of the third phase, this is the action of countries as a result of the actions of neighbouring countries, together with the actions or omissions of all countries before. So it's being solved by a pattern, solving my problem is more of a problem for you, because this common European solution is not yet in sight. And at the end of the question, why do we need to give the green light to the military in order to somehow get additional powers? Due to the security conditions, in order to ensure effective control of the external Schengen border and the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, as stated in the decision. In the spirit already said, because our equation, due to the human resources of the police, the great efforts and the specificity of our green border, will not come out otherwise, respected. Or in this way, we can ensure the protection of the border and thus the security of our people and their property. No one, but no one can be satisfied with this action today. Above all, today is no place or time for us to focus on this issue in addressing this issue, which says that we are doing what we are doing because of some political aspirations. The fact is that our neighbour Austria has taken measures these days that can have a very bad outcome for us without activating this mechanism. It is the responsibility of all of us today to prevent this from happening in accordance with the principles under which the Law on Defence has changed. Social Democrats will support this proposal for a decision on the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The government's task is to prevent a humanitarian disaster. This is what the President of the Government said on 10 November last year, and this must not be the last starting point for today's decision. The task of the Government and state authorities is to ensure safe transport to those refugees who will only cross our territory and decent accommodation to those who will apply for international protection in Slovenia. The government is currently doing everything to prevent refugees from crossing Slovenia and from staying in Slovenia. The granting of police powers to military personnel is part of this plan. Therefore, this measure hampers the execution of a task which I repeat is the prevention of a humanitarian disaster. The government is therefore, in principle, aware of its responsibilities, while at the same time implementing measures which are contrary to it. The reason for this is an unjustified fear of refugees who have a basis in racism. In the spring, six months before Slovenia crossed even one single refugee, the government rejected the European Commission's proposal for security risks. Currently, there are fewer than 340 refugees in Slovenia. Over the past week, our country has crossed an average of 550 refugees, at least since the start of the refugee crisis and less than a fifth of the Austrian quota. Nevertheless, the Government is at this very moment sharpening measures against refugees and expanding the repressive apparatus with members of the Slovenian Army. The government has apparently completely succumbed to multi-urban syndrome. The less refugees there are, the more resistance to these fugitives. What does that tell us? The resistance comes not from the poor experience of the majority population with refugees, but from racist prejudices and irresponsible propaganda, and the same applies to Slovenia. Who's protesting refugees today? Does he protest those thousands of volunteers who worked directly with them? Do Dobovčany and Šentiljkians protest where reception centres are located? Do the Postojnians protest where the foreign home is? Look, no. Protests take place in places where so far there have been no refugees, where there are virtually no immigrants. They are protested by people who have no experience, let alone bad experiences. They are protesting on the basis of right-wing propaganda in which the Government participates and has participated before the refugee crisis even began. In the United Left, on the other hand, we come from facts. And the facts show the following. According to President Faymann, neighbouring Austria has adopted 100,000 refugees. Not only did she transfer them, but they also settled them in Austria. In Slovenia, by the end of January, 158 people had been applied for asylum because of the refugee crisis. They've granted international protection to only five. Together with them today, there are 341 so-called refugees on Slovenian territory. The government has proposed a decision on the powers of the military due to tight security conditions. We answer that we do not recognize this assessment because we do not feel threatened by 341 refugees who are constantly under strict police supervision. Since the start of the refugee crisis, rational debate has been impossible precisely because we have completely different assessments of the threat. The task of the Government under international humanitarian law and the general principles of general humanity is to help as much as it can. In fact, the government has been doing everything to reduce aid to a minimum. Yes, it is true that it allowed transport, but at the same time it has done everything possible to keep as few refugees as possible in Slovenia. At a meeting of the Committee on Friday, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior said with satisfaction that Slovenia had returned more people to Croatia than Austria had returned to Slovenia. And that's what the government's been doing all along. Instead of contributing to Slovenia's share, the government was only working to avoid becoming a target country. The position of the Socialists is quite the opposite. During the worst refugee crisis since World War II, it is only normal for Slovenia to become a target country. Slovenia must also help the victims of the war, although it is not our fault, but our Euro-Atlantic allies from Washington and London to Ankara. And Slovenia is really capable of doing this. During the Balkan wars, we have received 70,000 refugees, and we are now hearing that the situation at that time is incomparable to today. The question is, Why would this be uncomparable? Of course, people fear that refugees will occupy their jobs and that poverty will increase because of them, but it is important to know that even in 1993 there was a lot of poverty in our citizens, and in 1993 many of our citizens were unemployed, but neither poverty nor unemployment increased due to refugees. Then someone will say that Bosnian refugees were different, that they spoke a similar language, and that they were part of the same culture. It is good that we all have such a position today, but it was in 1993 that the proposals for the review of 170 000 citizens under Article 40 were addressed in this Parliament. And the state authorities have also implemented a policy of erasure of 25,000 legitimate residents at that time. Next, many Bosnian refugees have moved to countries where they do not speak Slavonic languages. Syrian and Iraqi refugees will in fact take longer to learn Slovenian, will take longer to explain our administrative rules to them, but in the last instance they differ from Bosnian refugees only by race. And under no circumstances should we allow decisions to be made on a racial basis regarding the taking of refugees. The money that the Government spent on barbed wire and forcibles should be invested in the preparation of refugee centres, as we had in the 1990s. Currently, according to official data, we have 8,000,313 seats in the accommodation centers. Well, we could have asylum seekers here. Then we have a thousand more cities for a more permanent accommodation for refugees with recognised status. And we have examples of good practices in the municipal municipalities, both in Italy and in Austria. There are 4.5% of refugees in the Iron Chapel, but they have no security problem or a security threat simply because these people are allowed and allowed to live a normal life as humans. Investments in infrastructure, health insurance and personnel working with refugees are investments in our own infrastructure, in our own health system and in our own people. So there's nothing more to it than manipulation of how much refugees are supposed to cost us. None of the 450 thousand refugees who drove through Slovenia received a single cent of the euro, just lodging and food. Profits from transports were made by state-owned Slovenian railways. Those 158 asylum seekers received 18 euros in allowance, while the remaining costs are in fact the income of the asylum home and the employees of the Ministry of Justice. Those five refugees, who were recognized as having received one-time financial assistance and accommodation in an asylum home, all the other costs are paid by our health workers and officials. In addition, a large part of these costs are covered by European aid. So let's not get carried away, the refugees are not the parasites that live on our behalf. The Government is responsible for assessing the security situation, so it must decide; it can listen to targeted SDS protests that have not even seen refugees, or it can listen to the experience of thousands of volunteers, police officers, soldiers and health workers who in practice prove that Slovenia can fulfil its general human obligation every day. This brings me to the details of the proposed decision. If we leave a fundamental reservation on the part of the United Left, we oppose this decision for two reasons. First, because the security situation does not require an increase in repression, secondly because there are no provisions in the Defence Act to protect the fundamental freedoms of both foreigners and our own citizens. With regard to the security situation, our first conclusion is that the Government's reasoning is contradictory. On the one hand, the military would need police powers to ensure the safety of the refugees themselves. Of course, it's clear because a large number of people are concentrating on smaller incidents. And that's why we're saying that refugees need to be installed in smaller facilities as soon as possible. Above all, we must base our assessment of the security situation on facts. Currently, there are 336 persons in accommodation centres and 4% of the capacity is occupied. In the last week, Slovenia averaged 550 people, saying less than a fifth of the Austrian quota. And Slovenia has returned more refugees to Croatia than Austria has returned to Slovenia. All of this data shows very plasticly that there is no reason to increase security measures in accommodation centres. So, on the one hand, we have a government claiming that the military must be given police powers to protect the refugees, while at the same time we are facing a situation in which the refugees are getting less and less. On the other hand, we have a police force which warns that the illegal crossing of the state border will increase as the conditions for entry into the country are tightened. The police here are certainly more honest and honest than the government. What the police say means that government restrictions on the entry of refugees will not improve the security situation, but will make them worse. The problem of the measures taken by Austria, Slovenia and other countries is not only that they are contrary to international law. Prior to this crisis, the average time taken to resolve the request for international protection was 79 days. It took so long to determine whether someone met the conditions. Today the police are rejecting people simply because they do not have personal documents or because they are not from the right country and, of course, it is not possible to determine the actual situation. However, the number of refugees who are in exactly the same position as those who have been sent forward is increasing. And instead of accepting these people legally and organizedly, the government leaves them to human smugglers. You probably all remember the children's corpses in the Aegean Sea or 80 dead refugees in the fridge of an Austrian truck. Such scenarios should be prevented and can only be prevented by organised reception of refugees. The time to figure out the details comes after these people have already been installed. So the soldiers will not protect the refugees in the accommodation centres, they will hunt the so-called illegals, so that they will not "dislocate into the interior of the country", as the chief of police says. And here we must firmly say that we have witnessed something similar in this country in 2002 and 2003, when it was also detected after 300 illegal border crossings. And these people didn't spill out across the country, these people didn't endanger the safety of the citizens, they just wanted to cross our territory as undetected as possible. Illegal border crossing is a security problem for refugees, not for citizens, of course, except for those who are not interested in solving the humanitarian disaster, but would like to play the guardian of the Schengen on a foreign basis. In 2002, the police were responsible for this dirty work, and now we would like to make use of the Slovenian Army. It's like no one's learned anything from the experience of Italy and other countries. Instead of accepting these people in an organized manner, we are spending money and people to stop them, and the government is boasting about it as a diplomatic success. In the end, only criminals profit. These illegal refugees have no place to go, but in the end, you take care of them, or you deport them. Why don't we just admit it right now instead of spending money and resources on repressive measures. Repressive refugee policy is not only contrary to international law, but it is really part of the problem, not part of the solution. From this point of view, it doesn't matter whether it's done by cops or by soldiers. However, it does not matter in terms of the dignity and rights of the refugees. Here, however, we are talking about interventions in personal freedom and about interventions in the right to movement. And all such interventions should have a legal basis, should be legally defined and there should be effective control and appeal procedures for all. But when the National Assembly adopted the amendment to the Defence Act, none of this was defined. You can check this for yourself if you compare the responses of the President of the Government at the then meeting of the Board with the replies at this meeting. Just now, five months after we passed this law, we were told about what crowd control means, what a temporary restriction on movement means, and it is only now that the representatives of the ministry have said that the soldiers will not be allowed to use force against refugees in any case, except in force of course. There is also a clause in the law that the military must inform the police as soon as possible about the use of powers. The government now ensures that soldiers will only operate on patrols with police officers who will determine the operation of patrols, but there are no restrictions in the law itself, there is only a third point that allows the military to operate independently. We received only oral explanations on such concerns. Tomorrow you will send the army's parties to the border, but today there is no law in force, let alone a law in this country where this would be defined, and this is undoubtedly an anti-constitutional act. The powers to intervene in constitutionally protected rights must be defined in the law and this is not the case in our legislation. What the representatives of the ministries have told the Members is said to be included in the police conduct plan and in the rules of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Currently, it is said that these provisions exist only in the drafts of some internal acts which none of us in this National Assembly have even seen. And it's not just about powers and procedures being set back. This is simply saying something about the credibility of Members who have adopted a constitutionally contested law before it was even clear what is being adopted. The Government, which promised ethical rebirth at the elections, would be expected at least to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court; if not for a substantive decision, at least for a detention decision. But you're gonna have to clean this up with your constituents and the Constitutional Court. From the point of view of refugees and citizens who will be subject to these measures, it is clear that these drafts, which we have not seen before, do not allow for adequate supervision and appeal. The relevant appeal procedure is prescribed in the Police Act and there are no elements of the supervisory procedure in the Defence Act. If anyone today thinks that the police have exceeded their powers, he can appeal to the Police Complaints Branch within 45 days. The Senate shall then act on the basis of rules which are known in advance. There's a court order. On our explicit question, how will the appeal procedure, if any, be conducted for soldiers in this situation, be answered that this appeal will be addressed by an ad hoc body composed of military and police representatives. This is totally unacceptable. For the first time, it is unacceptable because it is not clear to whom a person can complain. If he complains to the officer in charge, it is about as if the police should complain to the police commander of the police station. This is not a fair hearing, and that is why we have this special Police Complaints Branch in the police department. Secondly, nowhere is the appeal deadline defined. And for the third time, under what rules will the Mixed Commission decide? Powers are not defined in the law. How, then, can it be judged whether these powers have been exceeded? In the United Left, we will vote against it. The proposed measure stems from the wrong definitions of the problem we are facing. The number of refugees has been the smallest since the crisis began. Procedures and personnel have been avoided and the risk of refugees has not been increased and the security of citizens has not been increased. Only human smugglers benefit from the violent stopping of refugees. Funds should be allocated for organised reception and accommodation, not for the capture of illegal refugees, which should be taken care of in the end. And we practically have no refugees in Slovenia. In the current situation, this is not normal. However, it is normal for Slovenia to provide protection to people who clearly need it and who are in trouble. And the government must decide whether it will come from the demands of a few hundred insidious protestors who have not even seen the refugees, or whether it will be based on the practice of thousands of volunteers and policemen who daily prove that Slovenia is able to help. Of course, we will not come from racial prejudices, but from positive practices, so we will vote against them. To conclude, however, let me add that the entire political class, from SD to New Slovenia, is dealing with the refugee issue with repression and is doing so at the same time as it directly and indirectly supports foreign bombs and the occupation of the Middle East. Look, this is a hypocrisy at the expense of the nations between Morocco and Iran. And that's hypocrisy, and it's not the last thing he brings with him is bloody hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u80	Good evening. If we are trying to use statistical data – because it will not feel that we are politically manipulating or creating fear in this country – then my predecessor would probably argue that we have more than 100,000 people unemployed and that there are 300,000 people at the threshold of poverty. And it's in a two-million-dollar Slovenia. If you add to this that Austria strengthens security at its border or is being fenced up, increases the number of soldiers, reduces the number of people who are willing to accept them, and if you have information that there are at least 10,000 people in Greece already waiting in Greece today who want to continue their journey northward, then it is likely that it can happen very quickly that there are, five, ten, maybe twenty, thirty, maybe up to one hundred thousand migrants in Slovenia. This number is not intended for intimidation, but this number depends on how many will come from the south and how many will Austria be willing to accept. However, given that the number of people who Austria is willing to accept is significantly decreasing, it is clear that Slovenia must respond. Therefore, if the entire Parliament, including the United Left, should go a little bit from their ideological frameworks and perhaps listen to their ideologist Slavoj Žižek, who tells them that false humanitarianism is damaging. If we add a few thousand migrants to all the problems that Slovenia has for all the unemployed, what have we done for all these people? What have we done for the country? We've created more problems and more poor people. If this is the humanitarianism spoken of by the United Left, then let them speak clearly and out loud. To be humanitarian, to open all the prisons on our southern border and accept completely everyone who wants to come to Slovenia. Where are we gonna put these people? How many will sleep with Mr. Kordish? How many will sleep with his other colleagues? I'm afraid if we do these things uncontrollably, then our train stations will be all over the country full of people who will stay there overnight because we don't have any other shelters. We don't like to talk about these things, but I think even our government's information has been that we have a capacity there between 5,000 and 6,000 overnight stays or beds so that we can offer so many overnight accommodations to migrants. But these numbers are obviously uncomfortable to talk about, because of course we or at least some of us pretend to be terrible humanitarians and that by opening the border we will solve all the problems. It is fair to say that the very open borders cause problems and even encourage a number of people who might not even make a decision. But the temporary peak is here, I'm going to go back to the beginning, but I had to react in some way, because Mr. Kordish in his ideological drive comes for a pay phone, spits us all out, teaches us how to do things and then goes away, but I know this tactic. If I say so in general, I would say that the migrant crisis has certainly shown a real picture of Europe and that we have 28 very different countries in the European Union, which also have very different values; some countries have even encouraged migrants to come as welcome, others we have set up fences because we are aware that our options are not boundless. But we do not have the united countries of Europe, as they do across the United States of America, and in the event that the two countries cannot agree, then the matters can be settled and forwarded by the federal government. However, when countries cannot agree in the European Union, the European Commission has nothing to do with the main competences of the Member States in these matters. And then we walk in a vicious circle when the prime ministers call for how ineffective the European Commission is and thus the European Union, and at the same time the President of the European Commission encourages the Presidents of governments to act and fulfil what they have promised. Or, if I am very specific, our President of the Government is going to Brussels with great expectations, what will happen there and what will happen if Europe takes care of our problems and, on the other hand, the President of the European Commission expects him to act in one way or another. And here, according to my assessment, some false expectations are being created and Euroscepticism and a negative picture and image of Europe are being strengthened. But the fact is, in this migratory crisis, it has proved that the Member States have been in disagreement or that they have all seen a different way of dealing with this crisis. Member States also had different absorption capabilities; while there is no problem for Germany to accept half a million people, the problem for Slovenia or Hungary is already 5,000 people. So when we draw the line, we can finally figure out that if we don't help ourselves, the others won't. If we know this basis, then we can prepare ourselves appropriately for all future events. Can the fence we set on our southern border prevent people from entering the country uncontrollably? The answer, of course, is no. The fence itself can't do that. It takes a living force or, if you want, a team that will also actually defend this fence. But we know that we have an exhausted police force and not the most motivated Slovenian army, but what we have, we have, and we have to work with it. Today we will activate Article 37a of the Defence Act, which gives the military certain police powers. What does this activation say? It certainly says that we expect additional pressure from our southern border, because it would be illogical for us to expect the flow of people from the south to decline significantly, while at the same time engaging the army further. Apparently, even Slovenia, although the Government does not make this clear, expects the pressure on our southern border to increase in the future. We will certainly not have our southern neighbour Croatia here, who has even more problems than we do, and will certainly look for all the possibilities and ways to get migrants to Slovenia as quickly and as quickly as possible. This information is also supported by facts that say that those migrants who have been rejected by Slovenia and sent back to Croatia are simply transferred to Zagreb and released from Zagreb to seek their way back to Slovenia. Surely there are well-founded indications that the pressure on our southern border will increase. In previous points, we have talked a lot about developments in the Middle East, including in Turkey and Greece. Surely we can expect unpleasant images from our southern border. It will certainly happen that a certain group of migrants will want to prevent the fence and our security forces, in which case the police and the military will have to prevent it, and at that moment our southern borders will come with very unpleasant images, but so it is. When engaging Article 37a of the Defence Act, we must also ask how capable the Slovenian Armed Forces are at all to provide soldiers on our southern border. Our estimate is that more than 800 soldiers are definitely not. Given the length and intensity of this crisis, it can happen that in time this team will also be exhausted and, of course, Slovenia will be in trouble. One more thing I would like to draw attention to is the excessive expectation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. However, this article allows the military to warn and travel. If I say a little domestically – the army will be allowed to protect our southern border and also protect the fence, it will only be allowed to warn and direct with words. But it will only be able to use physical force in force. On my particular question to the Chief of Staff, what would happen if a group of migrants used special pliers, damaged the fence and walked it freely, was his answer that if it were not an attack on Slovenian soldiers, which I doubt would happen, the army would only be able to warn and direct. However, a key moment or key action will still be taken by the Slovenian police. So it is also clear to people that the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act is not some miracle stick that will solve all our problems at the southern border. I will conclude by concluding that, according to our assessment, it is necessary to ensure an important and very high level of security in Slovenia. This can only be ensured if we have a thorough review of who enters Slovenia, that we have some kind of control over it. Unfortunately, at this point, our neighbours do not trust us to do these things effectively. Because if our northern neighbours were to believe that we would effectively control our southern border, they would probably not accumulate their forces at their southern border or at our northern border. Why is this important? Because it depends on the future of the Schengen. The collapse of Schengen or the exclusion of Slovenia from the Schengen can mean a real disaster for our economy, so we must do everything in our power to prevent it, and at least what we can do is to engage the Slovenian Army at our southern border. For this reason, the New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act or of the Slovenian Armed Forces obtaining police or part of police powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Followed by the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have spent quite some time discussing how urgent and important it is that the National Assembly is, of course, regularly and appropriately informed of the plans and measures of the executive branch. For these Members of the National Assembly, as representatives of the legislative body, then not only do we understand them better, but we also make a final decision on them in many cases. And I am very glad that we have been united in the dominant majority on the view of this mission today. The country's response to migration flows has, of course, become not only a constant but also a red thread of the state-efficient functioning of our authority, both coalition and opposition, both within the framework of local, national and international emergence. As one of the possible so-called stepping-up measures for the management of migration issues in the country, we adopted, at the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 21 October 2015, with a convincing state-warning Czech-Alician majority, a supplement to the Defence Act submitted to us by the Government. Aware of the limited human resources capacity of our country in responding to the growing migratory flows, while at the same time learning about the slow and inefficient, even by some countries that do not understand the European Community's common response to the problem, we have legislated the possibility of activating temporary exceptional powers to the Slovenian military in cases and, subject to closer cooperation and assistance to the police in managing the security risks associated with migration flows in our country. Until last week, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, both at home and at the international dance floor, focused all efforts on the fact that the amendments to the law did not need to be activated. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by the President of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar, has been proactively involved in the search for common solutions at EU level, despite the fact that many commitments from the international environment at the end have not been fulfilled within the agreed deadline and scope. The Slovenian Government is still insisting on the need to seek and support a permanent European solution that would not endanger the Schengen order and the free movement of persons as a civilizational achievement, while at the same time providing assistance and protection to all who are entitled to it, in accordance with the humanitarian and solidarity principle. This moment of such a solution that all EU countries would agree on is not yet visible. More. It even seems that we are very far from accepting it. In the meantime, in the absence of a European solution, the target country of refugees and migrants in northern Europe and the countries on the so-called Western Balkan migration routes have begun to tighten the conditions under which refugees and migrants are allowed to cross their territories and access to international protection. In the light of these recent developments in our wider and narrow neighbourhood, and in the light of the forecast of new strongly strengthened migration flows along the Western Balkan route in the coming period, the situation of our country is ahead of the new challenge. It is realistic to expect that these new circumstances will put great pressure on our southern green border, and consequently the need for the State to continue to manage such a new situation in a safe and effective manner. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we trust the assessment of the Slovenian security and intelligence authorities, detailed explanations of the current security situation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the consensus opinion of the National Security Council, that on the basis of the conditions described, everything must be done to continue to ensure smooth management of the migration flows in terms of ensuring security conditions in the country. For these reasons, we therefore assess that it is justified to support the temporary activation of implementation in the law of precisely defined and replaced police powers of the Slovenian Army in the wider protection of the state border. In addition, we would like to recall in particular that in the activation of the said Article of the Defence Act a number of guards have been installed, which restrict these exceptional powers of the Slovenian military and also closely monitor their implementation. Today's activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is confirmed for a period of three months and is decided by a two-thirds majority of Members present, as provided for in Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. With this aim, in the event of a convincing argument, we will also support the proposed amendment by the SDS Group to the SDS Group, which imposes on the Government, at the time of activation of Article 37a, on the contrary to the knowledge of the competent national working bodies of the National Assembly within one month of the entry into force of the Decision and with another report after the expiry of this Decision. Members and Members of the SMC Group will therefore, in the light of the responsible, state-of-the-art concern for the continued smooth functioning of our country and ensuring the security of both our citizens and citizens, as well as of refugees and migrants, we will therefore unanimously support the proposed government decision to exercise the powers of the Slovenian military in the wider protection of the state border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has Matjaž Hanžek, to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Since Comrade Kordish has said almost everything I think about what the United Left thinks about this decision, about this marriage, I would only stop at a few of my impressions that I got in these two days a few years ago, or maybe 15 years ago, dealing with refugees, migrants, as you tell them, but refugees. 45 years of leaded time, as some call it, I survived without an iron curtain. Now, in a period of democracy, in a world without borders, we close ourselves with a barbed cutting wire. We are closing in on our little world of intolerance, inhumanity, carelessness and egotism. We are closing ourselves in front of people who have been helped to make refugees who are fleeing the bombs that the West, Europe and our NATO allies have been sending over their homes, schools, hospitals, roads and destroying their survival. But the police and the military around her aren't for the fugitives. Any refugee who crosses for example half the border river will be in Slovenia and we will have to take care of it whether there is a fence or no fence. A completely fabricated and unnecessary thing. Clearly, each repression is due mainly to its own population, and this radicalisation of some imaginary security measures at the border is due to Slovenia and Slovenian citizens, not because of refugees who will come to us in one way or another and go ahead and everything else that has already been said. The point here is this line, to cause fear, to cause humility, to cause people to rule and, of course, to rule. This is the essence of everything, and all excuses, how we must defend ourselves against refugees, are drawn out of the vine as we see; I have not heard any serious argument. "We don't need any migrants in Slovenia," was said. And that's what people who sow fear say. And who, years ago, when Slovenia joined a coalition of willing to give a green light to attack Iraq, said it did not support killing people? Was it one of you who spoke like that now, how do we have to protect ourselves from those who had the courage, the will or the compassion to demonstrate against helping to send bombs there? I remember a little bit more, I think I was the only one who, at the time, as an officer before Parliament, demonstrated against the attack on Iraq. But now that we have the consequences of our own actions, we have become insanely careful at one time or another. Has anyone protested against the attack on Afghanistan and Syria and Libya and so on? Has anyone with a sense of mercy raised his voice that a bomb should not be dropped on people, even though they live there somewhere far away? Is one of those people you're discussing today what they're going to bring to the enemy fugitive at the time I said I didn't hear the words. [[…]] If fear is present, there is no economy, no democracy, and so on, it has been said. And that is what those who constantly sow fear in Slovenia say. The right opposition in an environment of fear seems to be working well. Of course, the government and the government coalition are helping her. Only by constantly talking about security, hatred, and fear. Above all, about the fear that the tired, cold and scared refugees would bring here, those who fear for their lives and ask us to help them survive, and we act dead cold and even confuse them with this, "look how many unemployed we have in Slovenia." I'm sorry, it's not the refugees' fault for unemployment, it's not the refugees' fault for poverty, it could be called new racism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u85	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u86	Dear fellows and fellows, a fine evening all together! The surroundings, the Balkans, are excellent in gimmicks or whatever – the prison of the Macedonian-Greek border. At the same time, it is worth remembering or asking whether this prison will withstand this fence and, secondly, what are the additional circumstances in doing so. For example, that Germany is not too pleased with this initiative that has become official and, of course, that new routes can then be opened, is also possible from Albania through the Adriatic Sea to Italy. And then we can expect, in this case, one small cemetery or a large cemetery in the Adriatic in view of this new influx, if it went from Albania to Italy. Furthermore, confidence in Slovenia is now partly curtailed, at least by Austria. Otherwise, Austria was to strengthen its southern borders from day to day, so on the border with Slovenia. Somehow there is also a legitimate fear that it is a new Schengen, and Germany's announcement, when it gave the European Commission only 14 days to make things right, or else it will begin to sharpen itself, is not too promising. However, at least for the Republic of Slovenia there are two fears that may threaten us. Firstly, the return of migrants from Germany, Austria, Sweden and other target countries. Afraid to apply for asylum in Slovenia, for international protection status. If Austria returns thousands of people, these people here have the right to apply for asylum. And I appeal to the Government to press Austria properly so that they do not send their migrants who do not fulfil the status of asylum to Slovenia. Another fear, the target country can also become Slovenia. Given that access to other northern countries that are target countries for migrants is becoming increasingly impossible, Slovenia may soon become the destination for migrants. And in this case, in view of our broad-based asylum legislation – still broad-minded, despite the changes in legislation – problems may arise. And that opens two questions. This is a security issue and, of course, the ability, the economic capacity of the Republic of Slovenia, that there may be thousands of people in this territory. First, a security issue. Look, people are scared, they're worried. The government can see that for itself, people are afraid. And for the first time, we need to finally start communicating with people. Not to play the bunker at the Ministry, but to communicate with people, to give real and accurate information, not to decide the door to the nose. For you know, the memory of people watching events in Cologne and other European cities through television screens is very alive and before the eyes, and we also have security for one of the fundamental values. And secondly, the economic position of Slovenia, abilities. They are justifiably angry people who receive a minimum wage and, on the other hand, have information that the state is committed to – this is information from the Ministry of Finance – €833 per asylum, for a migrant of €40 per day. And then there are these tensions, justified tensions in this case, when people just demand better living conditions against migrants coming to our territory. But as for the next step, I have to finish slowly. See, in Novi Slovenija, Madam Minister, Mr State Secretary, we ask the Government to take more decisive steps, more decisive action against the migration crisis. For, as it appears, this, in this case we can also talk about the sociological phenomenon, will not be resolved at European level, nothing indicates this promise to be saved, and despite the arrival of a peace in Syria, this migratory flow will continue to flow. Syria; until the reconstruction of the country, it will be possible to do so for more than 10 years, and this migratory flow, when people all over the world are looking for opportunities in Europe, will not stop bringing peace only to Syria, but will be able to do so through a 10-year process, even if we look at the situation of Africa and also in view of the growth of the population in Africa. One of the more decisive steps is to defend the borders. And one day we're going to have to put a quota on our side, and one day you're going to have to tell people how much people this country is capable of accepting between us. And tell me if we're ready for 100,000. And that's why we can't bend it anymore, but tell people the truth, the facts. And defending the border, thanks to the police, we need an army with additional powers, not police officers, not to be mistaken, but additional powers. And the question is whether this will be enough in the case of more promising migrations in the spring months. Why am I saying this? Because I am somewhat in doubt, for the first time that this first line in the Balkans is called Macedonia, Greece has been effective or to sustain this, even in the face of pressure from some Balkan countries, Germany, which also has an economic interest that there are no 100,000 migrants in Greece. So dear Government, more decisive measures to protect the security situation of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u87	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mrs Andreja Katič and Mr Franz Breznik should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u88	President-in-Office or President-in-Office, thank you for the floor. The key to talking about the activation of the military is the assessment of the security situation by the Government. Today, there has been a lot of talk about these security conditions, but there will be no impression that we have an emergency situation. For six months now, our government has been facing the management and management of migration flows, and we can see that this process has so far been extremely well managed. We cannot say that there were no individual problems, of course they were in the area where this migration flow took place. Most people have encountered this migration problem only through television, but not through it lately, because it is not reported that much. No doubt it's a psychological fact that when you're in the vicinity of the migration stream, we're talking about the fears that are emerging. But what's interesting about the Del survey that was done in these days, what people are afraid of; the most fear of social issues, is whether they are employees, that's first. In second place, they are now really concerned about the large number of refugees or migrants in our area. What is interesting is that political extremism is placed in third place. They are extremely afraid of this, and in our Parliament, as I am hearing, we have it on one side and on the other. Let me say, and I think that we all know this, we just don't want to admit that both Minister Katičeva and Györköseva, both with their police and with the military and all other actors, have protected the interests of the Republic of Slovenia with their constructive and responsible cooperation. Slovenia is safe. And all thanks also go to Foreign Minister Erjavac, and I am not talking about the Prime Minister of the Government, who is probably one of the key players in solving the problem on the Balkan path, although we have heard earlier that someone else wants to tie the medal. And, of course, there is no reason that we would not trust our government now, because right between these two extreme demands that we are always listening to, our government wants to realize both — on the one hand, to help people who are in need, of course, according to their resources, because there was a question of how many of these we are able to do. We know we can't set the top number. On the other hand, of course, do everything possible to ensure that our citizens are not threatened and that they are provided with everything that belongs to them. So on the one hand, we have the humanitarian aspect and on the other hand the security aspect, and these two aspects can always coexist. And that's what extremes can't understand. And just stepping up these measures leads to both aspects being provided. Not taking action on the stock, but react when necessary. What our country wants to achieve is that Slovenia would not become pockets, so that it would not happen to be in the situation they are experiencing in some other countries, and the assessment of the security conditions for the activation of the military is based on events and on the measures that our northern countries are facing, and on the other hand, on the measures that are taking place to implement the conclusions of the European Council adopted on the migration flows on 18 and 19 February. These conclusions were: the rapid upheaval of migration flows, the protection of our external borders, the reduction of irregular migration and the preservation of the integrity of the Schengen area. So if we look at what it is that affects our security assessment and the reasons for the activation of Article 37a; Germany is returning economic migrants to Austria and returning them to Austria by the end of the year, it is estimated that 30 thousand by the end of the year. The German coalition is also considering tightening asylum legislation. Sweden is planning to execute 80 000 asylum seekers and is also sharpening with asylum legislation. Finland is planning the extermination of 20,000 refugees, the Netherlands is planning a direct return to Turkey and an agreement with Albania to join them. Denmark is also sharpening. What can directly affect us is happening in neighbouring countries, namely Austria. It's not that Austria doesn't trust us like it was said before. Austria and I work extremely well together, but it has also found itself in the situation that its capacity is limited and the introduction of the daily quota. So Slovenia must react to this and, of course, follow their actions, because otherwise they may happen to become pockets. And because of what Austria accepts, we have already sent a hundred soldiers to the border. But that doesn't mean we don't trust Austria, but we want to protect our interests. Of course, everything that's happening in the northern neighbours is triggering the domino effect. And here, of course, in Croatia, Serbia also plans to close the border with Macedonia, Hungary has also closed three border crossings through which a large number of refugees have been sent to them in the past. So these are all the measures that are going on in the north and the domino effect that they can and, of course, the danger that everyone will put pressure on the green border because of the changed way. At the same time, measures are taking place at the source itself, according to the Greek border, on the Macedonian border. There, as we know, NATO has already decided on patrol patrol patrols to contain mainly abuses by smugglers. For we need to know that in many cases these refugees are tools in the hands of smugglers, and now that the borders are closing a little bit, or this relaxed flow, they are looking for new ways to cross the green border or across the sea border, smugglers can smuggle their own in essentially the people they are trading with. In order to resist this current, Frontex is also in Greece; its purpose is to establish focal points there. One of these works, but it is also essential that registration has increased and from 8% to 78, and, of course, it also selects who are eligible for international protection and who are the economic migrants subject to relevant foreign legislation. These measures, which are taking place on the Balkan path, are not unilateral measures by our country, as someone is trying to say, but are concerted actions by all countries that agree. And the important thing is that on this Balkan path countries started talking to each other, exchanging information, and also committing themselves not to let people across the border if they were not properly checked and to cooperate with each other. Frontex is also helping at the Greek-Macedonian border and the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism has also been activated, including under the auspices of our country, and together 15 countries have offered assistance so that we can obtain the protective equipment and all the other equipment needed to provide accommodation or care for asylum seekers. The police of these countries on this Balkan route, both Austria, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, have signed declaration 18. 2. On cooperation in the joint profiling and transport of refugees, and this agreement has also begun to be implemented. The combined powers of the countries are also showing up in the workforce, so 83 police officers have already offered and are already participating in assistance to Hungary, additional assistance is expected, to Macedonia, and additional additional ones are expected, announced by Austria. So all of these pressures or all of these interferences of entry options can mean pressure on the green border, and this is what our government is aware of and wants right with the activation of an army to help the police, to prevent a scattered crossing across the border. We know what kind of terrain configuration we have and can then also mean expressing a certain dissatisfaction in our area if migrants do not get what they really want. Of course, the Government has an extremely ungrateful role to play in this, in migration issues and any government would do so would have the same position, so I think we are Members who will play a key role here. That is why I cannot possibly pass what we witnessed last week on the Defence Committee, but also what escalated in Shenchure and elsewhere. In fact, we have had an active call from Members to impatience, which I find extremely inappropriate, especially because this same party and their Members are constantly talking about how they work for the benefit of citizens and how they want to help the Government, only that the Government does not understand it. The fact is, people would probably never fight each other and there would be no war if politics did not create and exploit it. Let me conclude by saying that Slovenia is a safe country and will remain a secure country, as our government will do its utmost to ensure security for its citizens, migrants and, of course, for the benefit of neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u89	Ms Andreja Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Breznik and Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u90	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The responsibility of border protection and internal security is within the purview of the police and the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian Armed Forces, only cooperates on the basis of plans of the Ministry of Interior or police plans in accordance with the rules of operation of the Slovenian Armed Forces adopted by the Government. This may also be the answer to the obvious why, at the outset, the Minister of the Interior represented the activation of this Article. On the basis of the decision of the Government of October, the Slovenian Armed Forces shall carry out the tasks of assisting the police in the wider protection of the border and the protection of certain facilities or areas in accordance with Article 37 of the Defence Act. And by granting these new powers, if a decision is taken today to activate Article 37a, the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces do not change, but remain the same as they have been before, only new powers are added in the performance of these tasks. Perhaps I would like to list again the tasks carried out by the Slovenian Army so far. It is about carrying out the transport of police and equipment by means of freight vehicles or buses, helping to protect the border more widely by means of technical means, patrols and observation centres, assisting in the physical protection of the border, assisting in the wider observation of the border by helicopters, providing logistical support with available material and technical means, carrying out the transport of migrants by means of freight vehicles and buses, assisting the police in carrying out escorts to the transport of migrants and assisting the police in protecting collection and accommodation centres for migrants. The new powers and tasks defined in Article 37a are: alerting, travelling, temporarily restricting the movement of persons and participating in the management of groups and crowds. There are no members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who would be specifically involved in the exercise of these powers. The number of members involved will also depend on the demands of the police, as has been the case in the field until now. It is therefore not the involvement of members in the exercise of these powers, but the use of these powers in the exercise of the tasks to be used or exercised since autumn. When the question was how many members and members of the Slovenian Army would be on the ground; somehow as before, the maximum presence of members was about 800 times three, if we consider rotation, and of course all the remaining logistical support provided by the Slovenian Army and provided both civil protection and police in the resolution of the migration and refugee crisis. In order to exercise these powers, which you decide to activate today, a proposal is made to complement the cooperation plan with the police and the Slovenian Army, which takes account of these additional powers. And once the National Assembly has taken a decision on the granting of powers under Article 37a, the Government will also be given the rules of action of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the exercise of these powers to confirm. As part of the preparations for the allocation of these exceptional powers under Article 37a, training of the key Slovenian Armed Forces staff has also been organised and carried out within the police, whose task is to train all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who will carry out their duties in support of the police. Also, a certain amount of protective equipment has been collected for members of the Slovenian Army, as the military police have used on the ground so far. The rules of action of the Slovenian Armed Forces – in military language we call this rule of engagement – will be adopted by the Government immediately after the decision of the National Assembly, as I said. And in my opinion, it is one of the key documents in which the plan will define precisely the actions that members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with the police, can carry out on the basis of the powers they have been given, and these rules will also clearly set limits. The proposal is prepared, in line with the police, the Ministry of Justice, the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation and this proposal will also replace the current rules on the functioning of the Slovenian Army. To avoid different interpretations, let me present what is the proposal for authorised procedures for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in relation to individual powers. With regard to alerting; it is allowed to alert persons to circumstances that threaten or threaten public order. It is allowed to alert persons to circumstances that endanger or threaten life or personal safety. It is allowed to alert persons to circumstances that endanger or threaten property. Technical means of warning are allowed, in particular megaphone, warning board, tape. With regard to the power to temporarily restrict the movement of persons; it is permitted to empty and inspect the area, space or facility designated by the police. It shall be permitted to draw attention to the prohibition of access to an area, space or facility designated by the police. The marking of an area where a temporary restriction of movement applies by means of protective fences, straps or other means and the direction of movement may be determined. With regard to the travel authorisation; it is permitted to travel persons to that designated area by the police. Fourthly, cooperation in the management of groups and crowds; it is permitted on the basis of police instructions to set up fences or other physical barriers, including military vehicles, if cooperation in the management of groups and crowds is expected. And, pressing or any other movement of vehicles in the control of groups and crowds is not permitted. It appears from the fact that powers are very limited and somehow I do not understand those who in the same sentence praise the Slovenian Army, the Slovenian Police and all others who are successfully facing the resolution of the refugee and migrant crisis on the ground, but at the same time express their mistrust in their work by doubting or referring to the possibility of misuse of powers. Any use of these powers must also be reported to the police by the Slovenian Army. The self-absorbing of persons by the Slovenian Armed Forces will not be allowed, except in certain cases defined in the rules of action, that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces may temporarily restrict the movement of persons on the basis and under the order of the police. Despite the above-mentioned members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, even in the event of non-compliance or infringements by these persons, refugees or migrants will be said not to carry out procedures with them, but will inform the police, who have all the necessary powers to carry out legal procedures and measures. As a result, it is also coordinated with the police that patrols will be mixed as much as possible, i.e. a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces and a police officer who will have the authority to act. The draft rules of action also specify in which cases and in what way a member of the Slovenian Armed Forces may use force. All we're talking about is the force of violence and violence. So, I would stress that these are powers that are exercised exclusively in cooperation with and under the supervision of the police. Perhaps even with regard to the proposed amendment. I also agree with the proposed amendment. And as the Minister has proposed, we will also incorporate it into the new Defence Act, as we have taken all their comments into account in the drafting of this article so far. Finally, I would only add that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have been working hard, responsible, professionally together with the police, Civil Protection, other national authorities, volunteers have been carrying out tasks related to the resolution of the refugee or migrant crisis since October. And I am sure that these tasks will also be carried out in such a responsible manner with new powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u91	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare for Mr Janko Weber and Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be discussing at this second point today where I ended up at the first, because somehow my time was very short. The first part of my debate should be on the subject, this is article 37a of the reactivation of this article, which we have somehow amended some time ago. I must admit that at that time, my colleague Gorenak and I had, as a specialist, a strong specialist in the field of security, even a number of reservations about the four powers that members of the Slovenian Army should have if this article were to be activated, and they are very ambiguous. Let me say that the police powers that the police have in most European and also global countries have been verified, also legally verified, have been constitutionally verified over decades of operation and are very similar and have been followed by a number of conventions. Let me say that these powers, which are all referred to in Article 33 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, are a species. It begins by collecting notifications, i.e. inviting, alerting, ordering, identifying, seeking persons, carrying out covert recording, performing photo-recognition, producing photorobots, polygraphing procedures, setting up roadblocks with blockades, conducting security checks, inspecting persons, entering foreign apartments, seizing objects, conducting counter-terrorism checks, temporarily restricting the movement of persons, bringing persons and so on. These are a whole species and these procedures have been known for decades, verified and coordinated. So, this government, what is my great concern, was aware that if there was a greater threat to citizens and citizens of this country, it would therefore need the entry of an army. The military will therefore no longer act as a subcontractor, as we have just said, especially in logistics tasks, but also enters essentially with the work of police powers. All of these four articles, if we look – warn, travel, temporarily restrict the movement of persons and participate in the control of the crowds – are very ambiguous. At least two of these are very ambiguous. They travel mainly; what does it mean to travel? They can travel, I don't know, they can represent tables where refugees go, where they get better or what? This is not in the police powers known by the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. There is also no diction, "participating in the management of groups and crowds". I don't understand how they're going to cooperate, so if there's no police, or if that police officer is going to be reduced inside when a crowd rises. This will be a problem and there will be no legal coverage for representatives of the Slovenian Army. How are they gonna work? Will there be some of these representatives of officers, officers, soldiers who will cooperate? There can be numerous, including civil lawsuits. [[…]] Here are the cases that are open and which, as a former representative of the Slovenian Army, disturb me. Let me say, on the other hand, that the Slovenian Army has not been educated at this time, including this permanent composition and the reserve. We've had more than a year. Not only has some of these members been called upon, but they have not carried out a whole series of trainings where these procedures could somehow also be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, but a whole range of trainings on this subject would be done. That's the problem right now. At this point, we are giving the green light for the activation of this article, and the people of the Ministry of Defence, who are therefore not specialists for police powers, have not had these educations at this time. This is confused by any logic and does not go into a sphere where, at least for me, the activation of this article would indicate some of the effects that would be verified in accordance with these legal standards. Next thing you know. I used to say – the burden of these centres that are forming is therefore heading east. He always saved Slovenia east. Historically, when it comes to some help needed from the state, then the East remains alone when it comes to the security of the state, the East is the one who saves, we can say, the honor of this country. And again here Lenart with Black Wood; right now I get a whole series of notifications that people are angry, that people will even resist some demonstrations in Lenart this Friday, following some example from Kranj. So, people are unconscious for the first time, we have limited communication between the Ministry of Internal Affairs and local communities, that is, we can say, the truth. As early as September, when we had this Black Wood in Lenart, when he somehow activated himself overnight, he had no idea of this, nor of the mayor nor of the municipal councilors nor of their MP. I come from this area. Nor is it now that Blackwood has been re-elected as one of the locations, and this is where the security risk will be several times higher than it was in September, i.e. locations where people will be inhabited, who have not or have received a negative decision and will be returned to a country of origin. We can only imagine. Logically, these people are unlikely to tolerate this route or this accommodation. So the combination of an unspecified article 37a with the limited definition of these four powers given to the military and the increased security situation that will take place gives me some scepticism and also to citizens and citizens, and in particular to citizens and citizens in precisely these areas, which you have now chosen as scapegoats, which will have to save the honour, I say, of the late measures of this migratory crisis. And here I have some doubts. Of course, on the other hand, I see some state-of-the-art attitude, I am aware of the situation and also that we need to activate these conclusions. However, I warned a few months earlier that these conclusions should be examined, that they should be truly looked at, even by marriage, and that they must be unequivocal. And that's the problem that comes to me personally. Dear representatives of the Government, once again, I remind you that you are always a step or two too late to deal with the migration crisis, even today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u93	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Mr. Marjan Dolinšek and Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I think I can make an assessment that the warnings given in the previous year are somehow being implemented, that we can expect, of course, to limit the number of migrants in both Germany and Austria, and that at that moment, of course, Slovenia will become an exceptional security situation, so that they will become extremely difficult in Slovenia. And from the description of the events recorded in the explanation of the decision, we can see that these predictions are actually confirmed. Of course, it is a three-month measure and it is possible to renew it after a re-assessment of the security situation. However, if we look at the security situation and the assessment of the security situation, in fact, they only concern this event, i.e. the influx of migrants and, of course, the rejection of a certain number of migrants. At some point, however, we will have to ask ourselves, what about those who will actually remain in Slovenia, and whether we are ready for this issue. I think that this is the issue that we should be very careful to plan and manage today, especially in the sense of protecting, of course, all of our critical infrastructure, which is necessary and necessary for the normal functioning of the country, and that, above all, there are no worse attempts at attacks or, above all, taking control of critical infrastructure. To this end, I think we should be very serious already in preparing ourselves in a way that reorganises people, both in local communities and in municipalities, in short, in all those local environments where possible, predictable, so that we can also organise ourselves. Of course, this system was once built, abandoned and we are trying to rely solely on the professional performance of the tasks of both the police and, of course, members of the Slovenian Army. In view of the situation and the size of the problems that may arise, of course, I find it very difficult to expect that only the professional composition — despite the fact that some reserves have been activated — will be able to cope with all these situations. And I have already pointed out several times that, of course, timely training and informing people that they can also organise themselves. I think it is very important, at the moment when we are discussing this decision, that we have also maintained a very clear structure of command when amending or supplementing the Defence Act with Article 37a. It is very important that it is the police who will have control over the implementation of the activity and that the Slovenian Armed Forces actually provide support in these activities. In fact, the difference is, of course, the competence of police officers or members of the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army, if I can use this term, is more qualified for rough intervention, so it is of course very important that these activities are extremely well coordinated with the police. And these additions, which have also taken place in the very procedure for drawing up this Decision, I think they are very good, because they are also very clear about travelling or creating responsibility, command and control. The Minister of Defence also presented that additional rules were being drawn up, which would, of course, be an additional basis for the control of the entire system in command and for the non-abuse. Harassment was also one of those concerns when the Defence Act was being supplemented and perhaps overlooked or not, but in fact it was also considered that command would take over the Slovenian Army. This I think would be a very grave intervention in ensuring security within the country and, of course, at some point may also be an abuse of this power. This problem has been resolved and I think that we will really be really after these three months, since this decision will apply, we must sit down again and probably analyze the situation even when we have to deal with people who will be longer than of course migrants arriving in this area remain in Slovenia. I do not think that this issue has been well cleared, and I think it would be right to draw up a programme to deal with such situations as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u95	Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u96	Thank you, President. By conferring powers under Article 37a, the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces remain the same, only certain new powers are added in the implementation of the tasks already carried out by the Slovenian Armed Forces under Article 37 and have assisted the Slovenian Police. What have these tasks been performed by the Slovenian Armed Forces and helped the Slovenian Police so far? To include: the provision of transport of police and freight vehicles and buses, assistance in the wider protection of borders by means of technical means, patrols and observation centres, assistance in the physical, deep border protection, assistance in the wider observation of the border by helicopters, logistical support with available material and technical means, the provision of transport of migrants by means of freight vehicles and buses, assistance to police in carrying out escorts to the transport of migrants and assistance in the protection of collection and accommodation centres for migrants. The new powers given in Article 37a, and this article speaks to the following All who accompany us, to know why, why, once again, what this article is saying and why the powers of the additional, exceptional Slovenian army. [[…]] 37.a. gives exceptional powers to the military and says: If the security situation so requires, the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Government by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, decide that the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with the police, exceptionally, in the broader protection of the State border, in accordance with the plans and following the previous decision of the Government referred to in the fourth paragraph of the previous Article, shall also exercise the following powers: warn, travel, temporarily restrict movement, participate in the management of groups and crowds. All of these four additional tasks were a little earlier, and the Minister made every single point clear so that he would not repeat. Next. "The powers referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be exercised under conditions prescribed for police officers. They shall immediately inform the police of the powers conferred on them under paragraph 1 of this Article. The national assembly in the act referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall set a time limit within which members of the Slovenian Armed Forces may exercise the powers referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and which may only take the necessary time to carry out, but not more than three months. The period referred to in the previous sentence may be renewed under the same conditions." The reasons why we will activate this 37.a article today, which requires us to do so, are as follows: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its explanation, is justifying the decision to grant exceptional powers to the military by means of security conditions. In the view of the Government, the current security situation is tightened and can be further exacerbated by the tight conditions for entry and transit laid down by the Western Balkan countries and the restrictive measures of certain target countries in northern Europe, such as Sweden, Denmark. Then, further, strict criteria and consistent compliance with the Schengen Borders Code, which can be expected to reject a large number of migrants, thereby violating public order and violent expression of non-conclusion. Then, the expected increase in attempts to cross the border of the Republic of Slovenia beyond border crossings and attempts at violent crossing at border crossings. Options for destroying temporary technical barriers to the protection of the Schengen border. This can only be prevented by effective protection, in addition to the physical protection to be carried out. Next, the conduct of neighbouring countries, inter alia, the recent decision of Germany and Austria regarding the categories of foreigners to be accepted, and the statement by Austria concerning the establishment of the upper limit for the number of applicants for international protection. The threats that, as evidenced by the previous behaviour of neighbouring Croatia, could be seen by a dispersed, illicit border crossing, with the police themselves not having sufficient resources to manage such a level of migration. The possibility of more migrants, thousands who do not want to remain in the Republic of Slovenia, which could escalate in expressing dissatisfaction, mass execution of crimes and offences, taking into account the scattered illegal crossing of the Republic of Slovenia border and on the other hand the introduction of temporary border controls by Austria. Let me stress once again that it is the Slovenian Army's assistance to the Slovenian police. And when we talk about the activities and assistance of the Slovenian Armed Forces in carrying out the work of the Slovenian Police, it is about ensuring the security and protection of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens, people and property. For security, we have to do something, do something, do something, and the task of the state is here, including our governments, to take care of this security and to protect our borders, because this dictates our duty. Therefore, every thought is entirely over whether or not it is necessary to activate or help the Slovenian Armed Forces to help the Slovenian police protect and protect our citizens and citizens. I would like to recall – a quarter of a century ago, when we had to protect our independent processes, our new-born Republic of Slovenia, when the police, then militia and our Slovenian army, then the Territorial Defence together protected, protected and conquered our homeland with weapons. Together we said the green-blue line; together in war, together in peace there was such a nice slogan. I am convinced that this is what our citizens and citizens are asking of us all, they expect the maximum, which is also enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us not forget that they are protecting us and that our members of our Slovenian Army will protect us, which we must trust and trust. That is why every thought is entirely overshadowed by the fact that it is irrelevant and that it is an intervention in some civil spheres. An important message for all citizens is that it is the security of our people in our country. I will therefore support the activation or decision to activate Article 37a because I am responsible to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for security as a Member. And this, of all of us Members, I think, is expected and demanded by all citizens, not by political affiliation. I will also support the amendment of my colleagues from the SDS, because I believe this amendment, that there will be no confusion as to what he is saying. [[…]] [[…]] In order to inform the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of State borders against the competent working bodies of the National Assembly, both for defence and for internal affairs, the first report within one month of the mandate given and the application of this Decision and the second report after the expiry of this Decision. That is why I think that this consensus that we are about to give today is of the utmost importance. I think it is right that citizens today, all who are watching, be careful who will vote against it, which means that they do not want to protect our citizens and that they do not care about the safety of our citizens, our people and their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u97	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Dusan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! For several months now, perhaps years we have been dealing with Europe and allow a very short view of Europe. Europe has not been just a cradle of extraordinary humanities and technical and scientific achievements in the past. Unfortunately, it was also the central site of the two largest seas in human history. And World War II, with more than 30 million victims and 20 million exiles, was the reason for Europe's new security architecture. What is Europe's security architecture today, ladies and gentlemen? Let's go home, what is the security architecture of the Republic of Slovenia today? This is a key question today. Madam Minister, I will support this proposal for a decision, it is perfectly logical, as I also supported the amendment of the Defence Act. But this decision and the amendment of the Defence Act, ladies and gentlemen, is a matter of normality, in fact neither in decision nor in law should it be written. Why am I saying a thing of normality? Because, see, each country is also defined by its own surface, with its own area. Slovenia, its surface area of 20,000 square kilometres, approximately. The Slovenian army has the task of defending every square inch of this area. And the task of the military is to defend that fundamental element by which the state is defined, or one of the basic elements, so this is the area, this is the area. But now let's ask ourselves when we're talking about the Slovenian Army; see, we can still have such ideal laws, ideal conclusions and so on, but let's ask ourselves now about purely human, do we today have the most motivated Slovenian soldiers? And then, do we today have maximum-motivated Slovenian police officers? Is there a motivated striker? And the government’s communication — local communities — is it even possible? Remember the adoption of the budget, the Budget Implementation Act, remember the average, remember the mayors sitting here at the gallery, negotiating with the Minister of Finance, failed. They received additional burdens for this year and next year, and as far as finance is concerned, they should receive them, if not otherwise under the European Charter of Local Self-Government, under the Law on Community Financing, under the Law on Local Self-Government, but should not receive them according to methodology. How, though, can honest, genuine communication be obtained on the part of the Government — the congregation? Look, that's the problem, and of course the problem is that the government is 17. 2. adopted the Mid-term Defence Programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2016-2020. There is virtually no increase in financial resources, virtually no increase. I know that the Minister is handicapped and would allow her to have greater political support in the Government for the state treasury money. [[…]] And here's the problem, so it's up to us to start talking tomorrow about the state budget balance. I'm concluding. Once again, I will support this decision and, of course, also the amendment of colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u99	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Dušan Radič and Mr Saš Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now I must respond immediately to the words of my colleague Horvath. Motivation in the police, motivation in the military; I would say so, everyone should be dissatisfied and motivation should not be a question. And a surgeon can't say, I don't know, "I don't have enough high wages, I'm not motivated." It may be a bad mood, but for motivation, we decide somehow when we choose our profession. And I believe that all those who have entered this profession, both the police and the military, are appropriately motivated. Even when there are challenges to us, such as this migratory wave. I believe I'm predicting the government and other services that this situation could be quite varied in March, April, May. We're all informed from the media that the war in Syria is still going on, not only that, but I think it's still complicated. It is about a possible land invasion of Turkey and Saudi Arabia. The talk is that it will fall, as some say, Aleppo and us or Turkey in the first place are also facing a major migration wave from this city. It is also right to prepare ourselves in this direction for this wave in the Republic of Slovenia. There is a lot of talk in the political space, whether we are in time for these measures or not. For the time being, I am convinced that we were in time for all measures. Also with regard to this measure that we are taking today, these are the complementary powers of the military and the previous powers given to the military. I don't know, it just wouldn't make sense last summer. Even today, on Monday 22nd, the army does not yet need these powers, but in the coming days, but in the coming months, it might need them, and all of this shows that this response is just as timely as the rest. There has been a lot of debate in the political space lately about some kind of arousing of fear. I am joining those who say that politics itself may cause a certain fear too. It's only right to point out the situation. We shouldn't be putting our heads in the sand. It's a good idea to warn you, but we have to be careful. Because we don't even know exactly what's going to happen, I don't know, in March, April. We are prepared for a black scenario, but now to cause some dissatisfaction with a general one — many are not satisfied, either because of a low pension or because of unemployment — I think this is unnecessary. It is also unnecessary to arouse some fear in places where some accommodation centers are to be arranged. You've all been aware that this is supposed to be centers that accept these migrants temporarily, and there's no fear that there's going to be some kind of settlement there, on the contrary. This will make a significant contribution to those places in the event of a major wave already held by such accommodation or reception centres. From this point of view, it would be quite solidarity for those places that are already dealing with this crisis to take over the work of this burden also remain. Of course, I stress, not that they will remain there forever, but that they will burden Slovenia and that we all bear a balanced burden. Today, there was also a talk that, I don't know, coalition parties would accept everything afterwards, that it was such a KZ case; this is simply not true. Also on the Committee on Justice, where we have discussed the Terrorism Prevention Directive recently, it has been somehow established and it has been realized that we have, as far as this is concerned, a completely modern legislation which, if any, has to be amended. In short, all these parameters that are so important are in a framework that ensures that we can expect the future peacefully. Of course, we must not fall asleep at this time. If you are following the news from Hungary today, it is reported that they have already broken their border several times, or that fence, on the other hand, they have already received more than a thousand migrants and refugees in Hungary. The great pressure is also generated on the Macedonian border, and in fact it will be a challenge for all these countries, in the first place for Macedonia, but we may learn something from this and learn how to keep this living force if they decide to do so, let's say a forced way to cross this border between Greece and Macedonia. There's been a lot of talk in the last few months about our fence. Today we heard representatives of the United Left. I have to say that I don't fully understand them, I don't know if they have any insight into the actual state or not, or if it's just some hold. But I would like to stress this: we can still find ourselves in the face of a situation where this fence of ours, too, will not be enough. And in this light, maybe, I'll say, again, a lot of politicization, what all Slovenia, what all it could do, and maybe not. I want to say that the fact that we have so many and so many migrants at our borders is not just up to our country, it is not up to our policy. If not most of these migrants are much closer to entering Europe, I do not know what other fences, such as Hungary, but they have been brought to the Slovenian border at that time, now the fences. It follows that perhaps these flows will turn elsewhere and that there is so much less in place to create some impression in politics, if that were the case, there would be none of these migrants. It just doesn't hold. These migrants, even if we build the Chinese Wall, will be able to walk here, the neighbouring countries can drive them to our border, but they can't. In the light of the circumstances, I believe that the Government is reacting perfectly and that today's action or decision we take is in the right place, and I will support it without any reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u101	Mr Dusan Radič has the floor to prepare Mr Saš Tabaković and Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! I'm very fond of statistics. I'm gonna do it this time, too. By 1 January 2015, the 28 Member States of the European Union had 20 million Muslims living, about 6% of the total population. They're supposed to be in Europe a million more last year. So now there are 21 million. 4.7% of Muslims live in Germany. Let's see France. The latter is made up of 7.5% of the Muslim population, a member of the largest Muslim community in Western Europe. However, the gap between the perception of the people of the European Union and the reality of the official data, how many Muslims are in the European Union. And what did the surveyors come across? Most citizens of the European Union have a totally flawed picture of the actual situation in their own countries. In the polls, the French replied that there is one third of Muslims in France. In fact, there are 7.5%. In Germany, people responded that the Muslim population was 19%, with that million since last year it is now 6%. The most Islamophobic are the Belgians who claimed to be Muslim in Belgium 30%, although less than 6% live there. In Britain, they were more moderate and believed that 21% of the British were Muslims, in fact less than 5%. Italians believe that Muslims are 20% in Italy, unlike the official 4%. Let me finish with Spain. The Spanish thought that 1 out of 6 Spaniards was Muslim, and in fact only 1 out of every 50 inhabitants of Spain was Muslim. Make your own conclusions, who's afraid of whom. So last year, 20 million Muslims were joined by a million Muslims. I conclude that if, by now, 20 million already living Muslims in the European Union have failed to destroy European culture and identity, then these 21 million will not succeed. In recent years, books have flooded Europe, where former ultra-enemys, such as the Soviet Union and the Communist, are now being replaced by Muslims. Will Europe still be Europe with these people? If you remember, Europeans on their streets see three times as many Muslims as they really do. Finally, there's something about such a singing Hungarian fence. Earlier, my colleague Zorčič said – I have even more accurate data, Igor – over the last 20 days, more than 1,200 migrants have gone through the Serbian-Hungarian border, the fence or the technical barrier. As we see in the case of Hungary, these technical obstacles, or as the United Left cutting wire likes to use, are not in itself enough. Physical protection and sufficient human resources are required for the steering effect and for the prevention of dispersion. However, I support the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u103	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u104	Mr President, the distinguished Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The fact is that we have witnessed the polarisation of the refugee issue again today; once again, of course, we have had a policy of full acceptance and, on the other hand, a policy, simply as I would call it, an impenetrable wall. In between is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which in some proportionate way has been successful in compensating both in fact extremes. Why? Slovenia is not an independent island in the midst of an endless sea, which, of course, can afford a kind of inferior attitude towards the world that surrounds it. On the contrary, Slovenia is the smallest country on the migration path and as such directly entangled in the current international political situation. We have found that Slovenia has limited possibilities or limited accommodation capacity and, of course, also limited capacity as regards integration. I stress the limited, but of course it doesn't mean it doesn't have any. At the same time, we have shown, in fact, many times in the past, that we have a certain capacity for empathy and that we know, of course, how to organize and also how to help those who need help. After all, with the last reference to the National Assembly, citizens' authority was also entrusted to a liberal policy that had a progressive relationship with respect to human rights rather than a conservative one. So these are all the facts that this government has understood and respected. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore susceptible to both the security and humanitarian level on the refugee-migrating issue. A month before the arrival of major groups of migrants, the government developed models of different scenarios, which, of course, were also consistently implemented according to the actual course of events. If we just look at the internal political moves that the Government has taken on this issue, when it works easily with different stakeholders, as far as local communities are concerned with non-governmental humanitarian organisations, with which, of course, it is very inclusive. And if we look at what the external policy is, of course, where we receive greater praise not only from the Member States north of us, but also wider. Of course, it is particularly important that we are also commended by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, where Mrs Caroline van Buren was actually pleased with Slovenia's approach to the refugee issue, especially since the lady and her team have been accompanying us in Slovenia for five weeks, so we can probably say that the work of the Government is responsive and effective. In the SMC Group, we understand, of course, that this article is an important step-by-step measure aimed at protecting both citizens and migrants, of course, and that this article is simply being addressed as a result of the tightening of asylum legislation and also of some kind of "border closure" in the target countries in the north. Slovenia is still successfully confronted with changing conditions on the ground and the activation of this article is precisely based on the awareness of the limited staffing and other capacities I have already talked about. To date, since last October Slovenia has passed half a million migrants. I have half a million weak individuals, who we have provided with more than care, with the state system working vertically down and still functioning smoothly. It is true, however, that many stakeholders in the police force are simply tired and need help, so it seems to me that in this sense it is also high time for the military to become more actively involved in the process of dealing with this issue. I understand the concerns that have been expressed today, but let us be precise. Of course, it is not a generally repressive, unjustified measure; this is evidence of the fact that this measure is time-limited, that it needs to activate simply both the votes of the coalition and the opposition and what it personally considers essential and which has already been explained at the committee meeting, so that the army can easily use weapons solely in defence. Therefore, this stepping-up measure that we are talking about today does not mean that the Republic of Slovenia is not a humanitarianised country and that this would mean that we will not offer within the capacity a shelter to those who really need it. It would be inappropriate for today's measure to be understood solely in the light of xenophobia. Politics must also be aware, in particular, of the fact that we are still open in our society, that our horizons are open and, of course, there is no room in our society for hate speech or any kind of hateful treatment of those who enter our country. This means that we must be patient with those who really need international protection, as this means, of course, that we must also be patient with those who are simply looking for a better opportunity or a better life. Human life as such, of course, must be treated with dignity in all spheres. That's why I'm going to get my hands on the event in Shenchure, which we're talking about today. It is an event where a group of people publicly expressed their views, their opinions, to some extent legitimate. However, I must point out that I am wondering, given that we had a committee meeting in the National Assembly on the hate speech and its definition, this means that we have united somehow what the hate speech is, and that we have also united in this sense, what the hate speech is not, which also means that we understand, of course, what is inappropriate speech and what is appropriate speech. [[…]] And given that all the parliamentary groups have agreed that policy on various issues that are particularly delicate for society must act critically, but must also act in a coherent manner, to reflect in this sense, whether it is appropriate, or appropriate, that at the time of certain international shocks, the more visible representatives of the party or members of the National Assembly should simply be painted in front of the replicas of the domestic poster. Such gestures personally seem inappropriate, unconstitutional to me, and it seems to me that they are not in the spirit of some connection that many words have been heard about today. That is why I am completely distancing myself from such a gesture. If we really want the prosperity of citizens, then we must also take care of the hygiene of the public discourse on such crucial issues as today, even if, of course, all the members of this group agree that this is absolutely necessary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u105	Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! This time we are talking again in the National Assembly about the migration crisis, about the problems that have come with it, of course. It is, of course, an event that has already been predicted in the past. I estimate that when we talk about the migrant crisis and, of course, the related issues, we will talk about this for a long time. Indeed, it is in one of the Slovenian weeks that he has also read some predictions and analyses that he intends to travel to Europe in the next few years, much more people than have been sent to this day; even some numbers about 600 million people are being talked about. Of course, it's a big number and I can't quite imagine what it's going to look like in the future. I have also discussed myself at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, but since I had only 15 seconds, I would still like to present a little more detail about what I was talking about earlier. A good half a year ago, you can see for yourself how the countries of the Visegra Group acted preventively at that time and how other countries acted. Then, of course, we could see how the holiday season, the New Year’s Eve, was spent in what country. Many have canceled celebrations, fires, celebrations as through the current lane, while in some countries, of course, their leaders and statesmen have given timely warning of problems that are also coming, and of security aspects, there have been no problems and no problems. Unfortunately, I must conclude that Slovenia, especially here I think of the Government, did not act in a timely and appropriate manner. We also had a meeting of the Defence Committee on Friday. I also said there that we are talking too late about this measure that we are talking about today. The suggestion itself, it was similar to the one on the table a month ago. At the time, there were quite a few Members of the coalition who said that it was not necessary for Slovenia to be okay. But today we see — a month has passed and we talk about it. And that's what we've been predicting in our parliamentary group at the time, of course, that's what's going to happen. I believe that the state must ensure a sense of security. Safety that people can walk the streets, in cities without fear. You can see for yourself what is happening in neighbouring countries, such as Austria, where in Linz, Salzburg they are somehow organizing the local population, village guards or accompanying groups that accompany the younger ones, even the older ones during the day, especially on the evenings when they go for a walk into the city. Somehow, when we are talking about the migrant crisis, I must also touch on the activities carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, particularly on, I will say, the establishment of migrant centres. This has, of course, aroused a lot of fear and mistrust among people. We have representatives of the Ministry of the Interior who have spoken or said until recently that all measures, all migrant centres and their establishment should be agreed in agreement with local communities, with the local population, the mayors, and then one conversion took place last week, when, in fact, the Secretary of State, Mr Šefic, put himself in the role of the Sun King and began to say that he would ignore the will of the people and that the Ministry of the Interior would no longer take account of the opinion and position of the people. It kind of makes you feel afraid, untrustworthy. Remember what the Prime Minister of the Government said at the start of the migrant crisis, what is happening today. I would also like to say that it does not seem appropriate for the Ministry of the Interior not to inform people, not to inform the mayors where something is planned, where something is going on, so the Government is going to be a great mistruster. On the other hand, it is also problematic that it is still part of the staff of the Ministry of the Interior, which are somehow so much for Slovenia, that they give information that flows across the premises of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and informs the public where migration centres are planned to be established across the country. The latest information I received at the time was seven migrant centres per country. Some are still negotiating in the background, but somehow we must not forget what happened in Kidrič and in Shenchure, where I think that locals and generally citizens have resisted such policies of concealing, concealing information, misleading. And it is right that the Slovenian government comes to people and tells them where something is planned. I was alone both in Kidric and in Shenchure this Saturday. I am confident that when I talk to people, people will organize more similar conventions. At the final stage, one was announced at Lenart for Friday. Somehow we need to start to understand, and the government needs to start to realize that we will have to start talking to people, not every day at a press conference saying, "There will be a migrant centre, we will not take you into account," and somehow ignore people's will. I don't think that's right, it's not a new ethical policy either, unless maybe it's the standards that the Prime Minister has been talking about. It also seems problematic to me that the team of the Ministry of the Interior with some selected NGOs has started to urge migrants in recent years to start applying for asylum applications or applications in Slovenia. In recent days, the number of applications for asylum has increased significantly. I also addressed the Government's initiative or request to the Defence Committee if the Government could publish data every day, numbers, how many of these applications have been approved, and what will happen in the future, because I believe that the Government has nothing to hide from the people. I would also say that we Slovenians are alone in this migratory crisis. I am monitoring the media, including German and other foreign media, and one of the migrants who said: "We wanted to apply for asylum in Croatia, but they told us that we must continue on the train." So, some countries are holding a fig in their pocket, acting against some kind of legislation, some international rules. This is where we're supposed to storm. It is also problematic that Schengen has fallen in my opinion. Two weeks ago, four citizens of the Republic of Slovenia were detained in Beljak, and this Saturday two citizens of the Republic of Slovenia refused to enter Austria. So you see how some countries are doing around here, and the borders are closing. Shengna is literally gone, and this is not a good prospect for the future. The agreement with Turkey, which has somehow contributed or negotiated €3 billion and many ratings on the path of accession negotiations in the EU, does not entail the desired effects or the things they agreed on. There will be a lot of problems here in the long term, because Turkey will simply not act as it has committed itself, so, of course, the European Union's summit must also consider how it will take place in the negotiations until Turkey in the future. Why don't I trust the government's activities that are happening? There are two main reasons for this. First of all, you probably remember when the press question to the Prime Minister was how many migrants we would welcome to Slovenia. At that time, the President of the Government said that we would accept between 15 and 20 migrants there. Then the days went, the weeks went, the months went. Today we are at the end of February, and we are in a situation where we are already talking about 14,000 migrants. That's a lot more than 15 to 20 migrants, and here it is, I don't know why I would trust the Prime Minister and the ministerial team, of course, if we see that things aren't under control. [[…]] Second of all, why don't I trust you? I am also concerned that we have committed ourselves to NATO to maintain the defence budget at least at the level of previous years. But as the Defence Committee has, of course, also been presented, the funds will in fact continue to fall. Look, it's hard for us to count on the military to have something if they don't have it for basic equipment. And I know that the Minister is in a difficult situation because this is a trend for several years. But at the final stage, it is we who are adopting the budgets that we are setting priorities, and it will certainly be necessary to consider this year's budget rebalancing and to allocate more resources for defence. We have always warned about this, and somehow in the light of these events that are taking place across Europe, of course this would be quite right. Last but not least, which is why I also got to know myself on the ground; a lot of military or police personnel are essentially concerned because they are not qualified enough. [[…]] As a result, many police officers attend additional training on Slovenian shooting sites at their own expense. I must say, as far as I am aware, this number of visits has increased significantly over the last period. Rather, they fear that they are not qualified when there are conflicts or accounts. And here, of course, we need to be careful and ensure that everyone is properly trained. To conclude, however, perhaps I would say that today's debate has again shown that, in fact, those who consider themselves to be the most tolerant are the ones most impatient. As a Member, I respect the views of my colleagues. But when I look at the laughing, making a fool, or listening to other observations, I also create my own opinions about individuals and, of course, about what is happening in the National Assembly. It is sad that this has also happened today, when some way Slovenian policy must come together. You need a two-thirds majority and no problem, or you'd probably be the one to say he's going to be guessing, but we don't have a problem with that. We have a spine and a thick skin, so, of course, I will support this conclusion myself, and I hope that it will receive sufficient support because it is Slovenia. And it is only right that we step in this area together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u107	Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare for Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President. Good evening, everyone! 5 hours 30 minutes for a proposal for a decision on the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces, with six weeks of Parliament agreeing on this issue, but we still see that we have a broad and, I will say, very extensive discussions on the subject that we agree on most of the time, except for one party. As far as I understand, we're mostly dissipating substantively. This same party in some way, if I understand correctly, and I repeat around 200,000 refugees would be acceptable to them. [[…]] For all others, however, different from the party, different from responsibility; some very opportunistic, some responsible. But it is fair to say that today there are 320 migrants, refugees, as you wish, in our country. I mention this in particular because we understand the dimension of the problems we have in Slovenia compared to other countries in the north, south, west, east of us. I must say that because of the crisis that has touched us, which is the greatest thing we remember, the countries, the philosophy of the country, the leadership of the countries are changing. But we Slovenians, hand to heart, even though it has been six months, we have only kept a face, we are very right to our neighbors, no one has anything to tell us, not migrants or neighbouring countries. I think we are one of the few Europeans that we have kept clean in this crisis. But nevertheless, some want to create an extraordinary situation ahead of time, and we are the ones who must continue to stress, "no, we have everything under control". People do not actually see the crisis in front of them, but politics does represent a mirror in which we see, as has been said today, few times: tension, fear, concern, crisis or mistrust. It is said that many times when we repeat these words, we create an image, an image about our country that is not real. Despite everything we think – we can be critical – we can warn – but to this day we have done relatively well. I do not accept a variety of lies, manipulation of the state in which we live, because our commitment and our responsibility is that we are not only responsible to ourselves, but primarily to the citizens. Because I mentioned earlier that six weeks of parliamentary groups agree with the bill, which mainly touches on helping people who offer aid in the form of humanitarian aid or security assistance. I'm talking about our officers. I'm talking about our soldiers. By today's decision or by our confirmation of Article 37a, we will implement a law or part of a law that will allow for some assistance at the border, which, when possible, will provide what we all want, I will say peace, not only among Slovenians, but also among migrants. We have to be honest about this. Someone said, "today Gorenjska, tomorrow Slovenia". That's what those who caused such protests say. Those are strong words, so now I'm provocative. But above all, when we claim the responsibility of the current government, what are the scenarios if our situation really changed dramatically? Does this mean that we will withdraw the word and be granted the free way of action? What kind of actions are we gonna build borders? Okay. What's going to happen to the border? Who will take on these responsibilities? Or worse, where are we gonna put these people who are gonna stay here? We keep talking about where they can't be, but no one tells us where they can be. I would expect that from those who are wiser than us, in a way. Today we expect and most likely will be two-thirds support. But look, we agree on what we are going to vote on today, but we are still taking advantage of every moment of our media space to try to show that impression to our voters that our opinion is the best. In some ways, however, we are not looking together for the right solutions that would not only touch the security, but, above all, the humanitarian and later economic aspects, because we will also have to come to this and these debates are now more than necessary. That is why in this place I would still like to come back and highlight the importance of today's session and try to continue to limit myself to the subject that is why we are here today, and to avoid some squabble, even though this word is not at my heart, but especially sometimes you have to say bob beans and say such words that not only do people listen to you, but that they also hear you. Let us act responsibly, yet be accountable to the people, show a realistic picture, not subject our speech content to the will of the electorate, but, above all, give people the real picture with all the responsibility we have as, I will say, the representatives of the people, so that when the transfer of power takes place – and sooner or later – we can all speak the same language, not that we will then turn the board when someone else is in another position as we are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u109	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferlug and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased today that the Government was finally aware of the seriousness of the migrant crisis. That the Government finally realized that the Slovenian territory must be protected from the intrusion of migration flows. Because two months ago rhetoric was completely different here: 'this is not what Slovenia needs, it will not be a problem', and so on. So from this title, I am pleased that progress has been made here in the government. Of course, I support the granting of powers under Article 37 of the Defence Act, but these powers have been presented in detail today. I personally believe that these powers are extremely, extremely limited. It's nothing. In short, I think we'll be able to get additional powers in more than two months. Whether this is, I would say, bad legislation or whether it is a poor assessment of the government to come with such limited powers, it will not really matter. It will be important that the Slovenian police and the Slovenian Armed Forces protect the Slovenian border and protect the Slovenian territory. But since I'm in the technical field, I'm more interested in what means will the Slovenian police and the Slovenian Armed Forces protect the territory? Because we know that the equipment in the defence area is in fact we are not properly equipped. [[…]] Of course, this is all about the budget. As a result, I ask the Minister — because every day I have been ahead of schedule or encountering Czech trucks carrying Hummer and other military equipment — is this about the solidarity of the Czech Republic or is this about the rental of military equipment? After all, I'm actually interested in what the cost is going to be here. Is this related to any costs, or is this, I would say, military aid, military exchange of funds for use? So I'd like one answer here, because I don't think it's military secrecy. Transportation is taking place, I'd say, every day with open transportation, so these movements are very noticeable. Of course, I will also support this decision for the granting of powers that will protect the Slovenian border and thus the Slovenian territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u111	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Good evening to the ministers and the internal affairs team! So once again, as we have not said before, once again that Slovenia has limited resources, it is necessary to say once again that the Slovenian Army helps Slovenian police, once again, that the main message or main issue in this decision, which I hope today will be supported by all – except the United Left, which has much more problems here than the others – is in fact to give the Slovenian Army certain powers, which have a certain time-limited duration and, of course, with our support, so that all the guards are somehow rounded up in all of this. It must be said that we have about 670 kilometers of border with Croatia, which is very pervasive. This fence has been set up in certain parts, but we all know that these green borders, despite the fact that we have state border control units in the police force, are not enough. It is not enough because the police also have to carry out their internal tasks within the country, and therefore this article is extremely important that the Slovenian Armed Forces actually protect this green border. And by doing this we are actually making some ground to burden the police, to simply then deal with this main migratory flow, where we need to have such a control, as regards fingerprinting, about refusing entry to certain people and all other tasks, from security checks and everything else, and then the army has the task of having this green border, which, as I have said, is difficult to protect, somehow with its presence has its scrutiny and control. [[…]] To talk about whether we have confidence in the government or do not have confidence in the government depends on which party we are from or how we view the matter. Given that we are from the Modern Centre Party, we trust our government clearly and also trust that it has a certain amount of information and therefore proposes these limited step-by-step measures, which are undoubtedly necessary to avoid escalating into certain situations that are unnecessary. Even so, the media and certain segments of society fuel this intolerance, some rule without any great need, if we know that in the vast majority of Slovenia it has not even been felt by this migrant crisis and this transition of people across our premises. One thing is right that they went fast, one is wrong that they went fast and that they were under-examined It is now that – whether you want to have them in a pile somewhere in one place and get them quickly or, I don't know, you look at each one individually. [[…]] It is important that the arrivals of migrants have not been dispersed and that is why the police and the Slovenian Army and the Civil Protection and all those working on this project have not been dispersed all the time. If we are talking about the issue of how Austria is coming to Slovenia, we must also say that Austria is doing the same work on the Italian-Austrian border; that it has checkpoints, entry points and, you want or do not want to work all over this southern Austrian border. Therefore, it is crucial to know once again that this decision for the activation of this 37th Article is so important that the Slovenian Army helps the Slovenian police and works under the Slovenian police. And once again, it must be said that all these measures are gradual and patient, because otherwise we are escalating into some such spheres that we will not be able to limit them. Another thing to say is that Slovenia has limited resources, both with the Slovenian police and with the Slovenian Army. And that is why it is absolutely rational to act and act together and to somehow have some continuation and to see some end. And if I finish. Thus, it is necessary to ensure that people in Slovenia feel safe, and thus we will add again one of the elements on which we can reward a security culture. Despite the fact that our colleagues, colleagues from the United Left see this as a purely vision of this, but in fact these situations today in the world point to some dialectic, where the number and fluctuation of migrants changes from day to day, as well as a way of transition. As my colleagues and Mr Radič have already said, in fact, all the wire fences that are built, which are actually more expensive and more expensive and even more demanding to set up, did not help to keep these migrants from looking for a way through that side. So, with some moderation and some calmness, I think our government is showing some serious attitude towards all the serious matters that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u113	Mr Bojan Podkrodšek has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, a fine evening on my behalf as well! Today we are talking about the migrant crisis, both in the Republic of Slovenia and in Europe and the world. Under this point we are now at, we unlock this article 37a, and there is no doubt that I would not vote and support it. Of course, I firmly believe that we are talking about this law too late, and on the other hand, we are making too many stories out of it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, if I recall correctly, we proposed this in the autumn, but at that time we were unheard, mocked, and what kind of word came down that we might be impatient with people coming illegally through the Schengen, entering our country and moving on to Austria. Of course, it also bothers me that we have been listening all afternoon to some in this country calling people to meetings. I can't agree with that. And I also found somewhere in the media that the Prime Minister of the Government today was a little bit disheartened at all those who gathered on Saturday, as well as those who met a little while ago, and of course also at all those who will be in the future. Surely these people who come to these meetings are afraid of the future. Even if they listen to today's debate, they often hear the debate indecisively, particularly indecisive for our future. When we talk about people, about meetings, let me remind you that these meetings were also in 2012, of course with a great difference. At that time, people were actually called to come to the streets, hanged dolls, invited by those who were afraid of unjustifiable pensions, who were afraid that they would no longer come from the banks, and what they were afraid of. The current Prime Minister of the Government was the person of the month in December 2012, I think on Radio Val 202. On the other hand, he wrote of the protests as a logical consequence of moral and legal principles. This was in 2012, 17 December. Today, the picture is very different. In Slovenia and Europe, there is a very difficult situation and all those respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed ministers, the Secretary of State, who you think will see this migration crisis ending this spring, you are certainly in the wrong place in 2016. It will never be the same again, and this migratory crisis will certainly take years. This means that in the Republic of Slovenia we will have to put much more emphasis on security, I mean the military and the police. When we talk about this difficult situation, we have – I think the police are still saying – a very bad situation in the military. When we talk about this 37.a Article, of course, would be much more important, this should already be adopted last year to sit in this National Assembly today, Minister of Finance, and, of course, propose a budget rebalance for 2016, which would provide additional funds both for the military and the police. [[…]] These would be decisive steps for our concern and for the security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, I will support this myself, but I am concerned that we are too often indecisive, that is passed on to Members and Members, we do not have enough information, we do not know what the measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be in the future. If we do not have this information, then it is also passed on to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and I think that this policy is too determined and, of course, it is also an uncertain situation as regards security in the Republic of Slovenia, but also broader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u116	Good day to you all! Despite the late hours, we are still discussing matters that we have really discussed three months ago. I admit that I am a little surprised that some have only learned today what powers the army has actually received. However, if we made a very precise and very detailed decision when we went into law reform, and we also had hours and hours of sessions, first on the committees, then we had a change of law here in this room, and finally we supported the change of law. Today, some MEPs admit that, after a precise explanation, the ministers have now finally come to a conclusion of what the powers are. And they also find that they're too small. Yeah, how did you vote then? Didn't you know what you were voting on? No, no, Mr. Gorenak, your colleague said it, nothing to say there, but good, because it's your constant, I'll say, readiness from ambush. [[…]] What is important for us to speak today is that article 37a is very clear on this issue. But we do have another problem that is actually born today by today's debate, and I must say that I am cut off, especially young people from the SDS so very heroic – I don't know if they've got a homework assignment to do – they're using today's debate to tell us where we're going on Friday and I don't know where else to go, and they're calling people to some meetings. I find that extremely distasteful. At the same time, I don't understand relationships; on the one hand, you like the army, on the other hand, you say you have to go to the border, on the other hand, and on the third hand you explain that you don't really know what she's going to be looking for, because she's not armed or she doesn't have enough basic resources. [[…]] At least sit down and consider making one line to be consistent in your discussions. You know what my friend Chus used to say today? By the way, the Youth Office said the following in 2014 – I thought he was a little caught up, but I see that he is gone – “let’s be impatient about all the intolerance”. Today, however, he expressed another phrase, "those who are full," as he said, "full of tolerance, they are truly seeming to be patient", somehow, because he will probably correct me, although he is not now in the hall, "the seeming tolerance is in fact the most impatient". Now I am just wondering which group Mr. Chuš is in – in a group of those who are patient or who are "tolerant". Because in fact, nothing has been seen from the debate today about tolerance. This seems a little irresponsible, though, from a young Member of Parliament. For a young Member must be aware of one thing: when we send and take such measures, if one, the Government and Parliament cannot sow fear, he must not sow fear. I believe that the opposition will, of course, always use all the instruments and logic for that, I will just say, only itself the bill and in the sense of warning, if, "we have spoken, we have warned, but nothing, look at it, and today we are happy to accept it, but look, if you listen to us, it would have been six months ago," and so on. Me how? They don't have guns because they're not equipped enough. In fact, if you are honest, the neighbors of Austria only sent an army yesterday or today — 450 soldiers, 22. 2. They used to have a thousand, but don't forget, there's 7 million of them, and there's only 2 million of us. So we're going to have some proportionality and so on and so on. And what's even more important is that the Austrians have decided to take steps in the light of the situation. Given the situation that's going on. Of course, some will say again, 'Yes, we've adopted a law under no idea what kind of emergency, a change, and then nothing happened. I'm sure a thousand percent that if we were in power from the SDS and any other, I'll say, their partners would do almost the same. It's almost like that. We wouldn't be scaring and talking about how we're not opening those centers, and I don't know what else. I must say, I was incredibly surprised at yesterday's or yesterday's contribution to the Schenchure convention. They all rallied that they were against this centre and that it was dangerous, dangerously dangerous, and at the end of the day, the journalist just said that, just before that meeting, the ministry had already assessed that this facility was not safe at all and, more importantly, that they had already informed long ago that there would be nothing there. So what's the occasion for? I'm afraid it's the same reason I'm listening to it from this side today. Fear, fear, fear and fear again. That I won't be satisfied too much. And that seems to me to be what's irresponsible. And if we talked about the enemy speech days ago; look, now you have a scene of fear, a mixture of hate speech, not to say who didn't gather there and what banners we were looking at and, I'll say, protecting people that we need to be in fear and so on. That, I must say, colleagues and colleagues, is unworthy. Concern, mistrust with all justice, but responsibility is vested in the executive branch, I'm so sorry. And I hope, at least according to your statements by the leaders of the parliamentary groups who have announced what decisions thank God, even these decisions cannot be taken by the coalition itself, can only be taken by the two-thirds majority of those we agreed last year to activate such a decision. [[…]] Which means we're all responsible for these acts. Personally, though, I only take this as an aid and as a relief. What we wanted all along. Of course, some will say that there is much exaggeration again. In the end, let me say one more thing. I saw a few numbers today. First, 600 million people will come here. [[…]] I don't know why I don't know who did this to you and how you could have predicted this awesomely in advance to be 600 million. [[…]] When the old mother hears that, I don't know where she doesn't even follow it, she still doesn't imagine a million people coming, like 600 million. And of course, when someone says 600 million and we're on the phone, you'll be talking about a billion tomorrow. Then my colleague Chus says $14,000, Mr. German says 300, so what am I supposed to believe now?Oh, my God! I mean, these are numbers that just don't go together. And come on, please, stop freaking out. Stop scaring the population, because we have found very clearly on the Defence Committee together and no one has objected – except those who were not present on the Committee and today say other things – that there are, of course, differences and views as to how someone would solve a matter, but 99% of the Slovenians did not feel the refugee crisis and normally live and we all walk normally at night and there was no one, and I will say, attacked by no one and what I know, what theories all, I will say, scare the Slovenians, what will happen. I tell you something – I would like to hear if someone would raise their voice every time Slovenians rape Slovenians or Slovenians attack and steals; we have a lot of it, and no one is commenting. We can never allow any violence, but we can't have a mythologically violent story that hasn't happened, testifying in advance and comparing it with numbers of 600 million and so on. We don't know. We don't know what's gonna happen in three months. That is why this is a necessary security measure, and thank God at least at this point we agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I must say that I am very pleased with every performance by Mr Möderndorfer, but I have a few problems; first, I have to look at where he is sitting, given that he is sitting, but in the final stage I only find out where you are. Very good performance, I must congratulate you. I've looked here a little while ago or I'll be doing something else at home for college, and now I see that you've done your entrance exam at Mrs Kustechev's, so everything's fine, everything's in place. I'm gonna miss you in the next term, too, because I'm not going to be here anymore because I'm not going to run for office; if you come in, or if you do, I don't know. Okay, well, that's not dark. Let's go in one order. Mr. Tabakovic is here. Yeah. You have recommended that Members should not go to such gatherings as they were. See, in 2012, thousands of people did not gather, it did not gather 3,000 people, but it gathered once – I think it was 9 or 8 March 2013 – even 20,000 people; the media said 30 because it sounds better. And then I realized there was half of Miderndorfer's army there, but you know. He was a general at the time, he had 36 soldiers. And look, at least half I saw them walking around and clapping so much that it was a pleasure. Then all those sitting there on the United Left were seen, and they were loud at all; you know how they cried. I live nearby and I hear them. [[advertising from the hall]] That's the way it is, so there's no question. Every citizen has the right to freedom of assembly, and we are also citizens, and I do not know why this would be forbidden to us, and the left hand side is allowed and desired. So we need to clear that up. And there's one more thing. He used to quote your president. In 2012 he was a professor at the Faculty of Law, in the National Assembly he received two more euros and 900 for legal advice. Your President Cerar said, "Protests are a logical consequence of established moral and legal principles", which is already quoted by Mr Podkoršek. I have now done one little analysis, published also on my website. Isn't this interesting, look, with these moral principles and the legal ones he's come to power. Otherwise, at their party's meetings at the end of June, there was nothing yet about the government, but about us coming in, it would be nice, but they won. It was based on moral and legal principles. Legal principles; withdrawal of a mandate? It's illegal, not legal. Moral principles; Maria hergeben in your client, I mean the fees. Is that legal? Is that moral? Then protect the minister. And that's moral and legal at all, the minister who's been getting money immorally. But look, today this is the new president of the government. You know what he said today? And today he said, "I'm very worried when someone's trying to make people impatient where there's no reason. Some political actors would be in line with the state of disorder and chaos so that they could come to power or achieve their goals in this state." I'm not going to agree to that. Yeah, no one's gonna ask him. It'll be replaced by the people. Look at that double morale. In 2012, he was not disturbed, and we know exactly that the demonstrations in 2012 were directed exclusively at the demolition of the Janša government. This was acknowledged by the poet Zajc, said journalist Petrovčič, the one from Mladina who was even there at the trough of these demonstrations. Well, that was fine, and that's not right when two of our MPs were just there in Schenchure. Let's give it a little morale. Of course, it was a peaceful protest. You know, Mr. Tabakovic, this was a peaceful protest. I've only seen Slovenian flags and Slovenian songs. Do you know how I felt here before Parliament? One burning, screaming, shivering, and violence. I saw the Yugoslav flags before Parliament, I saw the inscription "Policy in the Barbara trench" before Parliament, which the prosecution later declared not a crime, but something else. That's not a crime, even though the police arrested the man, identified him. And that was violent. 92 police officers were injured. Some have consequences today. That was good, or how? Schenchure is the problem. Hell, double morale. Article 37, ladies and gentlemen. Oh, of course. I made it very clear by the time we adopted this article that we do not need a change of law because it is 37. The article, the last paragraph, normally allowed this – the engagement of the military, as we speak today, at the border. What's the problem? The problem is that you fought in the government. At the time, at least four great legal experts, familiar with police powers, including the secretary-general, who was once a criminal, participated in or near the Government. And it was not possible to reach an agreement between the interior secretary and the defence minister, because according to my information, the interior minister objected to any involvement of the military. And look at what you’ve done — Article 37a, which you know is disabled? He's a tetraplegic, not an invalid. 37. a.m. should have what? He should have the classic specific police powers, which are clear, which have been valid for 50 years or 70 years and he knows them, he can analyze them and he knows what that means. And what's written in the marriage? The fact that soldiers are able to warn is acceptable to me because it is the same as the police's classical mandate, which is called caution. And what's a warning, every cop who's taught it at school knows. A rookie needs to know that, too. And that's okay, there's no problem. They're on their way. What is it — traveling? What kind of legal concept is that? Do you know what that is? It's nothing. Nothing. This means a threat to these soldiers and police officers who are supposed to be police officers on patrol. They don't know what it is – they're on their way. Has anyone explained to them what it is — traveling? We'd rather write in marriage – they command, amen, for sure. Because an order is a police mandate understood by every police officer. Next – temporarily restrict movement. Yeah, they're doing something now!? What's that? Do they lock someone up for a tree, or do they lock him up in a hive or something? And why not write in the law — hold? That's what cops do, and it's a classic police mandate. No, it must be artificial — temporarily restricting movement. Next – they participate in the protection of the masses; this is actually the art of the legal order. What is this — they are involved in the protection of the crowds? Why don't we write "co-operate with the police to protect public order and peace"? And everyone would know what it is. Personally – I also consulted Mr Dobovski that day and we tabled an amendment – I would give them some more police powers because they need them. And all these police powers are possible, Mrs Tatjana knows exactly as a man from the police, she can learn these few powers within five hours. Five hours of training, and you've got them trained and they can work. But that's wrong because you can't make a deal in the government, not even two women. But the one who should hit the table and say, "That's how it's gonna be" doesn't have anything. [[...]] Let's move on. Look at this duality, this duality really bothers me. We have already heard the story today about the successful President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who even Europe listens to. Mother, you have to be proud of him. In Europe, he launched the thesis that we have to help Macedonia down there to protect them so that migrants don't come up. [[…]] [[…]] But it's not his, it's Yanshev's. That's what Jansa said, you know, when he wrote it in his letter on November 18th. One month earlier, and on October 28th, he wrote to him in his letter how much? Seven, eight suggestions. You're doing a big majority today. Instead of a fence, you call it a technical barrier, because it's embarrassing because Janša said a fence, and you say a technical barrier. Nonsense. Then you talk about how to walk together. I mean, this law is two-thirds, without our votes. [[…]] They said no, Joint Left. But you call it a state-making one, and you say creative, cooperative one, and I don't know what we are; look, we will support this today despite the grave mistakes you are making, but we will support it. [[…]] Of course two, three sentences have to be said on the next topic. If you did what you were doing last May, you'd probably be applauded in the opposition. At the time, it was necessary to prepare for these measures, at the time it was necessary to do so, and this law on State border control, and some other law on the budget, as we have already heard today, is likely to be the budget today. And you have all the support, and that's what I said in public the last time in Target. Everything you bring to the table and it will go to the benefit of protecting the southern border, so our borders of our national borders, at least as far as we are concerned here, will be supported. Don't you have a good opposition? You have quite the opposition. But that's what we should do last year, and that's what we're telling you. And instead of these fences — representing what, actually, rabbits’ nets should be hunting for money — we should set something else to protect the southern border in a different way. The problem you have or we all have in this country right now is the following. In September, on the Committee on Internal Policy, I think I said the following: "They will probably pray on Gregorčič that they will go to Austria as soon as possible." Well, you see, and that's what's happening today. The more they go to Austria, the happier we are. But the problem we have for tomorrow is what? But it is that we are not able to protect the southern borders on our own. And despite what the secretary says, you can both say it. But with this force that we have, you two put together, say, if you do a lot of work, 10,000 people if they send everything they have at their disposal, they can't do it anymore, and they need 24 grand if they want to put one on a hundred yards. You know that, right? And so again we depend on the South, Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia and not our smart ruling policy. Now you can pray to your fathers that they won't go up there because you won't keep them alone. And there's something to conclude, like a few last sentences. There is also the Secretary of State who has spoken in certain matters. Look, we've been having a total mess in the media lately, where, who, how much it costs. We leave the 400,000 and so many who have come and gone, almost 500 thousand already. We gave 20 million for those. Okay, we'll get something from Europe, for sure. They don't get anything. As for asylum seekers, who are constantly repeating how few there are — by the way, only this month is 90, just this month, but before that year there were 50 or 100 — the matter is perfectly clear for them. In public, he rounded the data, especially on national television yesterday, that one asylum seeker, I am talking about an asylum seeker, that there will be no problem with what is in the asylum home, costing the country 12.50 euros a day or rounding 380 euros, national television reported yesterday. Excuse me if you can explain to me how this amount is completely inaccurate. This amount represents breakfast, lunch, dinner, goodbye. Where is the apartment, where are the salaries for 28 employees in an asylum home, where are the salaries for external legal advisers, for external translators, if you want and everyone else? Where's the heating, where's the rest of the care, where's the health insurance, where's the free schooling? However, if you take this into account, of course you have a magnetogram of the 21st September session, where Dušan Maramor is located, the finance minister said that one asylum seeker costs 10,000 euros a year or 833 euros a month. Net. The interior minister, however, said in her question, that one asylum seeker costs 50 euros a day. That would mean a thousand 500 euros a month. Any information is accurate, it does not matter, but it is only important that only one other information is relevant: that a pensioner receives €434 for a full pension for 40 years of work. These costs should be rolled down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u120	Thank you. Comrade Gorenak, why did the government of Janez Janša fall? I can't give you any answers to that. I wasn't in the National Assembly at the time, and I wasn't politically involved, so that's your pain, which, of course, I can't help you in any way. It is not true that I said that public assembly is not legitimate. You can read the magnetogram. That's not true what I said. I just said or asked the question whether it was appropriate for a party to take a photo in these days before the replica of the patriotic poster. I have distanced myself from this act in this place, from such a political discourse. You don't. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Welcome to the Minister, the other representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! When we are talking today about the proposal for conclusions, the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border, we are wondering when we can activate the exceptional powers of the military provided for in Article 37 of the Additional Defence Act. Of course, this is when the government considers that such a security situation is necessary. And now the government has assessed that this is necessary; if, of course, the borders are tightened or closed or controlled in the northern part of Slovenia, of course, this will also have to be done in the southern part of Slovenia. Of course, it is a temporary measure that applies for three months, but it can certainly be repeated later in the same procedure as it does. There was a lot of talk today, but we have enough troops. I think the government has clearly estimated that we have enough troops so far. Where and how it will activate them and where the soldiers will be deployed in cooperation with the police, they will, of course, agree within the Ministry of Defence and, of course, within the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, I would like something else tonight, though, to read the latest things to my colleagues who were previously talking about our government doing nothing, from today's press conference – a few summaries given by the Prime Minister of the Government. And I'll thank you, if they're doing well, why don't we praise them? Prime Minister Miro Cerar gave his initiative to help Greece and to further control the Macedonian-Greek border. At the same time, he called for tolerance, repeated tolerance in Slovenian society in the face of the refugee crisis and stressed the temporary residence of refugees in Slovenia. Here, too, we sometimes make something out of these refugees, when we settle them, that they will do I don't know what and what the burden is, which Slovenia will not be able to bear. He received the support of both the European leaders, the leaders of the Visegraj Group and the Netherlands as President of the European Union. Dr Cerar marked the EU's external border between Greece and Turkey as crucial to curbing irregular migration. He highlighted the agreement of the European Union-Turkey, which has not yet been implemented, although it should already be, as agreed. The aim is to protect the Schengen area if the borders begin to close as they begin. This leads to severe economic losses, but it can also mean the fragmentation of the Schengen area and the disintegration of the EU and the conflicts in the Balkans that need to be avoided, the Prime Minister has also warned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We're moving to the final section. Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u124	Thank you. In fact, I would like to answer only a few of the questions that I have been asked in the debate. As far as powers and training are concerned. Yeah, I warned myself about that, and I also read in detail what kind of authority it was. In our opinion, these are extremely limited powers and powers specified by the Service Rules in the Slovenian Army so that it is clearly clear what powers soldiers and soldiers may exercise on the ground. And, as I said, it is not a new engagement of members and members of the Slovenian Army, but it is an existing task that they will be able to carry out with additional powers, which I believe are specified by the rules. And an assessment of the content; as I said, the Slovenian Army is operating on the basis of police plans coordinated with the Slovenian Army on the basis of rules of action. and by the Ministry of the Interior, it is assessed that such a level of cooperation is sufficient to deal successfully with the resolution of the migration, refugee crisis, as we have shown so far. And I declare for myself that the police, the Slovenian Army, all others, the Civil Protection, which are involved in the resolution of the migrant and refugee crisis, are doing an extremely good job. The question was raised as to the cost of the participation of foreign troops in the resolution of the migration problem. Currently, no other army is involved. They are in the past and, in fact, our cost was to provide them with accommodation, food. That's what these costs are. What has been observed so far in Slovenia is a convoy by the Czech Republic, which participates in both Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if you noticed a larger transition of their members, it was essentially just a transition of the Czech army. However, they cooperated with Rolle and also with technical means to cooperate in setting up a temporary barrier at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on the point of the complementary proposal for a decision and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate the second point of the updated proposal for a decision and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No one, thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The decision on the amendment and the proposal of the decision will be fully completed in 15 minutes. With this, I interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda, and I also interrupt the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue in 15 minutes, which is at 22.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u126	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian military in the wider protection of the state border. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 2 of the proposal for a decision. I inform you that in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 37a of the Law on Defence for the Adoption of the Amendment and later of the Decision, the two-thirds majority of Members present are fully required. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have only proposed this amendment for the purpose of saying so, because, as the Minister has already said before, this failure is the only one in this 37a article, which should be added later on in order to add some reporting. We didn't want her to just get married once, and we didn't want her to get married every month. But given that we are implementing a measure that will have consequences for both the police and the Slovenian Army, as well as for citizens and citizens, and finally for the state budget, yes, the Government to the Defence Committee and then also to the Home Affairs Committee for the first time in 30 days, reports what has happened in these 30 days to somehow get a report on what these measures are. [[…]] Then, of course, when the measure is completed, after 3 months we know that we can propose this measure again for 3 months if necessary – given how this is happening, I believe this will be necessary – after these 3 months we will get a final report somehow. This is precisely why we have not proposed that the entire National Assembly should be convened just because of this subject, but that the competent committees should consider it. I hope that you will support this decision, because I think it is right for Members to get to know each other, even though we have received explanations as to what the tasks of the Slovenian Army are. Finally, it may also be in these reports that we will receive guidance on whether this 37.a article may be rectified, perhaps complemented in this direction, as we have already proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to add some other protection of assets and so on. In short, in the SDS Group we will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! We also view this proposed amendment of the SDS Group as a constructive amendment in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre and as another additional protector in the event of the activation of this 37.a Article of the Defence Act, and therefore we will support it in a uniform manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u130	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 68 were voted against and 5 were voted against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. I inform you that the Government or the Legislative and Legal Service have not warned me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly have made the proposal inconsistent. I am also pleased to inform you that, in accordance with Article 37a, paragraph 1, of the Defence Act, a decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will vote against it. We will vote against it because the proposed measure stems from the wrong definitions of the problem we are facing. It follows from the definition that we have a security problem on the issue of refugees, but that is not true. The number of refugees has been minimal since the refugee crisis began. The procedures are underway, the personnel are on the run, and therefore the threat to the refugees and not to our people is not increasing in any way. Come in. In fact, only human smugglers benefit from violent stoppages. The funds should be spent rather than on organised reception and accommodation, rather than on the capture of illegal refugees, for which we should, after all, take care of them. And go ahead. Finally, we do not have a refugee in Slovenia. And in a given situation, that's not normal. It is normal to give them a hand and to provide protection in Slovenia for people who undoubtedly need it. And here the government has to decide whether it will come from the demands of several hundred insidious protestors, who have not even seen the fugitive from the vicinity, whether it will be better to come from good practice of thousands of volunteers and activists, from the practice of police officers, medical personnel and so on, who daily prove by their work that Slovenia is capable of assistance and solidarity. And in the United Left we will certainly not come from racial prejudices but from positive practices and therefore press the "against" button. However, it is a major problem that the political class is completely over the refugees with repression, while it directly and indirectly supports foreign bombs, foreign armies and the occupation of the Middle East. You know, there's a term for this in Slovenian, it's called hypocrisy. Only that this hypocrisy is quite fatal for the nations between Morocco and Iran, and it has bloody consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u132	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 for them and 5 for them. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal of the Recommendation concerning the Government's plans for the resolution of the migration crisis. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to the first point of the proposal for a recommendation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. The proposal by the amendment, which foresees the deletion of the first point of the decision, is rather strange. The control right of the National Assembly is enshrined in the Constitution and you renounce it with such a decision, so you renounce something that is not only your right, but also your duty. In addition, there is something to know; if people are left with no adequate information, then a place of fear opens up. With this, the government and the ruling coalition leave open room for radicalisation, for all possible manipulations, for all that they then perfidically read to everyone else. The right to correct, comprehensive information is also a constitutional right explicitly enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. In addition, it is something else; Orwell has already said, "in the totalitarian system it becomes the truth of hate speech", and today I claim that the battle for truth, for freedom of the public word, is for the right to be fully informed of the battle for the existence of the independent state of Slovenia and the entire international community. Because if that does not happen, those forces that will tear apart the European Union will be strengthened by those forces that will truly leave Slovenia to itself and to itself. And I simply cannot understand this irresponsibility of the ruling coalition to predict with this amendment that it renounces what the Slovenian Constitution itself requires of it, that is the right of people to be informed. For according to the Constitution is authority on the part of the people: both enforceable and legislative and judicial branches of authority are only a form of exercise of this authority. And they have every right to know all the relevant information that is important for their decision, for their life, for their well-being. That's the kind of decision you're denying them. Why? Obviously because what we should present is not good and it is so bad that you are ashamed to present it to the public, but then the public is rightly afraid. You are allowing room for manipulation, for fear, for radicalization, for all that has not yet had its place in Slovenian society. And do not read to anyone any more: if you make such a decision, it is only your fault and only yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much, President. The explanation of our vote, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, is as follows: the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services has adopted a proposal for a recommendation concerning the Government's plans for the resolution of the migration crisis, two such proposals or two recommendations, including this first recommendation, which we then proposed to the coalition parliamentary groups that it should not be further voted on here because there are no appropriate legal bases or there are already both business and legal possibilities for the Government to report consistently to the National Assembly on its activities in the assignment of any of its activities. For this reason, we have decided that there is no additional need to confirm such a decision, which is in fact already written and accurately and legally defined, nor must it be reaffirmed or adopted in this way. In any case, we will confirm the recommendation that the National Assembly should call on the Government to seek the broadest consensus of all political institutions in the formulation of solutions to fundamental security issues, as this is a fundamental issue of the existence and development of our country. This is something we believe to be and must be an integral part of the democratic political culture of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u136	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u137	See, if there is any problem with this government and the ruling coalition when it comes to facing the greatest security challenge of the modern world, this is with the migration crisis, this is half of it. And this vote you're predicting is a great example of this. In the same breath, you say, you will reject the right, which is a constitutional right to complete information even to the National Assembly, and on the other hand, you say, you will seek consensus. Yes, how are you going to look for consensus without prior comprehensive and accurate information on government plans, issues, all the facts relevant to dealing with this problem? You can't. So if you're going to reject the first decision and take the second one, it's some kind of half-breeding that doesn't lead anywhere again. And this is the whole problem of this situation with the migration crisis in Slovenia. That is why today we are exposed to potentially very harmful consequences because it was delayed for several months because it was wrong for several months because it went to "illegal migrants express" and it was only the flow that mattered, but the European Union rules governing the Schengen area were not respected. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, today the economy and citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens have difficulty going to the neighbouring country. Because Schengen is no longer a free border crossing. It's the result of this half-life. Therefore, it would still be necessary to respect the constitutional right to information and, of course, to seek consensus, which is what all democratic countries do when it comes to fundamental issues. And security is definitely the one that has to be in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u138	But you will vote against it. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 18. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a recommendation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u139	Thank you. Once again, this is going to be quite an interesting vote. Now, as a conclusion, only the search for consensus is proposed. How you will seek it if you give up comprehensive information, what is constitutional right and duty, if you have even committed this duty to the Slovenian government, which is also contrary in my personal opinion. But that obviously doesn't burden you at all. If this consensus is on at least one basis, I hope it will bear fruit. And this foundation is one – knowing that every citizen and every citizen has the constitutional right to live safely, to respect his human rights and to respect his personal integrity in a consistent manner. And that no right of a foreigner and no right of any foreign country or international community must be over this right. If this is a knowledge that will be the basis for finding consensus, then I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-22-SDZ7-Izredna-28.ana.u140	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 5. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
