ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Violeta Tomić, Eva Irgl, Iva Dimic from 3 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez to 11 p.m., Suzanne Leup Šimenko, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Matjaž Hanžek, Miha Kordiši, Jan Mahnic, Marjan Dolinšek, Matjaž Germany, Luka Mesec, Dr. Franz Trček, Andrej Chuš, Jan Škoberne, Joseph Horvat from 12 o'clock on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on Registration in Road Transport, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport. The proposal for a law contains the corrections and amendments necessary under Regulation No 165/2014 on tachographs in road transport, which, inter alia, repeals Regulation No 3821/85, which also regulates the area of tachographs. In particular, the reference in Regulation No 3821/85 to Regulation No 165/2014 should be corrected and certain provisions of this Regulation should be transposed into law accordingly. Under Regulation No 165/2014, a new smart technologically advanced tachograph will be introduced to reduce the possibility of manipulation in the field of social legislation. In addition, procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport will be updated, rules on driving times, breaks and rest of drivers. The obligation to introduce a smart tachograph is foreseen for 2019, which will be regulated by specific implementing acts of the European Commission. Most of the provisions of that Regulation shall apply in the parts governing the scope of tachographs, driving cards and tachograph cartridges in 2016. This amendment regulates these areas of the regulation. In addition to the above, the bill contains some minor changes mainly in the field of tachograph workshops and criminal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u4	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 19th meeting, on 6. 4. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and for the recording of premiums in road transport submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 11 was tabled in the course of the course of business. In a supplementary explanation, Mr Klemen Grebenšek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, explained on behalf of the proposal, that the bill contains the amendments and amendments necessary for the adoption of the EU tachograph regulation in road transport. It is therefore necessary to correct the references to the repealed Regulation in particular in the current law and to transpose some of the content provided for in the new Regulation accordingly. The new regulation will, inter alia, introduce a new smart technologically more advanced tachograph and modernise and harmonise road safety procedures. Most of the provisions of the new Regulation apply in parts which cover the scope of tachographs, driving cards and tachograph cartridges as early as 2016. However, the obligation to introduce a smart tachograph is foreseen for 2019, which will be regulated by specific implementing acts of the European Commission. In addition, the draft law also contains some minor changes in the field of tachograph workshops and criminal provisions. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the amendments to Article 11 were duly taken into account by the amendment tabled by the coalition groups and that the comments to Articles 4 and 16 were made by the applicant in writing. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill. In the short debate, MEPs and Members expressed a positive assessment of the solutions contained in the bill, as they believe they will contribute in particular to greater road safety. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments mentioned by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on the Registration of Equipment in Road Transport, submitted by the Government on a regular basis, containing in particular the amendments and amendments required by the European Union, the Road Tachograph Regulation. The law introduces a new smart technologically more advanced tachograph according to the regulation and further regulates road traffic social legislation control procedures such as driving times, rest periods and rest for drivers. In addition to the above, the bill contains some minor changes in the area of tachograph workshops and criminal provisions. The bill follows the principles of legality, equality before the law and efficiency and ensures that changes in the law and its application do not create unnecessary administrative obstacles in practice. At the same time, the law removes ambiguities about criminal sanctions in certain areas and enhances the effectiveness of monitoring. A positive opinion on the bill was expressed by the Council of State. However, the legislative and legal comments were settled with the amendment of the coalition and with an appropriate written explanation of the applicant. However, no other amendments were tabled on the proposal for a law. In view of the above, we will support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The proposal for a law that we are considering today contains, in particular, the amendments and amendments necessary to harmonise national legislation with European regulations. New technologically advanced tachographs are being introduced and the procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport are being coordinated and updated, in particular the rules on driving times, rest and rest of drivers. This is a technical law that transposes provisions already enshrined in European Union legislation. In the United Left, we will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers. We note, however, that the law must also be implemented. The penalties for legal persons shall be relatively low in view of the consequences which failure to comply with the provisions on driving times and breaks of mobile workers may result. Controls over respect for the law must be regular and thorough. In addition, recent disclosures by some workers in low-cost transport companies revealed that as a result of the pressures of employers, restrictions on driving times and driver breaks are not taken into account. This is mainly due to the fact that the use of the tachograph under point B, first paragraph 2. Articles of Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 are mandatory only for vehicles which, due to their design or permanent equipment, are suitable for the transport of more than nine persons together with the driver. The use of a tachograph is also not mandatory for all truck drivers where the maximum permissible mass of vehicles combined with any trailer or semi-trailer does not exceed 3,5 tonnes. As a result of these definitions, in Slovenia, and elsewhere in Europe, a special segment of human carriers or goods, which are subject to legal restrictions sometimes on driving and rest of drivers, has developed, but it is virtually impossible to establish compliance with these restrictions. Thus, these drivers also drive for 12 hours or more continuously, and they also spend over 300 hours a month driving. This means that they are often sleepy and tired, and their low concentration may be the cause of the accident. Drivers are mainly pleasure workers, in most cases independent entrepreneurs who work for a company offering low-cost transport services. As the only condition for carrying out the work is the driving test for category B, the number of candidates for carrying out these tasks is unlimited. Companies renting these espacies are well aware of this and, in combination with the inability to control public authorities over compliance with the provisions on the limitation of driving time, make good use of this. These drivers shall be subjected to pressure after more transports have been carried out as soon as possible. Thus, profits are generated in the unfair situation of workers who create these profits, to reduce traffic safety and to reduce the risk of the lives of passengers who pay for these services. In addition, low-cost carriers avoiding all the restrictions mentioned above constitute unfair competition for public rail and bus transport, where all these restrictions are consistently respected. In the United Left, as we say, we will support the amendment of the law. In the future, however, it is necessary to work on the introduction of tachographs or other effective means of controlling the working time of drivers in vehicles used for commercial transport of goods and persons, and, following the current arrangements, are exempt from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u10	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The introduction of a new smart and technologically more advanced tachograph or a Slovenian control device that will prevent many abuses does not at this time mean its actual placement in our control system. This is a multi-stage time deployment that will end in 2019 with their mandatory installation in new vehicles. In view of the fact that the supervisory authorities have identified the most violations of vacations and rest periods, driving and tachograph handling, it is appropriate that fines are high for these infringements. The purpose of built-in tachographs is to prevent the adjustment of time and rest data, and therefore any abuse of this control device is subject to strict sanction. In New Slovenia, we believe that many of these violations are also due to the lack of expertise in keeping records, calculating night work, on average working time for 16 weeks, recording driver cards and the correct use of cards and tachographs, even because Member States of the European Union have different rules on nighttime. We therefore wonder whether the penalties for incorrect use of tachographs for employers and their responsible persons may be too high, especially if the employer has to be responsible for the incorrect use actually caused by the driver without the employer's knowledge. On the other hand, we must not allow employers who have a strong interest in profit to literally force drivers to break the rules, including by editing data by tachograph. The bill ensures that the novelty brings greater road safety, reduces the possibility of exploiting mobile workers and prevents the grey economy and strengthens fair competition in the industry. This is true, but only on condition that he also exercises good control of his task. The procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport do not provide sufficient sanctions for the biggest offenders, often reported by the media. There will therefore be much to do in this area, not just to transpose the guidelines of the European directives. Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport will not be opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleague and colleague! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport, since it is a matter of harmonising Slovenian legislation with the European legal order, as well as possible positive effects in several areas, especially because Slovenia has a specific geographical position. There are also extremely important road links across Slovenia to the east-west, north-south, which are heavily burdened by transit truck traffic. We expect the introduction of a new smart and technologically advanced tachograph and coordinated control procedures over driving time, rest and rest for drivers to contribute: for the first time, to greater road safety, less tired, exhausted drivers on the road means fewer accidents, fewer lives and more traffic flow; for the second time, less opportunities for workers to exploit; for the third time, less grey economy; and for the fourth time, to strengthen fair, healthy competition in the road freight sector, which is good for our carriers, as this also reduces unfair competition. In this case, we are pleased in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that Slovenian legislation is aligned in a timely manner with the European acquis, which unfortunately is more an exception than a rule, because it is only in this way that we can transpose European directives and European regulations in a meaningful, useful and efficient way, which could also be our competitive advantage because of our smallness. We hope it will be like this in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Anton Danilo Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u14	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Members and Members of Parliament and also to the Secretary of State of Mags. I swear on the thrust! In the SMC Group, we believe that the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport contains significant changes in the introduction of more advanced tachograph equipment technologies. While these are important additions which are necessary for the transposition of European legislation and relate mainly to the use of tachographs, driver cards and tachographs. Small changes in tachograph workshops and a clearer definition of the field of sanctioning are also included. The legal basis for the introduction of a system of smart tachographs and the basis for updated control procedures for the rules applicable to mobile workers is therefore introduced. This means, in particular, rules on driving times, rest periods, rest periods for drivers. The existing regulation will, inter alia, introduce a smarter technologically advanced tachograph, which represents an important step forward in ensuring fair competition in the internal road transport market. European legislation in this area aims to ensure that Member States carry out a minimum number of road checks and strengthen remote control where communication is carried out on the basis of the tachograph and the supervisory authority, as it is a system linked to the global satellite navigation system and is an appropriate and cost-effective way of automatically recording the vehicle's position. Of course, a system of effective proportionate and non-discriminatory penalties will also need to be introduced in order to improve these technical elements and control procedures. There will also be up-to-date and harmonised procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport. Although the obligation of a regulation of smart tachographs is foreseen in 2019, it will make sense to follow the technical implementation of the acts of the European Commission. The proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest for mobile workers and recording equipment in road transport, which we are dealing with today, is only one step on this path, and we therefore support the proposal in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Let me stress again, in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the introduction of these tachographs will also make a significant contribution to safety in transport, and in particular prevent the potential exploitation of drivers by employers. Thank you very much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and Recording Equipment in Road Transport. The proposal for a law contains in particular the corrections and amendments required by EU Regulation 165/2014 on tachographs in road transport. This tachograph regulation will, inter alia, gradually introduce a new smart and technologically more advanced tachograph. There will also be updated and harmonised procedures for the control of social legislation in road transport, rules on driving times, breaks and rests of the driver. In this social segment, this law seems particularly important to us. The Regulation provides for a multi-stage timetable, which is March 2016 and the third deadline depends on the adoption of the necessary implementing acts by the Commission, which relate in particular to the specification of the transport tachograph. By amending the law, it governs the implementation of that part of that Regulation, which shall apply in 2016. This year, the European Commission has drawn up a proposal for implementing acts that give rise to a way of regulating the area of smart tachograph. This means that most of the provisions of that Regulation regulating the use of tachographs, driving cards, tachographs and tachograph workshops will apply in 2016. The European Commission provides for the adoption of these implementing acts for 2016. Following the adoption of these implementing acts, this means in 2019, the mandatory installation of smart tachographs in new vehicles is also envisaged. Given that the legislative and legal service's proposals have been taken into account, we will not oppose this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the amendment of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. We believe that the proposal of the novel, which introduces a smart technologically advanced tachograph and coordinates the procedures for controlling social legislation, significantly reduces the potential for exploitation of workers, i.e. drivers, who are still often victims of the exploitation of their employers, despite the fact that modern tachographs are already very advanced. The other reasons why we will support this law in the Desus Group are as follows. We believe that the novelty, with its provisions, contributes to greater transport safety, reduces the grey economy and limits unfair competition between carriers. The fact is, tachograph manipulation is not just a Slovenian problem. It is estimated that there are as many as 45 000 trucks on European roads every moment who in one way or another abuse the rules applicable to the time of transport and the prescribed periods of rest. This means that the risk of accidents is so much higher. At the same time, violators among truckers mean unfair competition for the vast majority of those who adhere to the rules. Unfortunately, the police are very poorly equipped to detect more advanced frauds, they lack the most basic equipment, and we call upon the competent to equip Slovenian police officers with appropriate equipment that will enable them to better and faster detect modified tachographs. Regardless of the advanced generations of tachographs, it is utopian to expect that manipulation due to the use of modern technology will be no more. Finally, I reiterate that the Democratic Party of Slovenia's Democratic Party will support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law amending the law on the first chamber structure of the Republic of Slovenia and recasting the authorised investment companies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u20	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main solution to the bill before you is the Commission's decision on the supervision of public finances of the National Assembly and the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this decision. In fact, the Commission for Public Finance Supervision has proposed to the Government that we examine the possibility of amending several laws regarding the conduct of statutory audits by the Court of Auditors and thus relieve it in this way, as the Court of Auditors has in recent times often pointed out that there has been an overburden due to an increasing number of new and additional tasks. In response to the above-mentioned Commission decision concerning the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies, the Government stated that the decision of the Commission was acceptable. The bill before you thus proposes the abolition of the annual review of the regularity of the operation of the First Pension Fund by the Court of Auditors. However, this does not mean that there is no control over the Fund, since under the current legislation both the Blue Insurance Company, which is the manager of the First Pension Fund and the First Pension Fund itself, are subject to the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. In the light of the above, we propose that you support the proposal for a law both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone, on my side as well! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 22nd session. 4. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the proposal for this law. The Committee was also presented with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee was tabled at the meeting to Article 1 of the proposal by Mr Janko Vebra, on which the Committee voted and did not adopt it. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In its initial supplementary explanation, the State Secretary to the Ministry of Finance explained that the proposed law removes the Court of Auditors’ competence to revise the First Pension Fund and at the same time follows the Commission’s decision on the supervision of public finances in 2014. It explained that both the First Pension Fund and its manager, Blue Insurance, d.d., are subject to supervision by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and therefore there is no need for double supervision. In the short discussion, support was expressed for the proposed solution and the view expressed that the proposed solution does not constitute a loss of control and that the Court of Auditors may carry out an audit if it considers that this is necessary. However, it was also expressed that the supervision of the Insurance and Control Agency of the Court of Auditors could not be equivalent and that the solution proposed was not the most appropriate. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! The Commission for the supervision of public finances, in which we have members of the opposition majority, has suggested to the Government that the obligation to carry out the annual audit of the Court of Auditors for the operation of the First Pension Fund may be unnecessary, since this is already under the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The Court of Auditors would thus relieve itself of the work already carried out by another competent regulator. In addition, the Court of Auditors may still carry out an audit if it considers it necessary. In our programme, Christian Democrats strongly advocate the elimination of unnecessary procedures and the excessive duplication of powers and institutions. They must be lame, paralyzing the operation of the Slovenian state apparatus. We see the bill as a contribution to a more flexible and meaningful system of auditing in the Republic of Slovenia. On this occasion in Novi Slovenija we call on the Government to explore additional options for eliminating other unnecessary duplications of powers of state authorities, which can certainly be found elsewhere. We believe that the goal of all of us is the effective and focused work of the state authorities. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Today we are amending the Act amending the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. It should be pointed out that the First Pension Fund is a special form of pension fund intended solely to cover the payment of pension pensions from the insurance policies of supplementary pension insurance, which were designed to replace pensions. As from 1 January 2003, the First Pension Fund is closed by the Mutual Pension Fund and no additional payments or inclusion is possible. The proposed amendment was based on the Commission’s initiative to oversee public finances, which at its 35th regular meeting on 10 April 2014 at the point of jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors under other regulations, adopted the following decision: the Commission proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider amendments to the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the recast of authorised investment companies, the Political Parties Act, the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, the Law on the Slovenian State Holding and other laws on the obligation to carry out audits and thus burden the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has recently received new additional tasks. These new additional tasks of the Court of Auditors are, for example, the revision of the New Ljubljana Bank and the DUTB. For that reason, the obligation to carry out an annual audit by the Court of Auditors on the regularity of the operation of the First Pension Fund is abolished. It should be pointed out that under Article 2 of the Act on the recast of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance, Kad has been recast by the inclusion of the insurance company as a share company. The Blue Insurance Company, which is the universal legal successor of Kad as the manager of the First Pension Fund under Article 272 of the Insurance Act, is already under the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. In view of the current arrangements and the fact that both the Blue Insurance Company, d.d. and the administrator of the First Pension Fund as well as the management of the First Pension Fund under the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the audit on the regularity of the operation of the First Pension Fund by the Court of Auditors shall be carried out. However, it should be pointed out that on 22 March 2016 the Court of Auditors’ report on the operation of the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was published on the website in 2012 and 2013, which shows that the actual work between the Court of Auditors and the UN is duplicating. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the Act amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, is it not? [[…]] There's nobody here. We're moving on. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u28	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill before us is short and relatively simple in content. It provides for the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 23 of the existing law, which states that the audit of the regularity of the operation of the First Pension Fund shall be carried out by the Court of Auditors each year. However, it should be noted from the outset that the supervision of its management is already being exercised by the Insurance Supervisory Agency under the first paragraph of that Article. The reason for the amendment of the existing law lies in the decision adopted by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in April 2014 to examine the possibility of amendments to the audit obligation to burden the Court of Auditors. Two months later, the government adopted a response to the decision stating that the proposal was acceptable. In the Desus Group, we have been careful to ensure that, despite the change, the operation of the First Pension Fund is adequately monitored. It is true that the Commission's decision tends only to reduce the number of audits, but we have been assured that the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency will not be less thorough, nor does the amendment mean that the Court of Auditors should not carry out an audit. It should also be noted that the general law governing mutual pension funds does not provide for a revision of the regularity of the operation of mutual pension funds by the Court of Auditors. We in the Desus Group feel that there is no need for double supervision. We are confident that the safety of the operation of the First Pension Fund will not be reduced in any way, as it remains under the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, so we will unanimously support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u30	Madam Vice President, once again, thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! The Court of Auditors is a respected institution which is trusted by both the light and the political public to act in the best interests of the people. Due to good work and subsequent reputation, initiatives are being multiplied to the Court of Auditors for the audit of various entities and businesses. In recent years, there have also been new tasks assigned to the Court of Auditors by law. First of all, this is about the revision of the Bank Claims Management Company. We all expect the moment when the Court of Auditors will be given clear statutory authority to revise the Bank of Slovenia. The demand for such audits is, of course, exceptional and, given the limitations of resources, it is reasonable for them to focus on where they will be most effectively used. The Court of Auditors regularly and well cooperates with the National Assembly. Thus, in the previous term, it has pointed out some of the legal obligations that burden his work, while duplicating the supervision of other institutions makes little sense for additional annual audits by the Court of Auditors. On one such occasion, representatives of the Court of Auditors drew attention to one of the Commission’s meetings on the supervision of public finances in the previous term when it visited the premises of the Court of Auditors. It is an obligation for the Court of Auditors to review annually the operations of the first pension fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This is provided for by the Act on the First Pension Fund and the conversion of authorised investment companies. The first pension fund, in which the funds for additional public servants' pensions are mainly charged, is managed by the Blue Insurance Office. Since its establishment, the number of such funds and managers has increased. However, legislation has also been developed which provides for the inclusion of pension funds and their managers, including those mentioned under the regular supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Since the regular annual audit for the Court of Auditors is a heavy burden, at the meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, they proposed that the annual commitment be transformed into a three-year one, followed by a Commission decision. The proposal ahead of us goes one step further. It fully abolishes the mandatory audit of the First Pension Fund by the Court of Auditors with arguments that the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is adequately replaced and that the Court of Auditors still has the possibility of reviewing the First Pension Fund on its own initiative. The Court of Auditors also attached this solution and welcomed it. In the debate on the home work body, we have also warned here that the supervision of the Insurance Supervisory Agency is not the same as the audit of the Court of Auditors, which is more extensive and broader, and in particular includes an assessment of the profitability of the business. We therefore considered that it would be more reasonable to follow the Commission's decision and commit the Court of Auditors to a mandatory review for three years. We believe that this would be better provided for proper control of the fund, which means additional pensions for many public servants. As the Court of Auditors has also assessed that mandatory supervision is not meaningful, we estimate that this must be respected and burdened in order to better focus on more demanding tasks. That is why the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item — Proposal for a resolution on the national programme of alignment with radioactive waste and spent fuel for the period 2016-2025 The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at its 19th meeting, on 6. 4. 2016 as a parent working body, the draft resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the period 2016-2025 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption pursuant to Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the supplementary explanation, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, provided the main directions and objectives of the motion for a resolution. She stressed that the motion for a resolution provided a basis for the implementation of Article 11 of Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 2011 establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which requires each Member State to ensure the implementation of this programme. The development and adoption of a national programme is thus in accordance with the Directive and the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety. On the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, the Ministry of Environment and Space verified the need to carry out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment against the public disclosure of the draft national programme. Given that strategies in the national programme address only existing facilities and activities already placed in space, there was no need to carry out a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. The national programme is a separate document containing a policy on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, with programmes and concrete measures to achieve the objectives of the implementation of the policy in this area. Following the meeting, the representative of the Nuclear Safety Authority provided a substantive explanation of the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution with the measures envisaged in the specific areas covered by the 12 strategies. He stressed that, in addition to technical measures, the motion for a resolution also lays down deadlines for the timely provision of conditions for the safe management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. An assessment of the necessary financial resources for implementation is also provided. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that they had made certain comments which were mainly editorial in nature and were duly eliminated by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The representative of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the motion for a resolution. The debate stressed that the motion for a resolution was a good framework document for regulating this area and should be followed by an operational programme with a clear financial and time-frame. Some concerns have been expressed regarding the assessment of the costs and the level of resources needed, particularly if the Republic of Croatia fails to take account of the commitment to take care of its part of the waste or the agreement on the common landfill will not be reached. After discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to PS SMC, Desus and SD to Chapters Contents and to Chapters 3.1, 4.7 and 9. The Committee then voted on all the chapters of the motion for resolutions together and also adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u34	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the document in principle in the Group of Non-Aligned Members because we are aware of our shared social responsibility to create appropriate legal and basics for the safe and effective management of radioactive waste and spent fuel in accordance with the highest international standards. In the resolution, which is a cover document, we would like to highlight some areas where we either perceive potential risks to achieving the intended objectives or they are questionable in terms of social eligibility. Firstly, we lack a precise strategy scenario in case the Republic of Croatia fails to fulfil its obligations in time to store radioactive waste from the nuclear power plant and decommission them. This is precisely why we call on the Government and all those responsible to conclude negotiations with the Croatian side as quickly as possible, because otherwise things can get very complicated and the burdens will fall on us, on our budget. As an example of compensation for unsupplied electricity of EUR 24 million. Secondly, the current fund-raising dynamics, the level of the contribution and the current outflows do not ensure the timely collection of the necessary funds, the level of compensation due to the limited use of space and the negotiation with local communities. Thirdly, it is unacceptable for us to have a financial structure planned to cover the costs of implementing the resolution, which provides for the burden of the budget of €36.5 million and to transfer the burden to all taxpayers, but to find that the most expensive electricity is directly from the nuclear plant. That's unacceptable. The burdens should be borne by those who benefit from it. We expect you to take our warnings seriously and find the right solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is an independent programme based on the state of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel in Slovenia. The motion for a resolution includes probable scenarios for the management of radioactive waste, draft technical measures, deadlines for the timely provision of conditions for the safe management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, and an assessment of the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the resolution is provided. The following operational programmes will be drawn up on the basis of which specific measures will be established at the implementing level in specific areas of radioactive waste management. The national programme deals with key problems of radioactive waste management, such as waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, waste generated by the operation of the TRIGA Research and Educational Reactor at the Jožef Štefan Institute in Brinj, Ljubljana, low and medium radioactive waste generated by the use of radioactive substances in industry, medicine and research and stored in the central storage facility of such waste in Brinj pri Ljubljana, as well as radioactive mining and hydrometallural waste in the Žirovski Top and others mine area. The proposal for a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent materials for the period 2016-2025 will be supported by the Task Force of the Modern Centre. We believe that the proposal follows the objective of protecting people and the environment from unnecessary harmful effects of radiation while ensuring the safe implementation of radiation activities and the use of ionising radiation sources both for energy generation and for supporting and strengthening industry, research, medicine and other institutional activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u38	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The updated motion for a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the next decade defines the following. It describes the Slovenian nuclear programme and radioactive waste, sets general objectives for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, describes the preparation of a programme for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as well as a programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent speech from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. When analysing the situation and taking into account the needs, 12 strategies are processed and presented to achieve all those objectives. It is possible to understand from the material that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant will operate after 2023 with a completed safety upgrade. The cost of implementing the resolution in the period 2016-2025 is estimated at a good 185 million, of which 36 million and a half from the budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the state budget too often assumes financial responsibility for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel and that these costs should be borne by agents. The motion for a resolution also plans to reduce compensation for limited use of space, which is not yet in line with local communities. We have given the warnings presented in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will not oppose the resolution proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Today, we are familiar with the second resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, this time for the next decade, that is until 2025. According to Desus' assessment, the Republic of Slovenia has shown a responsible attitude towards the professional and, in particular, safe management of radioactive waste and spent fuel by preparing this very important document. The document is also well-adopted in the professional public, which expects its approval. As we have already heard and probably will be, the document contains 12 strategies that mainly address the management of radioactive waste that has been generated during the operation of nuclear or radiation plants, as well as those that have been created in industry, research and medicine. The document details two key changes, one being the construction and operation of a dry landfill for spent materials and highly radioactive waste, the other being the construction and operation of a landfill of low- and medium-radioactive waste. Given that Krško Nuclear Power Plant is the largest nuclear facility in our country, it is, of course, the highest priority in the resolution. Thus, the resolution also includes a decommissioning strategy, as an update of the decommissioning programme and further operation of the power plant is envisaged. In 2021, a comprehensive programme to upgrade the safety of our nuclear power plant is expected to be carried out, which is of course what we support in our parliamentary group. In the Desus Group, the regulation of the disposal of radioactive waste from a nuclear power plant and operation and the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant depends to a large extent also on the implementation of the interstate contract with Croatia and the conduct of this neighbouring country. Since Croatia has not fulfilled its obligations in the past, there is a legitimate concern that such behaviour will be repeated on their part. The fact is that, on the basis of the contract, both countries should share the costs of operating a nuclear power plant and dumping waste in half. If Croatia does not stick to this, all the burden will fall on the Slovenian budget, which no one is sure to want on our side. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be supported by the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u42	Dear, dear, once again a very nice greeting, and in particular I welcome Mrs Minister and Secretary of State! The draft resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the period 2016-2025, prepared by the Government and forwarded to us by regular procedure, briefly describes the Slovenian nuclear programme, the legal and formal definition of radioactive waste, the applicable legislation and international contracts, sets out general objectives and principles for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, the procedures for the reduction of production, introduction, amount, import, export and transit of radioactive waste and spent fuel, the provision of human resources and financial resources, the financing of the area, milestones and programmes for the period 2016-2025, the preparation of a programme for the decommissioning of nuclear power plant Krko and the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel from the Nuclear Power Plant Krško. The resolution also includes a comprehensive analysis of the state of play for all types of radioactive waste and spent fuel per facility with data on current quantities and an assessment of future quantities, including radioactive waste and degradation. The resolution in the R & D analysis addresses pressing issues related to R & D and education and training. This is also linked to research and development activities in the field of radioactive waste management and spent fuel management. The fourth chapter of the resolution provides, on the basis of an analysis of the state of management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, taking into account the need for timely provision of conditions for addressing the problems related to it, strategies are presented with measures to achieve the objectives for all types of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the duration of the resolution and also for a longer period of time. 12 strategies are presented with concrete measures to achieve the objectives for each strategy and with proposals for technical measures. Time limits, measures and sources of funding are set. An assessment of the costs of implementing the measures to achieve the objectives set out in the resolution by area of the national programme is shown. The indicative costs charged to the state budget and Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant are listed. The last part of the resolution is devoted to communication, education and reporting, and the way in which the public is involved and informed in the decision-making in this area is also defined. The responsibility of individual actors for the implementation of the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel is given. The monitoring of progress in the implementation of the national programme shall be determined by means of annual monitoring of the state of implementation of the programme. The authority responsible for nuclear safety collects information from individual strategy operators once a year and includes them in the annual report on the protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia each year by the end of July of the previous year. Allow me to give a brief opinion of the Social Democrats on energy in Slovenia on this occasion. Social Democrats are committed to sustainable energy and to the prudent construction of new energy facilities. Slovenia must return to its governance policy by example and set ambitious sustainable development goals and integrate these objectives into the other set of development policies in the field of energy as well. In doing so, we are driven by environmental urgency and the economic need to achieve a high level of national self-sufficiency, which, in interaction with global markets, places on them the excellence of Slovenian knowledge and added value. This is particularly true for the energy sector, which needs a moderate economically sustainable way of moving into a renewable energy society and significantly increasing energy efficiency. At the same time, it is also worth recalling what coalition partners have written in the coalition agreement to support sustainable energy supply projects in the energy field. Specific energy projects will be decided in the context of the preparation of the new energy concept. We will support the resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you, Vice President. Today we are discussing the Resolution on the National Programme for the Management of Radioactive Waste and Spent Nuclear Fuels for the next decade. Slovenia has two nuclear reactors and an even larger number of smaller radioactive waste agents, which is why, of course, we need a national waste management programme. The resolution itself is a very technical document, which is also suitable for such a national programme. The resolution also sets out clearly and unequivocally the principle that the originator of radioactive waste will also pay the costs of its disposal. The problem is the implementation of this principle itself. Low- and medium-radioactive waste will have to be stored safely for several centuries and spent nuclear fuel for several millenniums. The costs that this will cause are unpredictable. The text of the resolution merely states this in the case of radioactive waste from small agents. As regards the financing of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, it notes that, in the current outflows, mainly due to compensation for limited use of space, the funds collected for the decommissioning of NEK and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel will not be collected in time. In other words, contributions to the Fund paid by NEK are too low. This means that the price of electricity from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is not real, as it does not contain all the costs generated by its production. The country thus subsidises nuclear energy and puts the financial burden on the storage of radioactive waste into future generations. The funds for the breakdown of the TRIGA Mark II research reactor are neither collected nor a more accurate estimate of their height is known. Although TRIGI is a scientific research project of national importance, we can also see here the externalisation of the cost of operation of this reactor by transferring the financial burden of its decommissioning and storage of waste to future generations. We need a national plan for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, but we do not need to be blinded to the principle that the originator pays, in fact, if it is written so many times. That is why we will abstain from voting in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u46	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The resolution that we have before us gives us insight into the Slovenian nuclear programme and the management of radioactive waste and the existing legislation. In addition, it defines general objectives and principles regarding the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. The resolution presents the preparation of a programme for the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, as well as the preparation of a programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel from the power plant and procedures for reducing the production of such wastes during operation and decommissioning. The resolution also sets out the most important points of the programme for the next decade. It covers the analysis of the state of play for all types of radioactive waste by object with data on the current quantities of stored waste and estimates of future quantities. It is particularly important that the resolution provides an analysis of the state of research and development. Christian Democrats are lacking in considering providing alternative sources of funding in this area in the future. The question that would require a little more attention is certainly linked to relations with the Republic of Croatia, which is committed to taking over its part of radioactive waste. Before any legal dispute on this at European Union level should be resolved, Slovenia should take over the Croatian part of the waste. We therefore ask the Slovenian government whether it is ready for such a scenario. It also applies to the position of the State Council, which is concerned at the finding that the current fund-raising dynamics, the level of the contribution and the current outflows due in particular to compensation for limited use of space do not ensure the timely collection of funds for the decommissioning of the Krka Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel. According to the State Council, the Regulation reduced the compensation due to a limited use of space by around 10%. Although in mid-last year, due to the demands of the eligible municipalities, the government returned the amount of compensation to the level applicable until the beginning of 2015. In connection with the statement in the motion for a resolution that, inter alia, possibilities for reducing compensation for limited use of space should be explored, state councilors were interested or discussions with the local environment were already under way. The Council of State has found that the competent ministry does not discuss this with local communities. While the resolution broadly regulates the field of radioactive waste and spent fuel management and thus interferes with the important security of the country. The situation in this area has changed over the last decade and it is necessary to establish a new direction. In New Slovenia, we will not oppose the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the period 2016-2025.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place in full accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a proposal to write down an advisory referendum on the placement of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia. The Group of 21 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank submitted a proposal for an advisory referendum for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, mag. Branku Grims, for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u48	I am gathering a very nice greeting for all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! In the past days, you have been able to see two simultaneous messages in the media, which only in conjunction give one key argument for a referendum on the number of migrants or asylum seekers that Slovenia would be willing to take into consideration. At the same time, it was announced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had issued an invitation to housing for migrants and that a fantastic number of 11 tenderers had come forward. And at the same time, you could read that in two cases, two Slovenian citizens were thrown out of their homes who were ill with cancer and could no longer pay their costs. In one case, however, on Facebook we followed someone with leukemia, including blood cancer, to rub even medical devices. Sorry, such a country is not social, does not comply with the constitutional principles that are already enshrined at the beginning of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. With such a government doing so, it is unlikely that any normal person in this country would want to have anything else to do with it. What has been said is that, of course, it is necessary to take care of ourselves first, for the problems Slovenia has to face that are huge and extremely severe. And only then and in the right way can you help others. What is happening in Europe is something else. Over 460,000 migrants went through Slovenia in the past period, if I am accurate 476 thousand 184 and all of them were illegal. Everything that has happened with regard to these migrants has been illegal, contrary to the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia and the obvious contradiction with the Schengen and other regulations which bind us at international level. Of course, it'll come back sooner or later than a big boomerang. In the last days, the media has challenged citizens and citizens and everyone who believes that this crisis is now over. Of course, this crisis is not over. This has been said very clearly by the Government itself, as well as by the European institutions, but will continue for many years. Europe is not doing the right thing in this case. Because the country is home. And those who live here have the right to decide who they want to take into their home and what number they can in that way. But what is happening is, in the most beautiful way, the number that I mentioned at the outset, that there were 11 bidders on the government's invitation to live for migrants. Look, if only all those left-wing journalists, those infamous orchestras 571 each of their apartments gave up for migrants, would have more than enough in terms of what the government was looking for. Of course, they don't come to their senses because they know what they're dealing with. And on the other hand, if all the 400 and more leftists who demonstrated there through the Kotnikovs and before that didn't fight and even violence at the border were to hinder our police officers from doing their jobs, each would turn their apartment over to the migrants, this number would be completely different. There wouldn't be a problem. They don't come to their senses. Leftist demonstrations even expressed their willingness to violence. They were covered, they had bicycles, they had some other katanas and tonfes, and I don't know what else could have been seen in those photographs, which the police were alerted to, and it was said by the minister that they would still explore – I'm still waiting on this question, by the way, at two sessions, and it wasn't at the session – but what the point is, what an indescribable duality is. Aggressively pressured and discredited the public, individuals who point to security are pressured by institutions that a permanent open door policy must be implemented in a non-critical manner. However, when it comes to concrete housing for migrants, their own doors remain firmly locked, closed. This is a duality, ladies and gentlemen, and this is the reality of Europe in this case. It's fake humanitarianism, and people are dying because of this false humanitarianism. Just the last time a few hundred refugees drowned again, the total number is now around 6,000 in the Mediterranean. In addition, people die in terrorist attacks in Paris, Brussels, in individual attacks elsewhere. All people are dying, and it's the people he invited to Europe, ladies and gentlemen. The one who made false promises to people, the one who assured and coerced everything that even laws should be broken, only so that everyone could come. Where are they all now? The responsibility for those who drown is to those who invite people to Europe who tell them that it will be for all space. Of course he won't, because he can't be. And on the other hand, for the violence that has been and is happening and will happen, it is the fault of those who have unlawfully allowed the entry of 100,000 migrants, and now they are playing with them one such shameful pingpong. For one we return to Turkey, Turkey will deliver to us the next, and there will be a scattered new one coming, and when we return those, Turkey will give us back the next legally and we will force you to divide them by quota by country – this is a great policy of the European Union! We throw it on the road with us, but not only with us, similar cases are also known, it was specifically older people, and it was for people with disabilities from Germany from some other countries, we are throwing people out of apartments, but we are going to turn over apartments for migrants. That's no problem. And someone will explain to me that this is a social state. Yeah, sure. This is purely ordinary if I use the word of my mother from a well-known Slovenian policy, a major mess which the social state, which is enshrined in the constitution, has nothing in common with the rule of law at the beginning and with the rule of law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this referendum is not only necessary, it is necessary to give a clear signal to all those who are in power in Slovenia, but, above all, if the Slovenian authorities were smart and responsible, it would also be used to have an argument against European institutions. For believe that this matter is not over. It's only just begun. It's only just begun. And then you'll have to have all the arguments to say, look, we can't do that much, we have our problems, we're a country that's not that rich, but first we have to help our own. First, we have to help that mom with the two kids we read about the last time they threw her out of the apartment. First of all, we need to help that Slovenian disabled person who even took away his medical devices. First, we need to help those two Slovenian people with disabilities, patients with cancer who were no longer able to pay the costs and were therefore thrown out of the apartment. These, ladies and gentlemen, must be helped! First. Then it is necessary to find one real way and help there and so that the aid will achieve its maximum effect, and this is by no means an import of migrants into Europe, but it is necessary to remove the gloves once this dear Europe, make some safe areas, direct people there and then channel the aid there for as much money as one person here stays a year, the Slovenian state could spend more families in the Middle East for a year. This is said, even in this respect, in economic terms, it is not about help, it is something else. It is a mix of financial accounts, political accounts, political accounts of some who see new voters there; as you remember the title of Youth, which was written on the front page by Welcome to 50,000 new citizens. If this were to be the case, a very interesting point, which is seen in public discourse; if it were refugees, of course they would be eager to return home, then no one would talk about their integration and everything else. But that's all there is to it. What if they're refugees? Of course, the trick is that we all know that once we stop pretending that these are not refugees, but that Europe is overwhelmed by economic migrants who do not have the slightest intention to return home, but, of course, they intend to bring others with them, in a way that exploits the stupidity of Europe, which is then paying a huge tax. A tax that's multiple. A tax that is material, because in danger, we know people don't spend, money stays at home, entrepreneurs don't invest, they don't open new jobs, money doesn't circle, and the economy doesn't work. On the other hand, there is, of course, security and respect for human integrity, those things that should be self-evident and above which there should be nothing. Every Slovenian citizen, every Slovenian citizen, every child has the right to personal integrity and full security. And no one has the right to do that! No foreigner, no foreign country, no international community, no right can and must never be over this right. And that's why what happened last year was so wrong, and that's why what's going to happen is also a huge problem. If anyone naively thinks these things will stop, let him read the statements made by Turkish President Erdogan, who is using migrants to blackmail the European Union. And believe me, this will never end. However, if the European Union is so naive as to open borders and abolish visas, you can believe that some will suddenly get those passports and come as tourists. And then again it will be very interesting to see how the debate will be about how to send them home. The problem will be the same only around the curve; there will be another image. The second thing that can cause even more shock in the short term is the question of Macedonia. At this point, what we have proposed in the SDS last summer – in order to protect the border between Macedonia and Greece. Today, Macedonians, who are not members of the European Union, who have been repeatedly played and humiliated by the European Union, defend the European Union, together with the Multi-Garden Group, with the help of some, in particular our people. But do you know there will be elections in Macedonia? And do you know that it has been officially announced by leftists who, due to some mistakes of the ruling coalition, are very likely to be counting on winning to reopen the borders to all and that the Greeks are looking forward to this because they want to continue screwing Europe – they should be thrown out long ago – and, on the other hand, they also serve very well. You know, the migrants who came in the waves didn't come with some boats, it's a larifari and a fairy tale for the children. They drove them, the Greeks drove them by ferry, with these big ferry, and they served them well at the expense of all Europe, its safety and its well-being. And that's really what this is about. It is a question of the future, the question of the existence of Europe, which for the first time is being put into question. On the question of what country we want to leave our descendants and what country we want to live in. In the SDS, we are convinced that our goal is that this must be a safe country, that this must be a state of prosperity and that this must be a social state, which, of course, will first help itself, its people, its entrepreneurs and only then and in the right way also anyone else, if this really needs help. Because of this and because in Slovenia the Constitution stipulates that the power of the people and places direct decision-making of the people, the direct exercise of power, i.e. the referendum, we propose that a referendum be held on this issue, how much, if any, should Slovenia leave open borders. For the question of asylum seekers is that this is being used to great advantage, that this is being misused, and that this is why everything that Europe is built on, its fundamental values, its achievements, its prosperity and its existence is questioned. This is a simple question, Slovenia is our common home, whether we are democratic enough to allow the Slovenes and the Slovenians themselves to express clearly at the referendum who and in what number they are willing to accept into their home. At the referendum, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u49	The proposal for a consultative referendum was addressed by the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Mr Lilliani Kozlovich for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 18th session. 4. 2016 considered the proposal for an invitation to tender for a consultative referendum submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee also received a written opinion on the proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service. On behalf of the proposer, there is a mag. Branko Grims, in his initial supplementary explanation, presented the reasons for his view that the proposal was justified. He highlighted the importance of determining the highest number of applicants for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia, which has the right to decide by the people, the inhabitants of Slovenia. This would result in the realization by the Constitution of a certain right that in the Republic of Slovenia has the authority of a people who can exercise it through a referendum. The representative of the MNZ, State Secretary Boštjan Šefic, briefed the Committee on the current situation with regard to migration flows in the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia and the number of applicants in last year and this year. He presented the basis for granting international protection status to persons, namely the Geneva Convention and the Law on International Protection. Thus, offering international protection to eligible persons is an expression of respect for humanitarian law, which is part of the common European legislation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Head of the Stroh God, pointed out the shortcomings of the proposal, namely that the question to be raised by the referendum should be clearly expressed that, from a legal point of view, it would be necessary to assess the clarity of the matter, the content of future legislative provisions, which should include the proposed issue in the legislation, which is also reflected in Article 28 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative. The title of the referendum or the proposal and the content of the referendum question are also inconsistent. In the discussion on the proposal for a consultation referendum, the members of the SDS and NSI members stressed that the eligibility of the proposal for a consultation referendum was mainly seen in a limit that would cover only those applicants who were really needed and the establishment of a numerical framework for applicants who would be able to control it at national level. While the remaining members of the committee, both the coalition and certain opposition types, have expressed their disagreement with the proposal for an advisory referendum and their opinion on the basis of which a proposed limitation of the granting of international protection status would be contrary to the provisions of international law, the content of the Geneva Convention provides that each applicant shall have the right to international protection in a procedure from which the decisions are ultimately justified by the eligibility or inequitableness of an individual to international protection. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on a proposal for an opinion that the proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants was appropriate but not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u51	To present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Boštjan Šefić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u52	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered the proposal for a consultative referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Member, Jozet Tank, on 4. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the basis of the debate, the Government decided not to support the proposal. At the time of consideration of this proposal, it should be pointed out that the subject of the decision in the proposed consultation referendum is unclear and that the description of the proposal for a referendum question is inconsistent. The proposal for a consultation referendum concerns the accommodation of migrants, while the referendum question concerns only the category of applicants for international protection. The categories of persons concerned by the proposal for a referendum decision and the referendum question alone are different legal and factual categories. It should also be pointed out that the provision of protection to persons seeking protection constitutes respect for international humanitarian law and human rights, and therefore setting quotas or limiting the number of applicants for international protection would constitute a violation of access to the procedure as a basis for refugee law, a violation of one of the fundamental human rights, namely, the right to asylum and non-compliance with the Geneva Convention. The Republic of Slovenia has applied the option of restricting reception or quota in the event of the relocation or permanent relocation of applicants and persons in need of international protection from other Member States of the European Union or third countries where there is no obligation to access the procedure since it has already been carried out in another Member State of the European Union or third country. Throughout the process of negotiating cooperation in permanent resettlement and relocation projects at the level of the European Union, she insisted that the decision was voluntary and that the number of persons accepted must take into account the integration and accommodation capacities of the Member State, thus limiting or fixing the quota of persons to be accepted by the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia has used a number of other measures as an effective response to an increased number of applicants for international protection, such as the Ordinance on the establishment of a list of safe countries of origin, and has also drafted a new law on international protection, which will enter into force on 24 April of this year, establishing rapid and effective procedures for deciding on applications for international protection. All of the above points out that the Republic of Slovenia uses all legal possibilities to adopt from other Member States or third countries such numbers of applicants for international protection as may offer them effective and rapid procedures, reception and conditions for integration into Slovenian society, while respecting the internationally binding and constitutionally protected Institute of International Protection for all persons who apply in its territory. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the issue to be adequately and effectively managed, in accordance with the law and interests of the Republic of Slovenia and in compliance with its international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u53	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia, half a million refugees and migrants have passed the Greek-Macedonian border from October 2015 to the implementation of tighter controls in March 2016 without disrupting and jeopardising the safety of citizens. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been managing the migration crisis sovereignly since the beginning, monitoring the situation, adapting and stepping up its actions, responding to and respecting the wishes of local communities, and this has also been the case with regard to the housing of migrants. Despite the absence of new arrivals of migrants, the government remains ready. The so-called Balkan route no longer exists; migration flows have calmed down along the summit of the European Union-Turkey. There is no longer any need for emergency measures and resources, especially if these are contrary to the Constitution, ratified conventions and international law. Data on the number of applicants for international protection in Slovenia do not show any real reasons for the introduction of quotas. In 2000, we had more than 9 thousand asylum applications and in 2015 only 277 requests, and from September 2015 to 30 March 2016, 624 requests, despite half a million people having come to Slovenia, as has already been said. A number of requests for urgent and extraordinary meetings, a number of parliamentary issues and a proposal to call for an advisory referendum testify to the intention of SDS to create an atmosphere of fear and emergency. It is further necessary to establish that in March 2016 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an implementation plan whereby, in accordance with an agreement at European level, it will relocate 567 persons from Italy and Greece and will permanently force 20 persons from third countries, a total of 587 people. According to the SMC, this really should not pose a serious threat to the life and safety of the population. According to the Law on International Protection, the status of refugee in the Republic of Slovenia is recognised to a person who shows that in the country of origin he is threatened by race, religion, nationality, political belief or belonging to a specific social group. The decision on the recognition of refugee status from the date of service shall be regarded as a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia. However, subsidiary protection shall be granted to a person who does not fulfil the conditions for recognition of refugee status, but shall show justified and credible reasons for causing serious harm to his or her return to his or her country of origin, threatening death or execution, torture or inhuman or degrading treatment. Subsidiary protection shall also be granted to a person for a serious individual threat to life or freedom due to arbitrary violence in the country from which it comes. Providing protection to persons seeking international protection means respect for international humanitarian law and human rights and Slovenia's humanitarian and solidarity attitude towards the world and civilians who are at risk of conflict or who are persecuted in their country of origin. The proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia proposed by SDS Members should be rejected. It foresees the adoption of legislation contrary to Article 153 of the Constitution, which states that laws must not be contrary to ratified international treaties and European Union law. A law restricting the annual number of applicants for international protection would constitute a breach of access to the procedure and would be contrary to the Law on International Protection, the Constitution, the Geneva Convention on Refugees, as well as the laws of the European Union, the Dublin Regulation and other directives which Slovenia is obliged to respect. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodation of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia is unnecessary, inaccurate and contrary to the basic international conventions in this area. Members of the Modern Centre Party will oppose this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u55	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, for which Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much. President, I don't know if you've been listening to the provost or not, but a few strong words have been said at the expense of the party I belong to, so even now, a little look away, don't listen, just like you did before. Of course, the SDS Group proposed a referendum on the subject of quotas, namely on how Slovenia should respond to the migration crisis and how many migrants, of course asylum seekers, should be accepted. Let me start with the following: Slovenia, in addition to Greece, the country which in particular threatened Schengen in October, November and December last year, but also in January and February. In fact, it is that country that has failed for the first time in history in addition to Greece and has failed to respect the Schengen rules. All the talk about how half a million people went over ours and no one got hurt is, of course, nicely said, stupidity. Mildly said stupidity because it is necessary to add immediately that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not respect Schengen. The Home Secretary is threatening me with some kind of criminal complaint, so let me repeat what I said. Nearly half a million people went illegally across the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a collective offender of the crime under Article 308 of the Penal Code, because it should prevent illegal crossings of the state border and, of course, did not prevent them. The next question, of course, is how to proceed. Indeed, the agreements between the European Union, Greece and Turkey, if you want, are what they are, we know them, they are working at this moment, but they are primarily at the expense of one non-member of the European Union, which is Greece, which effectively protects the borders, the borders of the European Union, if you want. The Greek police or Macedonian police account for about as many people as the Slovenian police consider. And as you can see, with minimal aid from abroad, in fact, the Macedonian police today, this is the police of a country that is not a member of the European Union, which is not a member of the Schengen, which is not a member of NATO, actually protects European borders. This means that with the police of this size it is possible to do so, but the Slovenian government has not provided this in the past. And since the Slovenian government has not ensured this, of course we have been forced in some way to propose a referendum on this subject, that the people say what needs to be said, as proposed by Mr Grims, how many people we will accept and how many people we will host. In the previous position, there was, of course, a lot of moralization as to how the issue would be illegal and unconstitutional. Yeah, how do you know that? How do you know that? So someone's a futurologist or something, not a historian. Why? Indeed, we are proposing a referendum in which citizens would say what the quota is and, secondly, that they are so willing to accept it. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is then obliged, in fact it is not obliged, because it is a consultative referendum, to adopt the legislation the people want. How do you know such legislation would be illegal? How do you know it would be unconstitutional if there was no law at all? It's a mirage. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has not been identified negatively against the proposal for a referendum. She pointed only to the need to be careful in terms of the constitutional and international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a law that could possibly be adopted following such a referendum. That's all she said. And it wasn't against the referendum that we were clear. And if in the SMC Party you moralize how this would be illegal, unconstitutional and so on, then tell me what the Constitution of Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary is different in this area. What are the obligations of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary different from those of Slovenia in respect of compliance with international rules? Why am I talking about this? Because Hungary is also preparing a referendum on this issue. Slovaks, Czechs, Poles will not go to the referendum, but for once there are no data on this, but they themselves have accepted, their governments have adopted such legislation or government decisions. Are these decisions not contrary to EU rules? They could be. Don't think I don't know these rules and I don't know how well I know them. But if these countries can do it, then Slovenia can do it. There is no reason why Slovenia could not do that. However, I would stress, if it is also contrary to EU rules. Well, what the hell! Well, what the hell! In fact, that's what the Czechs, Hungarians, Poles, Slovaks said. They said that because they have some governments that are responsible to their people. Austria, too. When Austria made a decision on 37,000 asylum seekers to be adopted this year and knows nothing, they were squandering the Austrians in Brussels and dissuading them, if you like, and there was a foreign minister, aged 28 or 29, who said, “Take pictures!” I am obliged to act on behalf of and in the interest of my own country and not in your interest. Of course, we have another government in Slovenia, which said slightly differently: “No, but we will respect everything!” Now, if they say in Brussels that we get half a million, we'll take half a million or so. So this is the reason for the referendum – because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is kneeling on these issues before Brussels, if you want, playing the humble girl or whatever you call it, so it is time for the people to tell theirs and nothing else. If it is possible to take such measures in some other countries, Austria has done the same as I said, they have taken a decision at government level, and they have said 37 000 is the end of the border, and then our government can do the same. And since our government is doing this, of course, we are trying to ensure this by a referendum decision of the people. We will, of course, support the proposal for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u57	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u58	Dear President, the Secretary of State! Although some of you have heard some of our views on this subject on Wednesday, allow me to share it fully with you today. In early March, the SDS Group tabled a proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia. Voters and voters are expected to order this referendum to the Government and Parliament to stipulate by law that the number of asylum seekers should not exceed the number of asylum applications in 2015. Specific annual quotas have not yet been provided for asylum seekers, but according to some data only 277 asylum applications should be submitted annually. In doing so, the applicants formally refer to Article 44 of the Constitution, which states only that every citizen has the right to participate, in accordance with the law, directly or through elected representatives, in the conduct of public affairs. Therefore, it may also participate in the exercise by elected representatives. When it comes to deciding this way and when it comes to a referendum, there is nowhere to be determined or clearly left to political judgment. Moreover, the Constitution only provides for a legislative referendum and does not mention an advisory referendum and prohibits the call for a referendum on laws of urgency to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. This is because the proposal for a referendum is referred to as a serious security issue for migrants. They consistently defend the Constitution, so it prohibits human decision-making on emergency measures to ensure the security of the State. In explanation of the proposal, we can read that the migrant wave will continue and even increase and continue this year, to return migrants from Austria to Slovenia, and poses the danger that the abuse of international protection legislation will become a pocket for migrants, that we do not have a regulated situation in the police and the military, that the Government of Migration is not going to get involved in the right way, so people in municipalities where the Government intends to establish migrant centres are protesting. They also argue that the migrants of Slovenia would cost as much as € 144 million per year and so on. But if we start with money, we would be wondering whether it would not be more beneficial to spend 3 to 4 million, as much as it costs to implement the referendum, even to provide refugees who want to stay in Slovenia. The refugee picture in Europe, and in particular in Europe, after the relatively successful closure of the Balkan route, also shows that not only did the applicants fail at the cost of refugees, but also at other forecasts and allegations. There is no arrival of migrants in Slovenia since 5 March, nor is there any return of migrants from Western Europe. Slovenia has not become a migrant pocket, Slovenia is no longer part of the transit route. Despite some of the problems, the government has successfully solved the problems related to the refugee wave. There were no serious security complications, even the safety of the population and of the refugees were not at risk, even though almost half a million people crossed Slovenia. In the Desus Group, when we tabled a proposal for an advisory referendum, we said that this was primarily a political move by the applicants and not a concern for citizens and citizens, as the proponents themselves like to stress. Surveys have also shown that more than half of the respondents do not support decision-making at the referendum on immigration policy in Slovenia. It seems that the proponents like to forget that Slovenia must comply with the European legislation and commitments we have adopted in the European Union. Why am I stressing this? In 1992, the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Geneva Convention on Refugees, together with some other Conventions, which lays the foundations of the rules of international humanitarian law and the protection of refugees in the world, with the Act of Notification of Succession for the United Nations Convention. The applicants, as an example of the introduction of quotas under the law, always refer to Austria for comparison, but it must be said that the Republic of Austria has not established a limited number of quotas with the law. No country has done so by law, as we would like in the SDS Group. Moreover, the European Commission has already warned Austria twice about quotas. On the basis of the above, it is estimated that the determination of the quota or the limitation of the number of applicants for international protection by law would constitute a violation of access to the procedure as a basis of refugee law, of course also a violation of one of the fundamental human rights to the right to asylum and non-compliance with the Geneva Convention. However, we agree with the proposalers in our work that there will be a need to find common solutions to the migration problem at European Union level, but in the Desus Group we stress that solidarity is crucial and that Slovenia must also bear part of its humanitarian responsibility. We will not support the proposal in the parliamentary group in the light of what has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u59	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished remain present in the Chamber! Migration is a mixture of economic, political and social factors, including both factors in the country from which the migrant comes, forcing him to leave as factors in the country that attracts him. If we put this issue within the historical framework, we can agree without any major opposition that Europe has always been invited to immigration because of economic well-being and political stability, but at the same time due to the need for economic growth and greater political power, and today also due to the ageing population, the immigration workforce is very welcome. Depending on her own needs, the attitude towards migration, the attitude towards immigrants, and the attitude towards refugees have often changed. Thus, one of the most direct effects of the severe economic crisis, which has choked Europe for the past decade, is the situation when the need for resettlement has been reduced in Europe, while the anti-migration, nationalist and broad-based, and, more or less, racist discourse in the political area has deteriorated. However, the acute global and economic conditions are, logically and clearly, not taking into account the needs of the old continent, further increased migration flows from the south, where record unemployment is record, to the north, which, despite the constraints, remains in the perception of these people, the promises of decent life and the chances of survival from their own work. If we add to this the many crisis hotspots that Europe and its allies have created in the name of security protection, economic and other interests, then at the opening of today's debate it is necessary to say honestly at least that the migrant or refugee wave has not only created a Syrian tragedy, but we need to understand the reasons for this so extensive migration of people as well as the responses to them in the wider, perhaps even a century-long context of the movement of global circumstances, actions and reactions. If we are aware of this, then we will also understand that the situation facing not only us, but the whole more developed world, cannot be solved by handball moves and overnight, but only by seeking a new social agreement for the development of a wider region together and by insisting on the values of Europe as it was built from the ashes after the horrors of World War II. In the Group of Social Democrats, we can understand the need for candidates to call for an advisory referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia, where citizens and citizens would be asked, I quote: "Are you in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopting legislation stipulating that the annual number of applicants for international protection does not exceed the number of applications for international protection in 2015?" We understand their need to reopen the broad debate on the migrant wave and everything else. But we want the debate today to be respectful, dignified and patient. Moreover, we will strive not to be hostile and not to be inclined to promote intolerance. But there are certainly questions in this place about why it is necessary to take care of the statements today and right here in the National Assembly, why it is right today that any incitement to intolerance and hostility must be condemned. Why? Because the latest information we can hear is, of course, calm and positive if we want to hear it through the media. People are slowly getting involved with people from other backgrounds. Children are involved in educational processes and so on. And if politics takes a calmer and more respectful tone of debate, they too do not feel the need for mass meetings. In early March 2016, the Slovenian Government adopted an implementation plan whereby, in accordance with an agreement at European level from Italy and Greece, 567 persons could be relocated, including from another Member State under severe pressure on the national, migration and asylum system, and from third countries, those are non-European Union Member States, who permanently relocated 20 persons. The final number is likely to be higher, depending on the current migration situation and the final agreement on the number of displaced persons. In line with this plan, this process of moving people across the European Union is already under way. Ten Eritreans and five families from Syria and Iraq are arriving. These are well-known and accessible policy and public data. It's not a surprise, so there's no need for impatient performances. And if I go back to the SDS proposal for an advisory referendum on whether to ask citizens and citizens whether to adopt a law stating what the appropriate number of applicants for international protection is at the annual level, it would also be right for the applicants to tell them what kind or how large numbers we are talking about. Statistical data show that in 2015 there were 277 applications for international protection in Slovenia. In the first three months of 2016, the request was 489. The number of applications will definitely increase by the end of the year. But we don't know how many Social Democrats there will be. And with those numbers, we don't even want to calculate. This proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodation of migrants cannot be supported. This proposal is too clear. For we cannot support the referendum campaign, which would have followed if this proposal had been adopted, in which, according to the events of months ago, a completely political campaign could have taken place for tax money, which could have been born and would have led to the promotion of hatred of racism and violence. Which, in the sense of a developed democratic society, among which we are Slovenians, is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u61	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The SDS proposal is nothing more than clear evidence that the SDS does not have any reservations in its attacks on power. After years of looting, privatisation, belt tightening, they have lost all confidence, so the growth of their right-wing ideology is built only on the external enemy, and they are refugees in this case. We have seen in history that spears break on the shoulders of the weakest, once Jews, Romi, today refugees. We all know where such situations have led, we have seen what it means to get into power without having to choose the means. The final result was fascism and Nazism. Today we see a dramatic rise in SDS methods: racist rumors, the spread of xenophobia and hatred. Methods to be eliminated immediately. But these methods can only be suppressed by the government and the coalition, which unfortunately are part of the problem and not the solution. Part of the responsibility for increasing this right-wing ideology also falls on the government and coalition, which, by closing borders, militarising and highlighting security aspects, executes the wishes and demands of the right. And it would be high time for the coalition to end it. To finally take a clear stance that must go against the fascism of society. We are not talking any more about the conservative holding of SDS or the stance that would go in the direction of people's parties, but we are talking about the rhetoric that is being used by extremely xenophobic and neo-nationalist parties, and the referendum initiative is nothing more than the spread of xenophobia and the promotion of hatred. This time, too, in the text itself, there is a set of lies and misleading allegations which do not have any basis at all. However, it is likely that there will be a series of completely fabricated stories presented again in the debate, which have already been rejected by the competent authorities on several occasions. In the United Left, we reiterate that the current situation in Europe and the agreements it has concluded are contrary to the Geneva Convention. The closure of borders, trafficking in human beings between the European Union and Turkey, is unacceptable and condemned. A humanitarian disaster is taking place in Greece, and burial sites are being filled on all sides of the external borders of Europe's fortress. But the European Union and Slovenia have achieved their own – the problem and the search for appropriate solutions has fully transferred to Greece what is happening in Greece and no one is interested anymore. If the government is not interested in happening beyond our part-wired, part-board fences, the SDS is not interested in the actual situation within this. The borders are closed. The applicants are practically gone. Statistics on granted asylums are nothing more than shameful. The percentage of granted applications for international protection was 16,25 % in 2015. This year, this percentage even fell to the disgraceful five. So for every 100 applicants, only 5 were given adequate protection. And this is in statistics that show that 42% of all who crossed Slovenia are Syrians and 30% are from Afghanistan. For Slovenia, this is also evident in the country’s security. Last year, 277 people applied for asylum in Slovenia. Only 45 were successful, and by March the application was submitted by 483. Taking official statistics into account, about 25. And these 25 people are trying to make SDS the worst enemy. These 25 refugees are the reason why the SDS has repeatedly tabled demands, recommendations and proposals for urgent action. These 25 refugees, according to the SDS, threaten citizens and citizens, state finances, even more, these 25 people, in their opinion, are only at risk of what they phantomly view as some monolithic Slovenian nation. These 25 refugees represent a security problem of virtually incomprehensible dimensions, so to speak, a disaster in all areas. And with what does the SDS justify these claims? With lies. With lies about alleged rapes, lies about places, even lies about trying to buy Slovenian girls. In order to make common assumptions, the police try and explain themselves over and over again, but the SDS remains in the same tactics. If we repeat our lies enough times, they will eventually become the truth. However, the government and the coalition are silently allowing this to happen sooner than later. If the government had not taken the wrong measures from the very beginning and had not been involved in spreading the impression that we have a crisis and emergency situation, fascism would probably have grown much less. But it is obviously more important for the government not to take a stand against the right, to maintain its strategy of consensus and national unity, and therefore to cooperate in this. SDS requires closure, the government announces technical barriers at the border the next day. SDS requires tightening asylum policy, the government is preparing amendments to the Law on International Protection to meet this requirement. But this is obviously not enough for the SDS, and a referendum should be urgently needed now, as voters and voters in the last elections could not be identified. As far as SMC's concerned, it may even be true. Citizens and citizens likely expected a little more compassion and a positive attitude towards refugees and minorities in general. In the SDS, however, policy has been the same all the time if their hatred could not be directed against the refugees, and in recent years it has been directed against the deleted and the Roma and the same-sex-oriented could also be listed. The referendum on how many people fleeing war and almost certain death to afford protection is certainly unacceptable. I have to give protection to everyone who needs it. The only criterion for granting protection is that a person shows that he is being persecuted and that he is at risk of serious damage on return. It is not race, nationality, age, education, or any other personal circumstances that play a role in this. If someone is being persecuted, we need to provide him with adequate protection. Pika. And this point in today's session should never have happened. Just like a cutting wire shouldn't happen. Just like it shouldn't come to militarization. Just as no one in his right mind could suggest, let alone confirm the new law on international protection. And just as the EU-Turkey agreement should not have happened and the Greek-Macedonian border closed. Therefore, not only do we oppose the SDS proposal, but we strongly condemn it in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u63	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u64	Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u65	Presidents, you really do let members and members, or any other representative of the elected people, speak whatever we say. But what we listen to from the United Left goes beyond all borders – “fascist and Nazi inclinations of the right and of the SDS” First, honourable Member of this Parliament insults each member of this House personally and also by party. My grandmother was killed under Nazi fire, and you're wearing a red star in the National Assembly, or a colleague, that killed all the people lying around the Devil's Cave. And I have to keep hearing in this National Assembly how I have fascist and Nazi tendencies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made several requests for a resolution on totalitarianism, all of which no one has accepted. And we constantly pose a threat here. That's the first one. Second. “We have seized, we have plundered SDS.” I'm asking you to prove it or apologize to us. I'm not a predator. So far, I am an honest citizen, who I have never seen from within the court, except when I went with the Justice Committee. I do not allow this to happen in person, and I do not allow this to happen to my parliamentary group and other colleagues on the right. Because that's unacceptable. We can have hard words in this national council, we are, I believe, even sometimes offensive, but that's too much. I think it's just that this kind of discussion we've heard before, what it should be like to have a patient debate, talk about a referendum, and then we're hearing about everything else. [[...]] And say they're rapes and violence, and they're not. All of this was on TV, these are the videos, they're alive. I'm sorry, President, I'm long, but, yes, these are extreme lies and insults. There are too many of these and too many times this is happening from people who stood and cried along with those who were armed on Slovenian street, and I will hear that I have Nazi and fascist tendencies. Who's got any tendencies? Who wants blood? Let him look at his pictures where he's been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u66	You know, it has been said many times that I do not interfere with the views of the members of the groups. The views expressed by the groups are not just their responsibility. You may have said what you think about it, so I don't think it's really a process that requires any other reaction, just that you've been heard. It's absolutely enough. But people create their own opinions. In this House, unfortunately, we also have to hold large debates, and it is better to have them here than anywhere else. That is why I now give the floor to the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u67	Dear President! Yes, it is true, which is difficult to have the position of the Group of Members after such a fighting, fighting stance of the predecessor, the expression of the United Left. However, it has been eight months since the European Union, with which Slovenia has also been in the vortex of global change, that is to say, into the migratory flows that still dictate the policies of the Member States on a daily basis. If someone at first thought that it was just a humanitarian crisis, from which we will emerge as benefactors, solidarity with foreigners leaving their homes in fear of war, it is clear to everyone today that we are talking about the migrant crisis, including the many economic migrants who want to go to the promised country, that is, the European Union countries. Despite the closure of the Balkan migration path today, all questions remain regarding this issue, from the financial capacity of our country to the security issue, to the open. Let's take a look at some facts. Firstly, the amendment of the Law on International Protection adopted a good month and a half ago maintained the same level of rights of applicants and the rights of persons with recognised international protection. Even more, it has aligned the law with the Foreigners Act, whereby persons with recognised international protection have the right to merge with family members, not only as immediate family members, but as required by the European Union Member States, the European Directive, but also as regards all other relatives of the applicant, where there is a living community that is essentially similar to the primary family or has the same function as the family, which means, above all, genuine family ties between family members, physical care, protection, protection, emotional support and financial dependence. And this is exactly what we have been opposed to in New Slovenia, because our country has not even exacerbated its asylum policy in the light of the recent large-scale migration crisis, which the Republic of Slovenia has also faced. Another time. The new Slovenia had already proposed, with the amendment, a restriction on the total quota of persons for the recognition of international protection. In doing so, we were guided by only one, which is the financial capacity of the State to provide a certain number of these people with a decent life and, of course, that they are not deprived of Slovenian citizens. Taking into account all the accommodation capacities of our country and the financial capacity to ensure all the rights that go to these persons, it is essential that the State clearly and clearly state the number of those rights. We have not yet come out of the economic crisis, we are still recording a high level of unemployment, particularly among young people. And still a large proportion of our population depends on social security benefits. Third time. At the beginning of this month, the government issued an invitation to broadcast apartments owned by a natural person. They would therefore be inhabited by persons who were granted international protection. Look, on the one hand, it's really hard to accept. What about our young families? Young families who don't have any real opportunities to get to their homes. Fourth time. Persons with recognised international protection also have the right to health and social protection, labour market integration, the right to education and integration in integration procedures, in addition to the right to permanent residence. And what amounts are we talking about in this case? On the amount of the monthly net average age pension, this is estimated at EUR 613 in February. Fifth. From September 2015 to mid-April this year, 650 people submitted an application for international protection in Slovenia. In these days, we therefore expect the first ten refugees to be accepted under the relocation scheme. From Italy and Greece, 567 people who need international protection will be transferred to us. And six times. Let us not forget, too, that the issue of migrants is closely linked to the issue of the security of the State and its citizens. In the face of today's malnutrition of the Slovenian Army and the police, and in the fact that the migrant crisis can develop again in an uncontrollable dimension, the Government should be aware that, despite the current silence, we must not sleep. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of these points, according to New Slovenia, dictate the Government's action and active work in the field of migration policy. And since we obviously cannot count on an active common European strategy to deal with migration in the future, we are obliged to prepare all the grounds for us to be able to survive a certain number of people with recognised international protection and, of course, to provide sufficient economic conditions for our people at the same time. In New Slovenia we are aware that we will have to accept a certain number of refugees, especially those from the most vulnerable groups, families with children, women, minors, those refugees who really need our help. And such help should never be denied to these people and never be denied. Of course, all these issues actually concern our citizens, no doubt it is a matter of broader importance, since they are still connected to our future, including our identity. We will have to do this homework together as a country, which is why the country is responsible. The Government shall, through the legislative process itself, ensure the conditions for all the above-mentioned, without any consultative referendums and without unnecessary costs for its implementation. In the light of all the above, the Christian Democrats will not object to the proposal of the proposer to call for an advisory referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u68	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u69	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! It was very difficult for me to listen to certain discussions. We're talking about the accommodations of migrants. Normally, if we want to have migrants in our midst, the first one of our most important things has brought tolerance back. And in this hall, I did not have this sense of tolerance, much more of a strong mutual accusation and an inappropriate expression. I wouldn't want to talk about it anymore, and I'll be right back on the subject. A consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants, yes or no, at the moment. We in the Group of Non-Aligned Members are firmly convinced that there are other options that could be used. And I'll base that on the next one. Who is the one who is exposed to migrant housing? This is the local environment, the local population, and I think that they are the first to express their opinion on whether a particular local environment is appropriate so economically, sociologically, economically and so on that I will not mention. That's essential. And certainly the most important role can be played by the local community, the local community’s leadership, the municipal council. That's essential. Because if they assess that there are opportunities, then we can be calm, and the government will also get reliable data, what our absorption ability is, and not that there is much to think about, discussion, how much and how we can accept migrants. We must be absolutely aware that in that local environment all the conditions must be laid down so that these migrants who will be accepted can also be integrated in a human, cultural way. And that's the most important thing. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Related Members, we expect a sober mind at this time, and we call for us to try now that there is still time to take advantage of other opportunities to take advantage of this overheated atmosphere for the benefit of all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u70	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum. Mr Dusan Radič has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! The question of the consultation referendum should be as follows: Are you in favour of the adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of legislation providing that the annual number of applicants for international protection does not exceed the number of applications for international protection in 2015? Interestingly, I do not know why exactly 2015, when there were half a million migrants crossing Slovenia, 277, so every 1805 migrant asked for international protection in Slovenia. To refresh the memory, in 2000 9 000 244 people were asked for international protection of Slovenia, in 2001 511 thousand and in 2003 101 thousand. Slovenia has never said Willkommen refugees. On the duality and illegality of crossing the Slovenian border: Migrants entered Greece first on their long journey. Then they came to Macedonia, and they continued their work as they crossed Serbia. They then joined another member of the European Union, Croatia. They came to Slovenia, and again, like the four countries before, they crossed it. They continued their journey and, like the sixth on their migration route, entered and left Austria. The 7th was the promised land of Germany. For some migrants, this was not enough and they chose a German neighbour for their purpose, and for eight years they were in breach of border crossing rules. If I go back to Slovenia, a few days or weeks ago, migrants were the main theme of all media. They fought with each other, who would publish a more dirty child, the most bearded refugee, or the Ruth covered woman. But the interest quickly shrugged, we were monitoring only more information as to how many came in and out of Slovenia this day and this day. I hope to say that 99.9% of the Slovenians did not see the fugitive live. He would like to thank once again all those who helped people on their migration or refugee routes. Slavoj Žižek said of migrants and refugees: “The refugees are also wicked, violent, impaled and dangerous.” I wonder how many of them we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u72	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I hope that I will be more serious than the predecessor who accidentally went into the satirical eye of this National Assembly and wanted to make a fool out of Slovenian citizens, especially from the candidates of the consultation referendum or the proposal for an advisory referendum, while he himself follows the one and only Prime Minister of the Government, who almost daily comes with new anti-legal and unconstitutional proposals to the National Assembly. I'll be right back. Today we have heard several times about how we ended the migrant or refugee crisis, how this agenda has been no longer interesting in recent weeks, and how the situation will never be the same as it was. But let's look at the facts, let's look at the research, the data, the analysis of the various international institutions, which, in my opinion, are experts in dealing mainly with migration issues that are taking place mainly in Asia and Africa, and what consequences this can have for Europe. For a European standard, for a European policy, and not least for a European economy, what makes a lot of mistakes is a valuable assessment of the European territory. Let us look at the data that shows that not only millions but millions of people, almost a billion people in Africa in particular, are waiting and hoping for it to open up or relax again, and most likely when, again, they will be encouraged to make Europe a paradise for them. As used to be for Slovenians, the paradise of Switzerland is for people from Africa. Of course, we can hear about how America is ready to accept these migrants or refugees, whatever you want. But of course, they can say that they know what the distance from Africa to America or from Africa to Europe is. Nobody talks about Australia's policy, but it doesn't say how ready it is to accept it, because they have experience, which European media are silent about. What the Australian governments have decided — and in my opinion in a very cruel way — after the first teams of migrants from China started coming from economic migrants from other countries, how they put ships on their external borders and what these ships have actually done. And the world didn't move. It was not a violation of human rights, of international conventions, of their laws, of their constitutions – they made order, in a terrible way, but they did. And when we all fear, when and where something will start to burn again, where it will rest, if Europe was a little tougher at first, we would avoid all these tragedies that are happening at sea, when refugees too want to come to this promised land. If all of Europe were to join together at sea there and say we know exactly who the refugee is and who the migrant belongs to today, we would not be dealing with this crisis any more, we would not be thinking about new waves coming not only to Slovenia, but to the whole territory of Europe. The question is also what Slovenia can afford. I am the second term in the National Assembly, otherwise it is short, four years, but when I look at what kind of laws are adopted, and above all this gap between theory and practice, I wonder what we can afford. And just so there's no mistake, yes, we can afford a certain part of the refugees. Yes, you can. It is imperative that we afford it, but on the other hand, we can afford economic migrants without documents, born 1. 1, all from the same country, and we welcome them. A representative of a party whose programme is very similar to that of Hitler's National Socialism programme, while wearing T-shirts have images of the world's largest communist slaughterhouses, invites these people, while others are xenophobic and do not know what expressions. And what can we afford? While young people are working on where to get an apartment, where to get a house, when, as my colleague Grims said earlier, older swords from apartments, this country is looking for private accommodations for economic migrants. It is not a problem for me to make a state facility there for refugees, but to invite migrants without documents to Slovenia, but I find it disrespectful especially to the Slovenians and to our legal order. It is even more surprising that in all these debates in the National Assembly and elsewhere we can only express one respect, this is respect for the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, who I think is the only one in this government who understands what the refugee crisis is, what the migrant crisis is, and on the other hand we listen to the record of the recognition of various government officials, how they do not want to be around when the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence are in the same position. And if the government has such a problem that it is obvious that a secretary of state, fortunately with knowledge, has to solve the personal conflicts of two ministers, we all have a major problem together, but we are dealing indirectly with the migration and economic crisis. Moreover, we have listened to the modest promises of these two ministers, how Slovenia can receive 50 people per day who will cross the border, then this number was 200, 500, 5,000 and so on. In short, we are talking about two ministers who are obviously unaware of what is happening in Europe and around the world because they are burdened by their own communication forests. The odds. You're so afraid of quotas. And look at the example of Austria, the government itself accepts, doesn't even have to ask citizens, which I think is the highest degree of democracy if you ask people what and how they want, and this is a consultation referendum. Ask the Poles, Hungary, Czechs, Slovaks. Apparently, everyone in charge of SDS and I are in violation of international acts. However, the government, which has a lawyer in charge who has violated the Schengen order, has no problem with the violation, but continues to say to others that they are in violation of such and other matters. Why, then, are European countries, or most European countries, non-problem to you, and the SDS is problematic? They're not problematic, and I'll count them again, Austrians, Hungarians, Czechs, Poles, Slovaks. For instance. What kind of government is it in Slovakia? It's a completely left-wing government. And what did she do? What the SDS is proposing, which is a referendum, and this is a consultative one, is the mileage, if we look from a political point of view. I will not deal with this, today it has been said how much the referendum is supposed to cost, but I remember that amendment by the government five before the 12th, when there was not even a euro for certain proposals, and they were like a million, two million, more million to solve not the refugee crisis, but the migrant crisis. It's not a problem. But when I want to ask people at the referendum on the migration crisis, that is a problem. And this is said by SMC representatives who are aware that they have discussions on the referendum in the coalition treaty itself. Example. Second block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, you will ask people if you will have the courage of course at the referendum. And there won't be a problem when we decide on a billion-dollar investment, you'll ask people about the referendum, but here are three million problems? And that's what the same government is saying, which in the coming days is going to give 50 million for the next few weeks to solve two failed tycoon banks. Three million for democracy is a problem, and 50 million for nearby tycoons is not a problem! Interesting financial mathematics, although I believe that one moment is crucial back here – fear of the will of its own citizens. This turned out nicely at the last referendum, which you still don't respect as a result, because those who were on your side went too little to the referendum. The same as the SDS would say, too few of our members and sympathizers went to the polls, so you won. But people went and also said their nonparticipation and gave their support or support. And you've had the support of the citizens four months ago with ease and ease, no problem. Constitution; mah, what would you do with this constitution! As long as the President of the Government is the most important Constitutional Judges in Slovenia, the Constitution can be violated, regardless of the area you are affording. Send a Member, an unconstitutional law, a fiscal rule, in violation of the Constitution, yesterday we had a debate on how you violate the Constitution and nothing. But you're already having a problem here with how something is going to be unconstitutional. I hope members of the coalition that you are not at once and the legislative branch of power and judges, although perhaps some SMC judge has the desire that once the Constitutional Judge or Constitutional Judge or that the Constitutional Court will be a hundred percent according to your measure, because apparently two or three Constitutional Judges are over-balanced in the Scriptures. As you speak of violations of international acts, take a look at the examples of three quarters of European countries. But when you talk about breaking the Constitution, look in the mirror one day ago, and you'll understand. The SMC representative said: “There is no need for action.” Fine, chichi and wait for others who have already learned the measures for which we want a democratic referendum, and there is no need for you. Of course, once they are proposed by the SDS, you reject them and in three months you will arrive with the same measures. However, the seriousness of the SMC is already highlighted by the fact that we will witness another week where Members already booked holidays on Tuesday, so the President of the National Assembly has convened a regular and extraordinary meeting for Monday, so that poor Members will not be without a scheduled leave of absence for a day, which will probably be the first time, at least since I was in the 10 years of the National Assembly, that this will happen. I remember, however, he thinks that in 2006 when it was July 16th, despite the fact that parliamentary holidays were already full of reserved holidays, people who were on their way to Zagreb turned cars and came back to the meeting of the National Assembly. But this government and this coalition can afford to violate international acts, their own constitution, their own laws, their own work plan, but they're reading it to another. In theory, you report to someone else, but in practice, you work alone. And this is the same government that illegally let half a million people across the border, who will be responsible for it as soon as possible. Therefore, the SMC has no problems, and you can predict problems to someone who wishes to have a referendum under the law. And once again, it's a consultation referendum. And secondly, it is not the closure of borders as one MEP earlier wanted to report how we xenophobics are, we will not release any. And once again, yes, fugitives. But for everything else, there are laws and we want to take care of the Slovenians first, then the refugees, and then everyone else is. Desus said it was a political move. Yes, good morning, Your Honor! If you have ever heard of the notions of government, coalition, National Assembly – that is politics. If there are two defences on the agricultural market to debate politics, this is not a political move, but in the National Assembly it is right that we also have political moves that are supported by content. And the proposal is a substantive and political act, so I ask the honourable Members of Desus to go to the National Assembly with non-political themes because they obviously do not smell political themes. They said the amount for the referendum should be spent differently. That's Desus. What are the average pensions in Slovenia and what did Desus do for them? If there are three million problems here, then I suggest they immediately propose an increase of 10% in pensions tomorrow, and let's see those heroes who have a problem with us going to the National Assembly of Politics. For the United Left, once again, it's a shame to lose words. We can ask them about their intentions, the invitation of refugees and migrants. How many refugees are colleagues who do not have time to discuss because they say the position of the parliamentary group, they address everything differently with different insults and then they flee the hall. This is happening at almost all the points they don't like because they don't have the courage, the guts, the flies, the insults, and they run away. And I would ask them how many refugees you are actually prepared for colleagues from the United Left Group to take into your homes, because you know, the government is looking for private accommodation for migrants. I'm asking you how ready you are to accept the fugitives. The Secretary of State will probably agree that at least the prominent officials of the United Left have no desire to accept anyone, because they obviously have too much time and prefer to go to protests in the front lines with steel bars to fight when it is actually necessary to show compassion and these heroes are not close. In short, let me finish. This is an act of legitimacy and legal proposal by the SDS Group, which you will obviously reject in the position of the groups of Members, because you are in fact afraid of the will of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u74	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u75	Nice greeting on my part, too! Again, we speak SMC, which we want only bad for this beautiful country and yes, we will answer about all our actions, if not sooner, but in the elections, because you know that, and that is a well-known matter. As far as proposing is concerned, everyone has the right to propose from the referendum to the laws, and you know that very well, so here you have all the legitimate right, but we have our own opinion and let me tell you something about it. So, for once, it suits us that we are part of the European Union and that we accept part of their rules and one day we do not fit. This depends on the situation, on the political current, on what, on time or whatever. But that's the truth. The legal establishment of quotas for the adoption of applications for international protection is contrary to the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Refugees and the Dublin Regulation. Next. Under those rules, the State is obliged to deal with any application for asylum lodged. The fact. Currently inhabited migrants are 368 and 13 have thus far recognized refugee status. At 500,000, I wonder what a huge problem this is. But let's move on. Government, this government, regardless of the different views of my colleagues from other parties, has successfully managed this migratory flow. Of course, we can debate how successful, no less, medium, failure, however, is a matter of vision, interpretation or political likeness. The fact that we also need to mention is that, for these matters, we are talking about migrants and this migration issue, which was given no initiative by the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister after meetings with internal ministers, was also given the initiative for the Western Balkans, which was well-accepted, and if I say only of these, that this Cerara initiative to stop the flow of migrants at the Macedonian-Greek border was the most resilient. Now, we're going to say, here's always the question of who owns something or doesn't own it, who's taken over something, but these are some facts that somehow now point to this calming of the flow. Another such very important fact that we sometimes forget is that the vast majority in Slovenia did not feel this half-million-dollar flow of people. But if we want to look for everything that was wrong, and it is not a panic, we will always find it, some are also very successful at doing and looking. If I go back to just one little detail. In Logatco there was such a big problem with accommodation and all together, but if you look at a little media, they are very much bragging about how citizens and migrants work together, play football, work together some projects and so on and so on. I'm just wondering why these scenes are necessary to feed some fear, some intolerance, some misunderstanding between people. It's very easy to do. However, we politicians should also behave responsibly, patiently and rationally, and especially in this refugee matter in other matters. But it doesn't matter that we're moralizing you, but everyone knows their responsibility. Otherwise, some will always look for what is wrong and bad, not how they can do and do things together. Slovenia, according to its capabilities and resources, I think it has shown some high level of responsibility, humanitarianism and commitment to these people, refugees, all too often we have as some numbers and some statistics, and of course to the relation to the European Union and at the final stage also to the whole of this problem, the migration problem that has now been in the world. If we are talking about a referendum, we are always talking about costs, and I am also wondering whether this is really so urgently necessary. Now, as far as the funds for refugees are concerned, yes, they have been obtained, but it must also be said that they have been obtained from European Union funds. On migration, we had no number of committees, meetings, extraordinary meetings, and this trend is likely to continue. But I wouldn't run away from this fact that, however we want or don't want it, this issue by the government was adequate, because now it's a matter of looking again, on the other hand, my colleagues will certainly oppose me that it wasn't good and so to the left, but the fact is that most of the population didn't feel it all together. And I am always open to all democratic initiatives, you have your opportunity and this initiative. Unfortunately, from my point of view, from the SMC's point of view, I think that this referendum initiative at this point should not be so urgent and very necessary, because this thing, the idea of this migratory flow, has somehow calmed down, people have somehow realized that this situation is somehow calmed down. I hope that it will continue in this trend. However, the government has all the levers and all the power to act and it is also clear how many people will take over and take over, and it will not go beyond what Slovenia can and will do. I'm sorry I'm against this referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u76	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you, President. My colleague Marko, who always has such very nice discussions, said that we only see one bad and we are always against one. No, we commend something in the SDS Group, but it's true that the media doesn't see it. And we are not always against, at least half of the laws and matters in the National Assembly are unanimously confirmed, so we are also in favour. And more than that, we suggest. In the area of the migration crisis, we have proposed certain things that you have rejected and, with a three-month or six-month delay, adopted the same or very similar measures. So we don't just see bad, we see good, we also commend; from the Secretary of State, if you like, to probably something else. And we're not always against it. But you have a problem because you are always against our proposals and actions. Yesterday, I told you how unhappy the President of the Government is, because as a lawyer, he does not respect the Constitutional Court's decision. And since the Prime Minister is unhappy, then they're unhappy ministers because they have an unfortunate president of the government. Then they're the unfortunate officers who make bad marriages. Then you are the unfortunate ones who have to help bring these bad measures and laws to the full of the National Assembly. And because of your actions, it is unfortunate for the opposition to present evidence to you and the Slovenian public that your actions are weak. Therefore, I already said yesterday, let's help the Prime Minister of the Government with some fine measure, such as asking people at the referendum what they think, and we will all be happy at least one day together, and perhaps the President of the Government will go anywhere for another week on holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u78	The text shall be by the representative of the Magi's proposers. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Ferruga asked me so nicely to explain a few things, and I like to serve if anyone needs to refresh his memory and put things in the right light. Let me begin with a reminder of your fellow Member Zorčič's performance. When we were on TV Slovenia a few weeks ago – you can see the video – I told him that everything the Slovenian government is doing today I personally proposed to you last summer. And then you received this in writing, because it was as an official position of the SDS written by SDS President Janez Janša in a letter to the Prime Minister of the Government to Dr Cerar. Do you know what Mr. Zorčič's response to this was? He told that key truth, which is essential to understanding how we could be in such a mess and have done so much damage as it is. He said, "Yes, Mr Grims, you may have really talked about this since last August, but then the refugees were far away and we were on leave." And I have a feeling you're back on leave. Isn't it? For now, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to prepare for the things that are coming, and things will have to be arranged in a completely different way, as regulated by the Visegrad Group, which should be taken as an example. By the way, you said, "Yes, we offer you cooperation." Oh, run, run, run! What about last fall, when we offered you cooperation, and we suggested exactly what needs to be done, but you acted like a fool and voted against. And when I proposed to Parliament just three months ago to cooperate with the Multigrarian Group of Integration, you voted against, and so did you personally! So much for your strong cooperation. After the case had already been heated to the sky, however, there was one very interesting event that the President of Janez Janša sent me to replace him with the National Security Council, which, as you know, is run by the President of the Government, where all the ministers, the Director of Sova, the Director of General Staff, the President of the State comes and also the President of Parliament. And to my great surprise, what it looked like then, as a guest I got a special word in the introduction, only the president of the state spoke before me. Interesting, isn't it? And then, you won't believe it, it's all really starting to come true, what we're talking about. And then for a moment, I even hoped we were really close to consensus. And I say we were. And this would be necessary because it is a question of the fate of Slovenia and also of the fate of Europe, but we must first be interested in Slovenia. However, this only applied to those meetings in the National Assembly where no one who entered Slovenia via another European Union country, which are of course all safe countries, could apply for asylum in Slovenia anymore, because it is a pure abuse of international rules, and you all know that. He also knows Dr Cerar, who, by the way, is the author of this amendment, and the Minister of the Interior has come to propose him to Parliament, you supported him on the committee, at the meeting of the National Assembly, while the Minister has been defending him for another 20 minutes, and that is good, reasoned, but you all voted against. And now you're telling me about cooperation in such matters. Put such cooperation on your side for the hat! We are, yes, for honest cooperation, but we do not see any credible partners for it. You don't support your own governments, but you prefer to sit on left-wing forums and demagogy to be nice, multicultures on left-hand TV. Isn't it? But you know what is a multicultural – Paris was a multicultural, Cologne was a multicultural, Brussels was a multicultural, and there will still be multiculturals in Europe, nothing to fear, in such a European policy as we are now witnessing it. What we offer on the question of the referendum is nothing more than a lever to which the government and the ruling could rely in order to more effectively defend the interests of the state of Slovenia also on the outside. For believe that this madness will not be over for long. I am most afraid that this will never end and that Europe will split up because it will never last. Now you say, the current is no longer, yes, of course, down is really happening what we proposed to you last year, but we were making a fool of you and today you are selling this as a great achievement by Mr President of the Government. But the problem is, it doesn't have to hold on to that, too. They, once again, if you have heard from the beginning, have elections now, there have been some serious mistakes by the ruling party, in particular their president of the country, who is also from this party, has done them a very strange thing at home and may happen to lose the elections. And the leftists are already predicting that they will then reopen the borders, they even gave it in writing, you can check if you don't believe me. So what's it gonna be? Then it will be the end of the big words again. And that's why I'm saying we need to prepare for these things now. Even if that doesn't happen, there are at least two reasons why this referendum is necessary. The first is no European policy, Europe has no policy at all. Europe, according to Churchill, that there is only that country, only that international community that defends its borders does not exist at this time. And that's the problem. What's going to happen? Even if this border holds down, it will continue to flow through other channels, either through Italy or across another country, because it does not matter, but it will definitely flow into Europe. What will Europe do? With a pact like that with Erdogan, she'll deliver one of them and get the other back, and she'll get you legally. And then she'll have to drive them around Europe, say quotas. And these already apply to Slovenia. And you should tell me here enough, if you don't understand. I really want to know when you're going to say this, because it's never going to end, and you can believe me, so write down what I just said. Because what? There's going to be a new wave coming in, and there's always going to be one going back and there's going to be others legally for that, and then it's going to be said that some countries are already more burdened, and now I'm going to be even less burdened. If you think this is just my imagination, go see what the European Commission announced last week if any of the rulings have not noticed. I don't know that I'm the only one who ever notices it in this country. What did the European Commission predict? In order to significantly increase the burden under the mandatory quota reception of those countries that have not yet adopted such a large number of migrants. Welcome! Has anyone recognized Slovenia in this sentence? Now do you understand what I'm talking about? And if you want to resist this, because you believe that a Europe that can't pull a valve will eventually explode and rape everything alive with ever-increasing quotas and this will go on forever. And don't tell me, 'cause every month it's only gonna come after 50. Yeah, well, that's that frog cooking thing -- if there were 500 of them all of a sudden, they'd tell her if she got 50, and then it's not that bad. And what if it takes so many years and so many years? You know, that's the cost. I'll leave security for a moment. You used to say something about costs. And don't mess with me. Three million would cost a referendum, you said. Come on, what the Government has provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year is only one year for migrants, 123 million. Is that change or what? That's more than thirty times that, if you happen to know how to count. But, ladies and gentlemen, you say it's from Europe. Yeah, wait, who's paying for Europe? We're sending her money, too. That's our money around the corner. And that's not the whole of Europe, half of it isn't from Europe. And so we can finally figure out that over 100 million euros went directly to the budget money for migrants, and there is no money to help people, for things that are happening that I said a little bit earlier. Go online, because it's all on the Internet if you think you want to check them out. You know it's not only the truth, it's just the tip of the iceberg. That's huge. We have a lot of social problems in Slovenia. And you should help these people first. “Slovenia is a legal and social state” if I quote Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Or do you hope to look me in the eye and say that Slovenia is a social state? It's bullshit. It's not. Slovenia is the country in which, in the past few days, two children and two mothers are being thrown on the road, while they are renting housing for migrants. And that's what the state's gonna pay for, and that's not a problem. But a mother with two kids throws herself on the road? Well, your government is so by the way. We've read about how they seized all the medical equipment from a cancer patient. He's got the trunk, he's got it all, he's got the vending machines. There's no money for that, but we're renting migrant apartments, and that's what the government's gonna pay for. And it's a social state. Well, don't mess around. What is a problem is that not Europe, and unfortunately at the moment the Slovenian government no longer has any discretion, not even one understanding of the fundamental values on which this Europe was built – to help its fellowman, to ensure the well-being of all people to help the one who needs help. But of course, every country has to do it with itself first, then it only goes to help others. But then you have to help in a way that's effective, that's reasonable, without causing new problems and new costs. And reasonable help to people in the Middle East or Africa, if you want, is help that would lead to an efficient economy, to create security and an effective economy, but there, not by bringing these people into force. This is the stupidity of the highest category behind which he hides something else entirely. Remember, from the beginning, what stories and nonsense we've heard to give a new economic impetus to Europe. Today, everyone with Germany recognises the principle that this will cause the crisis that Europe has never seen before. By the time I was saying this last fall and in the spring I had said it on TV, but I was tired, and I was told what was already said, that everything, only man no, I will not mention it, that a colleague had already looked over there and one part of it was counted. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what you should be doing because you're in power. So you're saying, we're here to cooperate. We offer you cooperation, only you reject anything out of pure political prestige, something out of calculation, and something out of naivety. The political account is in what Mladina had on the cover of “Welcome 50,000 new citizens” on the naive assumption that they will be their voters. Those who are coming will be the ones who wrote it, throwing it down from the towers if I look at what's going on in the Middle East, not that it's going to be their electorate, but that's obviously not what they're thinking. But the other thing that is, is how much and what levels it costs. This costs first of all the material, specifically 123 million taxpayers' money from the budget. It becomes potential, all that was lost business opportunities because of everything that was going on is also the cost of this story. And for this cost, families could live for years and years there in the Middle East, and there would be no security, no social, no other problems. If, of course, the governments leading us were to act with reasonableness, they would not want to hear it. Then we should roll up some sleeves and give some more weapons, take care of order, security and peace where these people come from, or at least expose some safe areas, and, of course, take care of the functioning economy, as well as everything else, which consists of a normal country. But it's more subtle — you pay a little bit with taxpayers' money, you take a little photo there, and you say, "How am I a multiculture?" But if it's going anywhere, uh, those were some extremists, and that's not the problem. Excuse me, all those who have advocated an open border policy are responsible for every crime that has occurred on European soil during this period, from individual to mass terrorist acts to the worst. They're responsible for taharrus gameo, and they're responsible for thousands of other cases that we could read about since that ten-year-old boy raped at a swimming pool in Vienna. And look at the interestingness, about it and about all the other cases, the whole taharrus gameo, where there were thousands of victims and over ten thousand perpetrators, the media kept quiet for weeks. They were already on the Internet, boasting: “Look how we knocked her down, and everyone was bloody, soup, what kind of losers we are!” That's the kind of footage you have on the Internet. It's a multiculture. Then the official media began to report on this and then the law enforcement authorities began to move and give something away. That's interesting, but the Secret Service knew 14 days in advance what was going to happen. Nobody blinked with a finger. This is Europe's modern multiculture with the power we have. And then you wonder what's going on. Such conduct, of course, leads to extremes. One extreme breeds another. Does anyone want that? We had already had a case in Slovenia on Kotnikova, covered types were standing with sticks in their hands and with something else to do for violence. I'm still waiting on what the investigation will show in this case. I don't know if I'll ever see this happen or not. It was foretold. What is a problem is differences in words and actions. Whoever tells me it won't be for the referendum, at the same time in the same breath, let him tell me how many migrants he'll take home. Well, the government's offering rent anyway, so I don't think there's gonna be any problems. This is about like that activism or those groups of 571 journalists or those overpaid self-declared self-declared fighters for equality and anti-exclusion in various NGOs that, of course, hang like leeches on taxpayers' money and yell about how they demand open-door politics and who says anything else, but even if it mentions security, it is xenophobic, but I don't know what. We have heard this before in this House. Come on. When it was necessary to give apartments to migrants, how many did they report? Nothing. 11 in the whole of Slovenia. Where were all those whiners, even those who were already here today talking about xenophobia, and I don't know what? It's not like that. This is the difference, insufferable, in heaven, between words and actions. And once we're honest with each other, without a word, no nonsense, then we'll talk about what the real problem is. Then it won't be a problem to come up with a consensus. But as long as one is saying one thing and he is doing the opposite, of course, it is simply not possible to reach one smart consensus for so long, as it is still not possible to talk normally. The excellent evidence for this is now this hall – I am speaking to the empty chairs themselves. But I am talking about the matter, which, until now, has cost the Republic of Slovenia 123 million euros plus all the indirect hidden costs, which are huge, which is why many of the services: the military, the police in the first place, and civil protection and all the others who have participated in these activities have worked to the end and through their capacities, and hardly anyone has said a word of thanks to them, let alone to be properly rewarded. But worst of all, when we live in a country where a mother throws herself on the road from her own apartments with children, where she throws herself out of her own homes, people who are sick, who just can't take care of themselves for objective reasons. But this country doesn't care! It's important that he rents housing for migrants. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but now we're dealing with what the state is. The State is organised to ensure that those living in its territory are also adequately protected. Protect their values, protect their well-being, their property and, of course, primarily to ensure their safety. And since the homeland is the home where people live, everyone has the right to decide for himself who and how many numbers enter this home. And that's all we're suggesting. We are proposing a referendum on how many migrants or asylum seekers Slovenia should consider in the coming years. So let this number be drastically limited. However, those who refer to international treaties and the like, I advise you not to read articles from people who have never come to a doctorate in law and their nonsense, but to look directly at the documents themselves and you will see the following. If the Dublin Agreement were to be respected and the second one governed by this area, then we would know that someone entering the territory of the European Union is obliged to apply for asylum in the first country in which he enters, if he is entitled to it. And this country's decision under the Dublin Treaty binds everyone else. That's what they say. One decides about all of them. The asylum shopping to go where it suits you, and you ask this and you go there, I'm going to make a request there, what's really going on in these stories is legally unacceptable under European regulation. It even counts as a crime. This should be pursued by law enforcement, only then should governments, including our own, be persecuted. And of course it doesn't happen. But who's going to pay for all this in the end? People are paying for this with a question of prosperity and security. But if this takes longer, you have perfect cases in Europe that, I hope, no one wants on our soil. Look what's going on in Sweden. In Sweden, the highest level of schoolchildren, the richest entrepreneurs, is massively evicted from Sweden because Sweden is no longer a safe country. This is the country where the number of rapes rose by more than a thousand 400%, not 14%, by a thousand 400%. That's Swedish multiculturals. The Universe is nothing more than an expression of the total conflict and the conflict that has been imposed, imposed under the cover of some false humanity, but I don't know what. But one day we're gonna have to talk about this honestly, ladies and gentlemen! You believe that intercultural dialogue was so defined, and at the time of our government in 2008, the first thing to do is to come up with a solution to name things with the right name. And I name things with the right name, and I expect to find at least someone outside, besides our party, and someone besides it, who would be an appropriate interlocutor, especially in the ruling coalition, hoping to name things with the right name. Because you won't believe when you get an internal mail as accidentally as they talk about these things in the government, they talk exactly as I'm telling you right now, but only then you have to be nice when it comes to the public, and things turn around, and other expressions are used, and they are spoken completely against what they actually thought and against what they were doing. Therefore, of course, Slovenia will not go anywhere in this way. But she's gonna get in a lot of trouble, so believe me. The only real advantage of Slovenia is that until now it was still a relatively safe country, because people felt safe and people appreciated it and that is why it is still so that people are ready to come to us on vacation. This needs to be preserved. However, it is important to maintain that, regardless of what others expect of us and what others have on our shoulders or what, we decide our own destiny. The first condition that we can achieve this is that we hope that we have so much courage to ask what they really want, what they really accept. And that is exactly what we are proposing, a consultation referendum on limiting, drastically restricting the number of migrants or asylum seekers that Slovenia would be prepared to address. This will not violate any international law, for each one of them comes through a secure country, can apply there. In fact, everyone who asks in Slovenia is actually already abusing regulations in the form they are, because always, unless it comes, I don't know, through air from one war country or by sea to swim there to the port of Cyprus, it always goes through the territory of another safe country, but most go either way over five, seven or ten. And if it is only in Slovenia that he asks for asylum, it is simply an abuse of the right to asylum. This is not that we want to deny someone something, but we want to prevent the abuse of one good that has always existed in history and that we have always respected in Slovenia. But when it came to conflicts in the Balkans, there was no concern in our immediate neighbourhood. We adopted women, we adopted children, we accepted those who were actually refugees. And when they came back, we took good care of everything and everything was fine. In this case, you all know it's not refugees. These are economic migrants who come mainly illegally, driven by Arab money, and the excuse is war there in the Middle East. But there are virtually no real refugees. But those who are in Europe, and they are from Ukraine, and Europe is in its eternal shame, with the honorable exception of Poland, have rejected the vast majority of them. While there have been no such cases in Slovenia, this is evident from the conduct. Some stood there covered and with sticks in their hands, for those who were over five, six, seven safe countries came here to blackmail asylum shopping, as it is called. We'd defend them by force, wouldn't we? We'd be using violence. But when it came to those refugees, the real refugees, before the war in Ukraine, none of them stood there. I say it beautifully, as it's called, at home, it's false compassion and false humanism. And when we call these things finally with the right name, as we say, it won't be far from a solution. Until then, we need this referendum to preserve Slovenia, its values, its tradition, its culture and its quality for the next generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u81	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would only suggest that you remind your colleague Grims not to deceive the public about my words on RTV Slovenia. Maybe I used the word "recreation" to be on vacation, but I was talking about August being a tourist season and then it would not be appropriate to set any fences. My colleague Grimes obviously doesn't understand this or doesn't want to understand it, so it would be right to remind him and actually present what was actually happening in the show. I have another procedural proposal. Today we hear a great deal about how the Government, and I don't know who else and in the European Union, is opening the door to economic migrants, illegally. I would suggest that the applicant, in explaining his proposal, also provide certain information on how many economic migrants have been sent to the Republic of Slovenia in recent years. Because I have information that this was significantly more important than it was today. I only know 2008 – you know what time it is – 2 000 100, for example, from Kosovo to the Republic of Slovenia in 2009, the same legislation, 3 000 500. I would suggest that the applicant clarify this statistics, but perhaps he would also say why he did not then propose a similar referendum and limit it. Given that we were at the beginning of the economic crisis, that jobs were shrinking and shrinking, it could then be significantly more on the ground than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u82	Just a minute. This second part was a little abuse of the procedural proposal, so please stick to procedural proposals. I now give the floor to the procedural proposal of the Magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u83	I'd just like to support my friend Zorčič. I also propose now procedurally, officially, that you turn that video right here on the screens, and turn the sound on, and we'll see if anyone else understands his words like I do. Moreover, the public would be very well aware of this and I think that this would also make it much easier for us to understand the essence of this crisis and how we are in such trouble as we are. However, as far as his second part is concerned, I propose, procedurally, that you explain to him the difference between the abuse of illegal migration for hidden economic migrants and, on the other hand, that the State has the right, of course, when there is too little specific labour available, to give people temporary permission to do some temporary work, which is most normal in every country and even in Slovenia. If that were not the case, some industries could not operate at all. But these two mix together, of course it doesn't make any sense. And Mr Zorčič, who is a lawyer, is not a true uneducated person, should know this very well or know this very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u84	You too, the second part of the procedural debate has been more than a debate, so I ask that we speak somehow in the context of the debate or in the context of the views. Now I give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President, you surprised me a little, because there were a few predictions earlier, and apparently no one wants to discuss them today. First of all, thank you for your word. There was something that I thought was very good today. It also turned out that we are on one important point on a very different side, but it is right to talk. It's a good thing we're talking about this. I sincerely hope that it is only a matter of different views, in different ways, how things you think it is right to be saved. I am afraid, however, that this has been heard, but in this context, the so-called migration issues are primarily ideological issues. For I have no other way of explaining to myself the individual opinions which were at the beginning of the day. We were talking about the migrant crisis, but we were talking about an ideological topic, which I think sometimes in history, if not in Slovenia at least elsewhere, she found her place. Finally, we are all well aware of the resolution condemning all totalitarianism. However, we may still be one step too far, but Slovenia will accept it sooner than later. I think it's important that we really look at things from the right side. It has been said that the migrant crisis is no longer a problem and that we see things calm down. I think it may be a feeling of some who either don't know the details or purposely say so. The fact is that the migration crisis is still a major problem, and let me remind you that last summer, whatever the debates were on individual televisions, we simply did not have this problem or the government was not engaged in that dimension that it should have, because it itself said that such waves were not expected, not only by the Slovenian government, but also by any other government. So, I'm just reminding you that the waves are still coming. Let me remind you of this visit, exactly a week ago, the National Assembly visited the president of the Macedonian Security and Defence Committee. He came to the National Assembly precisely and also because he wanted to show or explain the migratory wave and the migratory pressure. His call to Slovenia was that Slovenia should take care of and adopt strict, restrictive asylum legislation and that no one from a safe or European country should come to Slovenia. He warned that if things went this way, the whole of Europe would become Macedonia, and he himself said that they simply couldn't do it anymore and that they urgently needed help to make a great deal of use of this assistance from Europe to Greece and, in fact, to them, nothing. His message was clear and clear, and they will not last long in this way. If Slovenia can help and should help, they believe that this aid is too small – not only by Slovenia but also by other countries. In the proposal of the so-called Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on the Accommodation of Migrants in the Republic of Slovenia, we have put forward our views on why we believe that this referendum is necessary. It used to be in one of the positions, and I think it was said by Desus that money should be spent on something else, I don't know, pensioners and so on. I agree. If we had acted differently earlier and taken certain measures, as also proposed by the Minister of Home Affairs of your Government, perhaps such measures should not have been necessary. Then I'll go back to those, but at the same time, don't be double-crossed. In this National Assembly you passed a law that took sex, you knew that people would react, that they had collected enough signatures in record time and we had a referendum. Even that money could go, sir, for some other purpose if we didn't go in coalition with our heads through the wall. When we talk about certain points of view, let us, however, be correct and look at all the things that are happening in the National Assembly. Besides, I don't agree on how much money it is for the referenda and everything else. This seems to me to be such a fluke, for at the end of the day, let's put an end to democracy, and close down the National Assembly's garden, and there'll be some money left. This is the right that other citizens and citizens have, and this right is certainly above the right of someone else, but in this country, for example, comes under the pretext that he is a refugee, even though we all know that he is a migrant and that he is an economic one. So, on this point, I don't think there's any point in discussing it. Before, there was also a lot of satire in the National Assembly by one of the SMC Members, but I was hoping that he could have a serious debate at some point in time, or that he was the only one who had been whipping politics 20 years earlier in another job, and in his opinion, there were 90 idiots sitting in the National Assembly, and I understand all that, but I do, in such a subject, it seems to me that it is very important that this debate is serious, even because we are talking about serious things. Let me remind you why we believe that these quotas are still necessary, not possible, and once again, it is not that we do not want to help, it is that we want to help in accordance with our capabilities. And it is right that in view of the situation in which we are in Slovenia, which is not pink, it has been said previously, what kind of stress, what problems are happening to our citizens and citizens to tell them what they think, how many people we can also help, given that the Minister answered the question that we are being asked, that migrants are costing us. That question was, I think she mentioned a 25-year-old. 2. 2016, it is a month and a half ago that we are costing a migrant of about 500 euros a month. I think this data is important, people should assess how much we can actually help. And here you are simply not to be afraid of this referendum. This referendum should also help the coalition to see which direction the policy leading it should go. Citizens will say what they think, and you are not committed to that decision anyway, but there can be a very important argument in your follow-up. I hope that you will respect people's views, however, in the light of everything you have said and recorded in the coalition contract. Why did all of this happen, and why did this happen? Let me remind you of the infamous article 51 of your so-called migrant law. The Minister was really trying at the time, and I have this explanation here, because I want to tell you how much time she spent on this amendment, or what was adopted on the committee, and then rejected. This is to limit the arrival from the countries from which the applicant comes and is considered a secure third country under Article 53 of this Law and, given the circumstances of his entry, it is clear that the applicant has entered the Republic of Slovenia from a country which is a member of the European Union. If we could work this out, it would be a lot easier, and now we don't have it. The Minister also made it clear that this is not contrary to any convention, with no legislation, that this is possible and that she was defending it, even because the borders against the West are closing and the wave will return. Now let's see, let's all face to face and answer what's going to happen. Migrants will return, Macedonians alone, if they do not receive help, will not endure, or they will find their way somewhere else, and pressure will be exerted from that side. I'm not talking about it alone. I said earlier, Macedonia warns this, Austria has protected itself with restraint. It's not working. I think we need to be aware that, despite the fact that some in this country have 50,000 new voters, see, in the end, this will not end for them either. Because who said it would end with those numbers? Who said the European boat won't sink and we'll all go, I don't know where we're going? Yes, I don't care, I can't move my head, I have voters and voters who elected me, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, including those who pay taxes to this country, have their children and I think I have a duty to warn about these things. Because it's about all of us. And look now, how do we treat our citizens? Earlier, quite a bit of this has been said by a fellow Member, a family, a single parent family, about which we have much to say when there are other topics and talk about a social state, we are full of mouths, and there it happens that a mother flies, literally gets a bump and with a child stays on the road, knowing on the other hand that we have state apartments that are empty. And then we're looking for a solution in some way. But now I'm going to read you just for the intermezza to see what we're doing on the other hand because of your laws with our citizens. This message, I will read most of it, was sent to me yesterday by a citizen on the basis of a debate on so-called tax boxes. What she said literally writes: "I am asking you to raise a question in the National Assembly, why inspections of espionage carriers have recently been conducted according to, excuse me, Gestapo. I've been hearing about the inn having weekly surveillance inspections lately, and I've had one of those myself. One of the pizzerias near us — I went with my grandchildren to a pizza — four inspectors and two police officers came in just 14 hours ago, immediately closed the register and began to exercise control. When the clock was just around 14, and it was altered, the staff were not allowed to leave the place, they had to hand over the documents, and they were not allowed to take the children to kindergarten. Of course, we could have left the place. The next day, I found out that the surveillance lasted until 4:00. Now, figure out how much the turnover was and who will pay the staff for two shifts for two hours of the week. And it's not a lonely case, the innkeepers say they can't go on like that." Someone raised his hand earlier, when he had what he had to do with the subject — we talk about money, tax money, and how we fill in cash to then empty it in some other way. And now I ask you: Is it not in accordance with the Constitution that it is necessary to take care of its citizens and citizens first? Is it not essential that all live as well as possible? It's never gonna be perfect. We all know that. But you know, cash can also be charged in some other way – with economic measures, with the boom of the economy, with the less unemployed, by not allowing young brains to flee abroad. And spending money for something else, it says, for those who really need help, including refugees, absolutely. But that's the problem, because we've previously released over 500,000, literally without any data. Now, at the Macedonian border, we see quite a few children and mothers who would probably have come to the so-called safe side today if we had looked at it first. And we let young men go, we know which countries. Let me remind you of another analysis that's important to me. It was not made in Slovenia and we do not have any special contacts or sympathy with this German sociologist. His analysis showed that there are 2 billion people living in the triangle between Morocco, Indonesia and South Africa, half a billion of whom, according to his analysis, want to leave the region and come mainly to the European Union. Because that's our problem, the common problem. I am not just talking about Slovenia today, but I am talking about the part of Slovenia where I say that it is necessary to protect itself. Protect and help on the other side. It is also important for me to know that 10,000 children are born every day in Pakistan. Every day! That is why the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is justified and necessary. Let citizens and citizens say how much you think we can and can do, according to the situation in the country, according to the budget we have, according to the expenditure we have and the revenue we have. We will not violate anything; we will still help those who need help. Don't fight with your head, let's see how many of them we took home, it's just everything, of course, when it comes to others. I'm no one, because I don't have the means to. The question of how we could live together. But I'd be happy to help in some other way. But it is true that I help many Slovenian families with their clothes on, and so on, because they also do not have them. And I hear about the stories that literally push me, but they haven't been from today, even since yesterday, no, they've been for quite some time. When you speak, it was said earlier that it was possible to resolve everything in a very calm way without being impatient or expressing fear that the media would react accordingly. Look, you can never sow fear on your own if he doesn't have any Indians and he's justified. Because if you're saying something in your head and you're just scaring me with no information, no data, it turns out that it doesn't have a basis. A certain fear, you know, but also in history shows that they didn't stop it in time, when it had all its dimensions, and when it had made millions of sacrifices, some were knocking on the head, talking about what we had left behind. Of course it'll be a different opinion. On the one hand, you will say that this referendum is unnecessary and that it is a waste of any money. However, I think that we could allow citizens and citizens to say this. It's a big deal. I believe that some can smile because we know that somehow we are only living well, that we are not missing much, but still let us look at the so-called big picture, the situation in Slovenia also where it is harder. And when we see that some leave their homes in some areas, because they simply do not have the opportunity to either create a family there or work and somehow try to find ways to survive. I think that this proposal is nothing bad, let's give quotas, let's say how much we can do, then it will also be clear to the ministry what it can and can't do. This may be good for you, but you do not need to take into account. But the worst policy is the one that ultimately fears citizens and citizens. The worst. And it doesn't end well. Let's listen to the people! Sometimes they know more than we do here, even though we are chosen from their side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u87	President-in-Office, I would kindly remind you that today we are discussing a proposal by the SDS party, that the people decide at the referendum on the question: Are you in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopting legislation stipulating that the annual number of applicants for international protection does not exceed the number of applications for international protection in 2015? Mr. Grimes used to dread how to speak to almost empty chairs. It seems quite natural to me, in this way, as the SDS is leading the debate, I don't know who else can listen. Mr Grimes used to explain some of the seizures, some medical supplies. Mrs. Žibert shared with us some experience about an event when someone ate a pizza and the inspectors came and there was some terrible drama. Now I don't know, there's a Hyde park in England where a person puts himself somewhere and then explains, an explanation can also be hours and hours, and wherever the flow of thought takes him, it just explains what comes into his mind. If that's the image here and we have rules like that, then next time I'm going to take a phone book or an encyclopedia and I'm going to read you a little bit in the middle, and then somehow I'm going to go back to the topic again, or I'm going to find a point, I'm going to say, yeah, because that's also about money. In the end, it all ends with money, and then I'll explain it so much that I've remained in the focus of the debate. Madam President, I propose that you stick to the Rules of Procedure and that you try to keep the debaters somewhere but within the framework of the topic that is on the agenda today, because this debate here is on the subject of everything and anything that comes to mind and then talks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Excuse me? [[advertising from the hall]] Can you wait till I start talking? I'm in charge of the session, not you. Please. Your procedural proposal is to stick to the agenda item, this is the proposal for a consultation referendum on the accommodation of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia, so that I think the next speakers will stick to the topics. Now, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u89	The President, you have given a valuable opinion on my debate, both you and your fellow Member. We have clearly written in our explanation how much one migrant costs us. In my debate, it was clear why I had made certain cases. Because we're talking about money. Here we have clearly written, it is about maintaining finances and it is a security issue. I know that a fellow Member does not read some things, but let him not deceive. At the very least, what I expect of you is that you will protect me as a Member of Parliament because I was talking about the agenda. That's the first time. And second of all, I can speak in this National Assembly. And it is probably not the messenger of another party who will speak what I may say and what I may not say. If this is not the point of the agenda, then this reference should not be because the material is not appropriate. So, indeed, Madam President, I ask you to protect the Members, of course we can now go to overcome the power, the majority of us in this National Assembly, but however, respectable, the voters are watching us. And the voters are assessing our discussions. And leave it to them. Mr Matić, he is discussing in his own way, I am discussing in my own way, and the voters should hear us, because this is our essential role to see what we do for them. So, yes, Madam President, your words, if, uh, others will stick to the agenda, they're pretty inappropriate, given that I've been keeping to the agenda. Why don't you take a look at the explanation, and I've made it clear why. I know it's kind of liquid for you right now, but if you're not, I'll protect myself. I'm already used to it, and I don't have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u90	I suggest we move on. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor now. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as many of you as are left! Allow me to express my own thoughts and, of course, my position on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party for an advisory referendum on the accommodation of migrants. The proposal by the proposer justifies the need for people to identify the number of migrants they are willing to accept or settle because Slovenia does not respond adequately to refugee and migrant flows. I think that very much has been said in the National Assembly about how Slovenia reacts and that we can respond to it, that is, to the reaction of the country of Slovenia, which responds extremely well, that we can be satisfied with this response and that it has faced such a problem so much overnight and has responded appropriately, and that we have also heard from, for example, Members of Parliament, that Slovenia is a safe country, because everything has been said that security is first, although of course we are adding another requirement from our country not only “This is for security”. It is true that thousands of migrants and refugees are still on the road, and it is true that we must remain vigilant and vigilant all the time, but all the measures that the country has taken so far and, of course, also with our help or with the adoption of the measures and laws that we have adopted here in the National Assembly. So we can be optimistic and without any particular illusions about it, but on the basis of the actual situation. And that's why I think that, at the end of the day, because there are probably still these problems or these refugees and migrants, I am speaking perfectly of both categories, because I think it's also the right thing to do, still on the way, we still have a fence for which many of the Members, including SMC, were skeptical and somehow we didn't exactly share the view that it is necessary and that it is necessary. However, the situation or situation has led us to realize that it is right, and that those who live along the border and have had experience with the crowds who have crossed this line, that there are, of course, no brakes on these people for this wire to remain. I could say that there is some justification for the proposal that the need is due to the failure of our government, so that this response, that our opinion is mine, is totally not true, so it is gone and that this action is very good. Secondly, this legal framework of this referendum or this proposal for a referendum. In 1951, the Convention on Human Rights was adopted because the international community was then aware of the consequences and possible harm to individuals who would suffer from fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality or other reasons why certain individuals could not or could not return to their home country. The Convention lays down the obligations of refugees to the State and also the duty of the State to refugees. The relationship is therefore based on non-discrimination. Later, certain minimum standards were adopted. This has been accepted by the international public as a major civilisation advantage. However, the sovereignty of countries in regulating their asylum policy falls under the obligation to comply with international rules. Thus far, it is also enshrined in our constitution, and we believe that, of course, the constitutions must be fulfilled. After all, this is our highest legal act. Therefore, we believe that if I turned a little hypothetically, we could ask ourselves, would it not be entirely inconsequential if we wrote on the referendum question: Are you in favour of the Republic of Slovenia adopting legislation that brings it out of the international legal order? We have heard many times from the proponents that, like Slovenia, other countries have also stepped out of the European legal framework, so that no one is in any event in compliance with European legislation, including several of them, most of the time we hear about the Schengen Code, but I do not think that this is true, however, that the Schengen acquis has also allowed border control to be abandoned in exceptional cases. What is most important, it commands countries to respect the exercise of border control and respect for human dignity. This is probably the right thing to take into account when we talk more or less about the fact that no one is in compliance with European legislation anymore. If these countries are listed here: Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, forgive me, I live in Slovenia and I very much want Slovenia to keep this face to the international community and, of course, to remain a legal country. In the debate, both in the Committee on Home Affairs and today in this debate, it was heard or understood as if the Legislative and Legal Service had nothing against this referendum or had given a positive opinion. That the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is admissible and that there are no legal obstacles to the invitation to tender. Mr Lisec also spoke about this tolerance today. But I would like to tell you, however, that the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, at the meeting of the parent committee, has given a clear opinion that this is a consultative referendum, where we are not talking about admissibility at all, because the admissibility after the constitution refers to a legislative referendum. It may not be a mistake to mention another opinion of the President of the Legislative and Legal Service, but I will quote him: "I am used in my long-standing practice to interpret our opinions in accordance with the political interests of this or that. I am also used to the same sentence being interpreted in different ways." I think it's illustrative, too. Interestingly, it seems to me that this legal framework has not been given due attention by the party, since the proposal already in the name of the proposal, i.e. the proposal for the accommodation of migrants, does not go hand in hand with the proposal for a referendum question, which concerns only the category of applicants for international protection. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to warn you something else, if I'm already in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was also very interesting and perhaps even crucial to this proposal. Their opinion or the opinion of the head of the legal service was that it was necessary to be politically responsible for what you put on the referendum. I don't think that was just said in three days. And I have to say that I really want this political responsibility to be maintained or established as you wish. In conclusion, I would like to say more about this performance here today in the National Assembly, about which something has already been said. I don't know if Mr Grims is here, but let me, in a way, express my indignation at this packing here. But it's this package that's been billed to our colleague Zorčič. We also talked about this conversation on television with Mr Grims and Mr Zorčič. I can only say that this explanation is entirely relevant and that it is foolish to abuse this performance in this way. I would say that with such a tasteless act one way or another, a person makes fun of himself. That is why it is probably true when said Comrade Matić that Mr Grims also has fewer listeners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the replica. Mr. Gorenak, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you. I have been mentioned and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on compliance with legal acts has been made clear. I would like to point out to the predecessor that we were reading to them yesterday the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court, how ideologically and politically you do not want to handle the matter, as the Constitutional Court said, and you have become very excited about it. And how many times in this term have you turned on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in a number of draft acts, everything has been fine. But when he just alerts us, there's a state problem and number one point. By asking the predecessor that if he has vats, sometimes he will look at a day or so ago, what is the legal responsibility, legal respect for the acts. Political responsibility, but I absolutely agree, will be judged by citizens and citizens. You can go to the referendum if you let him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Lilliana Kozlovich, for her Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u95	Allow me to respond to this procedurally first and kindly ask you to really warn your colleague Lisca, because this was not a replica. He was not misunderstood in anything, all that he said was the subject of discussion and was by no means a replica. So, please, fellows, let's stick to these things. Let me begin by saying what we have already learned today, the real refugee situation is relatively calm with us at this moment. However, none of the fellow Members, or even the Secretary of State, had been told that the refugees would no longer be and that the migrant wave would stop. On the contrary, we reiterate that we are aware that the matter will not immediately stop, that there is likely to be a continuity, and that the Secretary of State reiterates that the Government is closely monitoring the situation and is ready and, as the situation changes, will also start to change and step up the Government's actions. Again, I would like to reject the claim that migrants from Western Europe will be returned. On the Committee, the Secretary of State has already said that there is no such return, not at this time and not before. As far as I'm concerned, the situation here hasn't changed. I'm really asking you not to deceive people with certain claims that you have no evidence of. With regard to the quotas you so point out, and each time you give us again for the case of Austria. Austria is in a completely different situation than Slovenia. Austria has set an annual quota of 37 000 500 and receives around 700 asylum applications at weekly level. Besides, there are thousands of people who actually have no place to stay. And I cannot possibly agree with the fact that we can compare the situation of Slovenia and Austria. Austria has also failed to legislate these quotas and, despite not even legalising them, has already been warned twice by Europe that such quota setting is not appropriate and is contrary to international law. It is also contrary to international law to what you are proposing today. Under international conventions, every person has the right to a procedure, every person seeking asylum. For everyone, we must initiate this procedure, and everyone deserves individual treatment. Slovenia, as you know, has ratified the Geneva Convention in 1992 and so far, of course, we have adhered to it, and I see no reason why, at this point in time when there is no chaos and there are no extraordinary situations that you would like to show again and again, but at this point in time, we should just break it. What you are proposing is contrary to the Geneva Convention, to other international conventions, contrary to Article 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and also to our asylum law and to every asylum seeker should be treated individually. According to Comrade Grimes, there is no role to play in how many countries the applicant has legally or illegally travelled to our country and applied for asylum here. It has absolutely no role to play, because when it comes to our authorities, it is determined whether this international protection is justified and it is verified and whether it has already been requested elsewhere under the Dublin Regulation. However, this is certainly not, as the colleague puts it, criminally persecutive and I do not know what else has been said today. Comrade Gorenak, you say there is no reason why Slovenia could not do this. Of course he's not like he's not here. Why would she do that? The government, I said, responds appropriately all the time. And when you are talking about when you have already proposed such and different measures, of course you are, but measures must also be taken within the time frame, when appropriate. So if you take a measure six months before you should, it is probably not appropriate and it does not have the effect that such a measure would have if you took it when it is necessary. And I don't understand on what basis you think citizens and citizens will decide how many people there are, like a colleague, who said what they think, how many people we can help. Yes, on what basis will citizens and citizens decide? Even when we talk here about which number is right or wrong, we find that, of course, it is not so that we can just make up our minds and say a number. Are they going to surround them with their lucky number, or how? I mean, I really don't understand how you imagine that. As well as I don't understand how you imagine when this quota is met, we will say at the border – what? We don't take you, go back or I don't know. [[…]] I mean, it would be good if you could explain maybe the way you imagine doing this, it would be interesting to hear it, I think. I would also like to respond to this observation that my colleagues want to become constitutional judges. I'm not saying anything, maybe one of them really wants to, but some of you are acting like constitutional judges right now. Indeed, from your kind, the Commission on Petitions has for the last time claimed that certain content should be dealt with now that open proceedings are ongoing in the courts. Once the proceedings in the courts have been concluded, there will be nothing left to do. And now who is the one who wants to take on the role of judge? I'm going to finish because I think there's been a lot of material about these things already, and I really don't see any sense in re-demanding some of the stories you're telling here today. Perhaps I would only respond to the claim that we are not a social government and that we are no longer a social state. As you know, the social transfer line has increased in this budget and is now nearly a billion and a half. A billion and a half! I don't know if you can imagine how high this number is. The current data show that unemployment is declining, poverty is not increasing, GDP is rising, social exclusion is not increasing. For social transfers, I said, we're spending almost a billion and a half. [[advertising from the hall]] This government has increased [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u96	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u97	The number of beneficiaries for subsidies for lunches and lunches has increased children's allowances and cash social assistance, savings measures in the public sector are being released and so on. [[…]] That's it! I think that the Government of the Migration Crisis has been genuinely in charge since its inception, stepping up and adapting measures to the situation and responding. In my opinion, your initiative is contrary to legislation and international conventions, and it is also unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u99	I was mentioned. The question is quite clear and let yourself read it, fellow Servant, what is our proposal for a referendum question. I don't have electives and voters for fools, I think they can make up their minds. Because if they were stupid, then we'd have them on some other stupid opportunity, but I don't. I am aware that they know exactly what they are doing and what decisions they are making. Now there is something else that this proposal is unconstitutional and inconsistent with the Convention and so on. Your Honor, this is a consultative referendum where it is clear whether you believe or vote for and against if you are in favour of Slovenia taking so many and so many migrants. It is precisely said, but of course the data will be provided by the Ministry. That is the essence of this question and it is not unconstitutional. There's no law yet, but we have each other's marriage, and we have an unconstitutional state, and you continued it yesterday, and that's unconstitutional, you know. And you didn't think that Slovenian children were equal. On the one hand, on the other hand, poverty is falling, and on the other hand we give more for social transfers. Yeah, come on, you're ridiculous! Then why more if the situation is improving? Then we will be reducing the budget here probably because we are in a time of prosperity, because we feel it at every turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Get Dr. Dragan Matić ready, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Migration has always been and always will be. And the problems that are taking place within them were already recognized by the United Nations, which adopted the Geneva Convention in 1952 and laid the foundations of humanitarian law, how to deal with such a situation and what rights to be guaranteed to an individual, especially by a regulation adopted in 2003, when minimum standards have been established. Our nation is in a similar way after World War II, because I come from the area of Istria, where exactly the same situation as it is now. Our citizens, our people left, and then there were boundaries. Some went for political reasons, some entirely economic. I'm just reading in the local newspaper today Listening to the Unheard of Memories. So history then tells how a particular population, how a particular nation acts at a certain point. In fact, Europe has decided to respect human rights in this area. That is why it is so interesting, it may be an ugly expression, but people want to come to share the same as, of course, what they do not have in other areas. But the fact is that this Europe has also created a lot of corporations and a lot of industry to avoid taxes, which has resulted in us having in this world, as previously said, 2 billion people who are not consumers because they do not have a job and because they do not have money. And before that, it was said that we are actually talking about money today, so nothing else. The point is money. We who have money are afraid to lose it, afraid to share it with those who don't. These two billion people do not exist for us, and so do philosophers. But are we gonna get away with this? Climate change is happening and people are moving. I'm going back to the area I came from, Istria. Now we're planting olives in Kobarid. We're fighting drinking water in our area. Are we going to move in, too, and we're going to agree to close our doors? In this situation, each country reacted differently. After about a year, Hungary decided to close its borders. Germany has accepted everyone. It is interesting for Italy, and for years, it has had a migrant wave, and we hardly hear about it, and today we are talking about it, as is the case with good practice, because the integration that takes place in this country is happening with the help of local communities. So each individual is involved in this. And this is what is being proposed to all countries. And if we look at where Slovenia is. 334 thousand asylum seekers were admitted to Europe, and 50 were accepted by Slovenia. The Czech Republic, mentioned as an example of not accepting or making recommendations, accepted them more than Slovenia, 71. It is logical that the Government acted in the interest of our citizens and decided, at a certain point in time, when the matter became uncontrollable, as it had decided. We are not proud to have set up a wire, but at a certain point it was absolutely necessary. I also do not understand that, as an example or that somehow the Visegradian countries, which were once alone in a dictatorship, today behave as they do, I do not understand, and we promote this as good and positive. The right way is by controlling people's migration. A number of European Union countries have been involved in this. This is also the objective of the European Union, because migration will not stop. Even if it stopped at the Macedonian-Greek border, new routes are already being created through Hungary and, above all, through Italy. A huge number of people have gathered in Libya who want to come to Europe. And Austria, we know he's already trying to shut Brenner down, through which he's supposed to have access to Austria. But the solution is in this controlled relocation. Mechanisms must be put in place as soon as possible and these people must be helped. So not only to solve the problem in Europe, but also in the Middle East and where these hotspots are. As soon as possible, as Europe says, it is necessary to establish a Coast Guard and to exchange the necessary information, to establish a central system for the reception of asylum applications and to set a quota for each country and, of course, to rescue the hotspots. What is most important, however, is to redefine the Dublin Regulation in order to establish responsibility and solidarity between all the countries of the European Union. And of course, among those who came, criminals, as previously said, are those who wanted Europe badly. To this end, Europol has also infiltrated individuals to identify all these people, who are dangerous, who come with those wrong intentions, in order, of course, to protect Europe. And these are the right steps to take. We cannot fight migration and we must not fight it, but we must manage it properly. And not building walls, building bridges. The commitment was to admit 160,000 people to Europe or to move them and 22 thousand 500 people from third countries. Slovenia has committed itself to adopting 576. But as far as Slovenia is concerned, today I heard about ideologies. Our citizens don't want an extreme left or an extreme right ideology, they don't agree. And that's what our government follows. Common sense. Because ideologies, people don't have them in them, we create them, we create them to maintain our own power and our own comfort, and therefore we often abuse people. In fact, the Del poll has shown that this proposal for a consultative referendum is largely against him. People have shown that they are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Mr Uroš Prikl, Mr Jože Tanko, is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you, Madam President. After hearing from the SDS about the seizures of medical devices and how someone ate pizza in the inn and then there were incredible complications, let's focus on what's actually the topic. Colleagues from the SDS would like the people to decide on the referendum issue or to clarify whether it is for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt legislation stipulating that the annual number of applicants for international protection does not exceed the number of applications for international protection in 2015. According to homework, if I could simplify things a little bit, there'd be a number in the marriage, say, 1,000 of these would have been accepted, but if you'd come 1001 to the border, you'd have told him, you know what else, I don't know, they burned down your house, they killed half your family, you were really threatened, but since we have this law, we're not even going to treat you. Otherwise, the Geneva Convention applies, internal EU legislation applies, but we voted in the referendum and you go back to where you came from. This is just the way citizens and citizens decided to do it at the referendum. I think that, of course, colleagues in the SDS do not take this marriage proposal seriously. Because they are not political analphabetes, I think they themselves know that complete nonsense is what they are proposing. Because if we were to think seriously, then we would give this proposal at least a draft of the law to see what they think in particular – and this was also a comment by the Legal and Legislative Service – if they had a draft before them, they could say about it, and so they have one sentence that they put across. And if we were serious, we would also tell you where there is a country that has such a law. What example illustrates where this country exists? They were talking about the Visegrad Four. Does any of these four countries have such a law to which they are referring? To prescribe a quota in the law and then to refuse treatment under the Geneva Convention because his life is in danger. Where this country is, gentlemen of the SDS, let me tell you, and you don't even have to be from the EU, it can be from any part of the planet. What are you referring to? What example do you have before you? I certainly think that this is really about some unwarranted gathering of political points, to some debate that wants to encourage fear among our citizens, to say that it is to be the victims of some wild migrants who will not respect their culture and their property. We have repeatedly pointed out in the debate that a comprehensive response to the refugee crisis is possible only within the EU. Now here to defend the principle that violations of conventions and EU legislation are what should be the right way and that we can do so, and then what if we violate conventions, what if we violate all directives and the Dublin regulation See, this debate is, in my opinion, completely unrealistic and this initiative is also unrealistic and today all these hours that have been spent in this sense, in my opinion, completely lost. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Dr Matej T. Vatovec, followed by Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u105	President, thank you very much for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The definition first. A fugitive is a person who flees or flees from danger or unpleasantness. Migrants are persons or persons who permanently or temporarily change their residence, especially for economic reasons. To renew the definition of SSKJ, what we are going to talk about or what we are going to talk about. It seems sad to me that every topic, every law, every proposal we speak of in the National Assembly, becomes a first-class ideological theme, we ideologically refer to it, and we also deal with it through this dioptriate. And I think we're probably going to talk about the refugees or there's a problem. The dark fugitives can't be some kind of ideological theme. I think it doesn't matter whether we're left-handed or right-handed, whether we're liberally oriented or going to church, whether we're from Maribor or we're from Ljubljana. This, of course, cannot be a topic that most of us probably have the same attitude, the same valence that only people in distress, and these people are clearly in distress, of course we need to help and I believe that we all feel the same way at the final stage. [[...]] But the paths are very strange, leading to this goal. On this occasion, I do not want to, and I do not want, it is not my intention, to devalue, even less, the Institute of Referendum. This is, of course, in some definition the direct will of people, the direct possibility of not only codecision, but decision. However, I do not think that for every question, but for every solution, the Institute of Referendum is the most appropriate. I am sure that we are convinced in Desus that the Institute of Referendum for the Resolution of Migrants and Refugees is not a suitable way. Migrants or the migrant crisis, as we like to refer to it, are not the problem of Slovenia. It's a broader problem. It's not the whole of Europe either, but it's the whole world's problem. But it is true that Europe is the most affected here, of course, because the countries of Central and Northern Europe are the final destinations to which all those people who are fleeing are trying to escape the troubles and dangers. The fact is that Europe has been and is probably still not ready for such a big problem, and that is bad. And that's bad. The fact is, in a given situation, we should have a different kind of confrontation, talk about it and talk about it before the first fugitive was on the way. I would also expect here from countries not in Europe, including the United States of America, if you want to engage proactively in solving this global problem, which I can, I fear will, but I want to do the opposite, escalate even more. Of course, it is necessary to save not on a daily basis and deal with people on the way, to provide them with supplies, to provide them with normal human conditions on this path to their final destination, but it seems essential to me that we are also dealing with the extinguishing of the hotspots at the same time, that this problem has not arisen on the way from the Greek islands to Stockholm or Berlin, but that the matter has arisen on the ground of the Middle East, because obviously large actors, great actors, great powers or great powers do not see the interest in the issue of getting on their toes or putting out the flames, tourist fires and allowing those people who do not run away from these areas because they want some adventures, risky adventures across Europe, but run because they simply cannot live there because they are at risk. These people, I'm sure they want to go back, they want to live there. I do not think it is disputed that we help people to have a decent life or at least this transitional period until the conditions for life are met where they come from, that we should be as solidarity, humane and humane as possible. As it is said, I am convinced that the Institute of the Referendum is not the right path to solve such problems, even with the law, as far as I am aware and as far as it has been said, no one in the world is solving this issue, the issue of some of the upper limits of asylum seekers. The neighbouring Austria, which in some way introduces some quotas, some of the upper limits of those people who are willing to accept each other, has already been warned that this is not the right way. It is the right path for Europe to be aware of this problem and to begin to solve it with patience, culturally of course, culturally and in particular humanely. Cooperation and a sincere desire to regulate the situation, especially the desire to protect, to preserve all human rights, all these people, I think it must be the common motto of all of us. All of us, who are directly or indirectly connected to such a problem. It is necessary to be aware and to have this in mind that we can be refugees today, tomorrow we, you, all together and many in the history of mankind were refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Maybe for starters, one of my observations. On behalf of the proposer, my colleague Grimes presented the matter, and at the time I was going to react procedurally, but I changed my mind, and I said that I would be able to say this in my debate as well. Even though I don't have a problem with it and I don't go left or right, but more in the middle, I kind of think that those words are left-handed and transitional left, that it's a little bit cynical. And in the future, I would ask my colleague Grims to try to avoid it, a little less from the left-hand side that someone is talking about the right political gender. I remember when we were talking about some things, and extremists were said to be "right extremism," you reacted very badly. It's nothing wrong, you've reacted, but then let's try to bring this respect to each other somehow. Now very little is involved in this issue, which we are talking about very much in the National Assembly. It is right to speak, for this is, in some ways, the problem that we are facing last year, this year. The question is, shall we not meet again in the future? The topic on the agenda today is related to some things related to people's decision-making, in one form of decision-making, that is directly in the elections. You are proposing a referendum, a consultative referendum, which our constitution does not specifically highlight or know. If we are talking about this proposal, which you are proposing to somehow entrust the Government and the National Assembly at the referendum, that in 2016 it can only have so many applications for asylum as in 2015. That would mean about 277 applications or applications. If, of course, I have good or accurate information. As I have already said, Article 44 of the Constitution to which you refer does not state in what form it is actually decided or written in what form it is decided. It is possible to decide on a general social issue on the basis of the representatives of the people, saying that we as Members decide on certain matters, or directly at the legislative referendum. With regard to the view that Slovenia could become a pocket, there has been a lot of talk, talk and talk about it. This may not be the right time to talk about it at this point, but it can happen in the future. There has been no return of migrants from Western Europe to Slovenia since March. So it's actually in some way a bone that is also eaten by you. Even if we're talking about finance, I'd like to draw attention to some things. Today I received a call from a lady from Gorenjska who told me that she was a pensioner and asked me if I could call her back from the phone, because the costs of the phone are high and she will not have enough resources for a normal life. This is a question that we need to think about. We must also be correct when presenting ourselves in public, as far as refugees cost us. According to the data I have and are accurate, the daily care for the fugitive amounts to 12.26 euros and the refugee receives 18 euros of monthly allowance. And when we add up the amounts, we just get to a number. These refugees would probably have made it easier for less money to provide for themselves if they had lived the way they did, as colleagues Grims suggested, in our apartments, but not only in ours, even in your apartments, then probably this survival would have been cheaper than in the case of the country taking care of it. And if you weren't too happy to laugh sweetly at me, I'd end up at this point. However, I would say what I always say when I have this opportunity, it is true that first security is for citizens and citizens, but in no case should we forget that we are also people and that this security sense does not prevail, but we must also be socially sensitive to those people – others are among them – and we must take care of them in a dignified way. Comrade Prikl earlier said that many had already been a fugitive and might still be. Of course, we do not want you or all of us to be among them, respected colleagues on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Look, with all due respect, but you're saying it bothers you if the term "leftist" is used, I used it in connection with those demonstrations at Kotnikova, and maybe in the debate again, because it was just a matter of separation. There were double demonstrations, one on the left, one on the right. Similarly, if I describe the situation in this House, it is difficult to describe this as left-wing and right-handed, at least according to some European standards; we can discuss this another time. Now you're saying it hurts. You know, this is a little awkward. I personally note that several times in this debate it has been said that the debates of the SDS are, I quote, "to spread hatred, to fascistize society with hate speech". You say it hurts to use that term. Look, we put all these interesting double criteria in the right light if we look at yesterday's vote. Yesterday, however, with exactly your common voices of all of you whom I have numbered, someone has been elected to the Council of RTV Slovenia, who uses the term "toads" for women, and for all of his faithful fellow citizens "clerofashists" and "clerothalibans", and the formulations as "we will kill them and so on" and if there is any hate speech, ladies and gentlemen, that is it. That's what you say, it's about being sensitive in words, chasing hate speech, you're quick to resent when it comes to actions, and you're not just supporting it, you're even rewarding it. This is also a serious problem in the light of what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Comrade Grimes, you've probably noticed that never a word like that comes out of my mouth. And with that, I kind of have clear concepts. I said I respect both the left and the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u112	What's your procedural proposal? It was an abuse. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u113	Well, one sentence. I have talked about it, and I hope that every citizen, once a citizen, will accept it as the only criterion. There are actions in politics. The words, unfortunately, do not apply in Slovenian politics. And the act, in particular yesterday, was that you chose such a man in the world of RTV Slovenia. And the SMC also said that it was — what was it about? Added value for a new wind or something. That's great. Like a coalition in practice. The actions speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I've got plenty of time left, and that's good. Some before me talked about olives, as you probably heard about climate change, water shortages in Istria and so on, it is said that I am allowed everything, but I will not do so. I'm going from the end. Mr. Jurša, look, you've done well with the subject. We're back in finance, and you said 12.56 euros, and that pocket is 18 euros, and so on. Look, let's turn this situation around now. In a little while, you will retire, and if the person who will write your pension decision will charge you, say, 35 Euros of pension, on that side of the register at the ZPIZ. That's what your math looks like. [[advertising from the hall]] That's what your math looks like. Let's go in one order. You were talking about day care. Yes, 12.50 euros. It's about people who are in an asylum home. This is about you, not about those you smuggled through Slovenia to Austria, we're not talking about those. So it's about those in the asylum home. 12.50 euros has already been said by everyone, even the interior ministry has said so. It's food, and that toothpaste, and that pyjamas, if you want, and that stuff. Otherwise, the monthly care of the asylum seeker is based on the calculations of the Finance Minister, and I have now completed data from those I had at the time, a thousand and 360 euros, that's what the Finance Ministry said for a month, with certain costs not included and could not be calculated. It's about wages, it's about heating up, it's about translating, and so on, all these procedures that are going on there because the country is paying for everything. The latest reply from the finance minister, which I received a few days ago, counted those additional costs now, and I can tell you and the public that we were wrong when we said that a thousand 500 euros per month is on the asylum seeker, but it is significantly more than that. In fact, data for translators and all those social workers and all those who care for them there are now added, in addition to the data we have already had. Well, now we're there. So, 12,50 Euros – that's what? You pensioners can paint a little bit, that's how you paint them. Not 12,50, you must say that at least the official data of the Ministry of Finance is 360 and so many euros a month. And you're still happy to push these buttons through the budget, and through a lot of other things that give all that money. They give it to someone, but now it is necessary to be honest in this – Mr Prikl, he explained nicely there from the dictionary what an asylum seeker is, or what a migrant is, what a refugee is. Thank you, wonderful. But, my dears, how many refugees do we have, how many do we have? Very little, you'll say. 350 and so many of them are there daily, but everything else needs to be made very clear. Let me be very clear. And this applies in any case not only to Slovenia, but to Europe. Look, the official data from the Ministry of the Interior on those who crossed our border are relatively clear: 68% of men between 18 and 38 years of age. However, if you add further information on how many of these people were in other situations, such as during the crisis in Bosnia, during the war in Bosnia and so on, the situation is, of course, quite clear and quite different. What's this all about? We had women there and children over 60 years old. The rest stayed at home and created a country. What's coming to Europe now is not that. That's not it. This Europe -- now I can't just say about us, about our government and so on, about the question of Europe -- has adopted, say, Germany a million people last year and a little over, young men aged 18 to 38. Who's on the Greek border now? There's a barbed wire waiting outside the Macedonian border, and now you have kids, old moms, and really those poor people. Now the poor send this Europe back to Turkey, holding back, I don't know, 800 grand for weapons of capable younger men. She kept you here. Thank you very much for such solidarity. Thank you very much for such solidarity. I would like to go on a little further through the predecessors who appeared before me, and I must remind you, for example, Mr Ferruga spoke well of Cerara's initiative to close the border of Macedonia-Greece. No, that's not true, that's Janša's initiative, and Cerar just made a plagiarism and sold it in Brussels. Yeah, it's plagiarism. And don't talk about the initiative of Prime Minister Cerar and so on and so forth. That's not true. Mrs Koleša also spoke, and of course Mrs Slug about these matters, but sometimes I have little trouble, especially with Mrs Slug, someone said long ago or wrote “Only the shoes belong to Kopitar!” But look, I never come forward in this National Assembly when we have a budget theme, when we have tight economic themes and so on, because I know very little about it. I don't know much about that. And I'd rather be quiet so I don't smile. But, look, “Slovenia has responded appropriately”. Bravo, you can paint someone else with this, not those we know. Slovenia did not respond adequately. In addition to Greece, Slovenia is the only country in the European Union that has committed mass violations of legislation and suspended Schengen. Moreover, Slovenia has even illegally smuggled people across the border, the official institutions of this country. Yeah, what else was it? If you load them up in Dobova and drop them off in Shentyl. That's it. And she says, "She responded appropriately." Come in. Mrs. Kolesha is talking about the persecutors. Yeah, I don't know if these people are being chased. Yeah, there's a few of them in there, too, I'm sure. But a large percentage, more than 80% of them are not, but they are economic migrants. We can't say that most of them are persecuted because that's not true. Come in. She talked about the Schengen Code — then the Secretary of State, if she said so — making it possible for us to do what we did. Thus, the Schengen Code allows you to upload them without documents on a train in Dobova and take them to Austria. I don't know that. Maybe Mrs. Koleša heard this at a coffee shop in Kentucky. That's possible. Or somewhere else. Given that I did the internal minister's duties for a year and something, I probably know something about it. Schengen legislation does not allow this. It doesn't allow it. And there's something else that we need to know that we don't even know who these people are because they didn't have documents. And we took them to Austria at the state expense. This needs to be very clear. She went on to talk about how the Law-Legal Service responded to these matters. The Legal and Legislative Service has said nothing against the Consultative Referendum. She didn't say anything about it. It is true that the representative of the committee then said: “It would be more important if the referendum were successful and the law was reached. More important questions would be raised when such a law was adopted." That's what he said. As for the referendum itself, he did not say anything or give the department a negative opinion that we were in the clear. You know, it's pretty embarrassing, because then you get Mrs. Kolesh on a sentence like, "You have to respect the rule of law." Ooh, that's bad. That's terrible. Or by taking the mandate of a lawfully elected Member? Which is what she did because she pressed for. And all of you, as far as I know you. I don't know if anyone was against it. Well, respect is legal truth. Yeah, of course you have to respect him, but that's true for everyone. Not by taking a mandate, like, not like yesterday. The law says - what? That 16 individuals in the RTV Program Council come through the National Assembly of Civil Society. It's a beautiful civil society. Desus you gave one – this is civil society; SD two – also civil society; not to mention what Mr Grims said. This is civil society. That is to say, you passed the law yesterday because you put in politicians and not representatives of civil society. Yes, but we have to respect the rule of law. Let's respect him! Mrs Slug, who understands these internal matters, I may believe that he understands something else, but it is not clear that I will not say that he has no idea. There's no coming back from the EU. That's what I think someone else has been talking about since you. If you respect the rule of law, you need to know something, it is true that there is no coming back directly from Austria, at least that is what official data show, but if you respect the rule of law, you will have to take all those who have disappeared from the asylum home and its exposures back because this requires a European legal order. But we do know that each week he wipes them off — how many? I don't know, one half bus or what, I don't know. In fact, if Slovenia makes a role here in Slovenia, if Slovenia is the first country to accept this role, but has left the country and went somewhere else, we will get it back, unless you say that you will not respect the rule of law, and that is all that needs to be addressed now. Will you or will you not respect the rule of law? And it is true that some increased number of people are still coming into the country, of course on the green border, not in the way that they came months ago, it is true. But we also treat these people according to the law as we should. It means they accept an application for international protection and then they go to an asylum. But know, a lot of them leave home and move on. And they'll come back to you. That's the rule of law. Now quotas, because, of course, the referendum issue is also related to some type of quota. Someone said, yes, Mrs. Slug said that there was no quota anywhere, and Mr. Matić. What country has adopted such a law? Yeah, I don't know if anyone took him in. But I do know something else, and the smart governments that set this up with some of the state's legal acts, I don't know what regulations I know. And Austria said, 37 thousand 500, over. It's over. What did the Hungarians say? That they'd make a referendum that they didn't want any. The Poles know that they have accepted from Ukraine with Hungary, according to some data, even a million people, and that is not of interest in Europe, but at least in Brussels. This item of the agenda should not have to have any law, nor should it be necessary for the Government to adopt any wise decision and say we will take so many of them and so much of the end. So others have restricted things, too. Austrians, as we said, at 37 thousand 500. And the endings. And then it is entirely irrelevant what Mr Matić says, yes, but when 37 thousand 501 is done, he will be the poorest. Yes, that's what Europe has already done. She accepted the works of capable people, and the poor are waiting down at the Greek border with Macedonia. That's a nice face for Europe. Not for me. So, the quotas are accepted in a row, but we do have a government that is unable to do so. A government that operates according to my judgment against people. Yeah, what else? Some of them will now be accepted by quotas, and we will now accept those who will come back for the return under the Dublin Regulation. How many more will come, but it's a terrible question. Probably a lot more. The fundamental question is this: What will happen when the Macedonian border breaks? What's gonna happen? And if she gives in, we'll have the same scenes we've already had. And of course that famous pocket can come, of course it can come, because the Austrians will be serious, they will, or they will, seriously close the border because I don't. But you're already bragging about how you're gonna hunt those rabbit wires. Yeah, well, that's different. Many have spoken of the issue as being contrary to the Geneva Convention and so on and so forth. The referendum has nothing to do with the Geneva Convention. And don't sell salad, don't say you have gold because it's not true. And Mrs Slug speaks about how our proposal is contrary to the Constitution, the Convention and European regulations. Our proposal is called a referendum. What does this have to do with the convention? Nothing. Nothing. But the law that follows the referendum is another story. It's a different story. It's just that this marriage isn't on the table right now. Mrs Kozlovičova, you have also talked about comparisons with World War II. You know what I should tell you? These comparisons are a little bit like that. The vast majority of people then went because they were persecuted. And where did she go? She went to the Christian world. Let's just make a deal. Because that's what we have to deal with. Who's coming to us? And why don't these people go into their Muslim world. Because you have a lot richer countries than Slovenia, say. That's not where they're going. They're not even ready to take home, as they say, a rifle in their hands, but to make a country and democracy and so on. They're not ready for that either. And that's why such an attitude, a general attitude towards all this is not acceptable to me. He's not acceptable. A little while ago, I was looking here at our Commissioner, who is going to Iran. Yeah, what, with the route on your head. Maybe I should put something else on my head. Why is that? Why is it that when the Turkish president comes to us, his wife doesn't walk with a short wing, let's say, but she walks as dressed as she goes home? Why do we have to adapt now? The European Commissioner for Foreign Affairs went to Iran, too, I think, days ago, with that black blanket on her head. Why do we have to adapt to them? There's no reason for that. He who is poor who needs protection will act as we do because he is our guest, not his. And there is no reason for us to adapt to them or to adapt to them in this way. I don't know if anyone can explain to me why we should go to Tehran with that black blanket. Why is that? Why? You know, these things don't go together. And as far as our proposal for a referendum is concerned. This is what we are talking about today, this is the agenda item. Like I said, it wouldn't be necessary if we had a capable, operational, normal government. We don't have that kind of government. We just don't have it. And all the talking that we've responded to and so on and so forth doesn't drink water. There is much more to say in this regard. As I said, of course, the agenda item is the Consultative Referendum. That's what we decide and nothing else. Covering up some reality because reality, the fact is that it is not only Slovenia from this point of view that the problem is a European problem in this respect. Hiding from reality. The reality of the numbers is what I said before. The vast majority of people who actually have no reason to be pure economic migrants and there is no reason for Europe to accept them. But he doesn't accept the ones that we should. The reality is that so within the European Union, terrible crimes are taking place across countries, if you want, and the media are silent, even German, as you saw New Year's Eve in Cologne, only the fifth day after that came the matter on the day. We have nothing to say about this either, although some of the data sent by the Ministry of Internal Affairs do speak of seven crimes and I do not know how many offences have occurred in the territory of Slovenia. But it's also a reality. And this reality must be accepted as it is, and nothing else. And there's no reason to hide this reality in any way. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which they will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mr. Boštjan Šefic, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you allow me for a short time some additional explanations or answers to questions or additional explanations. But first, I'd like to say the following. What I have presented as the Government's position here today is a fundamental problem that we do not really know exactly what the applicants are or what we would actually decide. And this is a key issue, as is today's topic, despite the fact that the debate is extremely broad. Whether it is the so-called quotas for limiting people, migrants who might eventually enter the Republic of Slovenia in the future, whether it is an attempt to limit the number of illegal migrants, whether it is a question of limiting the number of applicants for international protection, whether it is a limitation of the number of granted status, i.e. international protection or subsidiary or refugee status, or whether it is a restriction on the permanent relocation of people with international protection from third countries or a restriction on relocation. These are the key things. When we define this, of course, we can also talk more about these issues more substantively. And second, of course, here are the legal frameworks. And these legal frameworks are important. One, of course, is our legislation, from the Constitution, the Law on International Protection, of course also the international legal order and, of course, the international obligations that we have accepted, and which you have discussed, we have also discussed in the National Assembly. Last July, we agreed to take over a number of people from the Member States of the European Union and move them, move them to the Republic of Slovenia, where they will continue the process of international protection and receive it or not. These are, I think, the key issues where we should clear up that, as we say, we know what we would possibly be deciding on in this referendum. The odds are even. There was much to be said about this, I think that we also discussed this in the Committee on Internal Affairs and Public Administration. You know that when we talk about international protection and everyone has the right to a proceeding, it is said that only those who fulfil the conditions can obtain protection without being protected. Of course, there is a difference between the quotas we had and which we have also regulated in the previous migration wave. However, it seems important to me at this point to point out that there are certain mechanisms within the European Union that have not worked properly because of these spontaneous migrations. I am talking, of course, about the relocation and permanent relocation, which we are now trying to revive and bring the system back to work as it needs to. Now, perhaps in a row, Mr Grims' Member mentioned 11 offers, I must say that this is an old information. The Ministry of Public Administration said this morning, when we had a meeting, that so far there are in fact 41 offers, various individuals offering their capacities, smaller, larger, even large buildings and so on. Of course, we will see in this what is appropriate, what can be used. Of course, there will be other criteria to be followed. I must also say that some organisations offer their capacities and want to participate in this, including in the project of permanent relocation from third countries, which I mentioned earlier. That much is possible. Of course, this is an open matter and we expect there to be another such proposal in the coming period. Ambassador Gorenak will say, of course, the Chief has to say this because he is a representative of the Government, but I have to stress here again and very clearly point out that with regard to these illegalities and illegal implementation and so on, that this does not hold up and that, of course, there are fundamentals. We have also explained them several times before, and in the end, I have highlighted this Article 5 of the Schengen Code in particular. However, I must also say that the Schengen has worked, and of course, the movement of people and capital has also been all that the Schengen is actually meant to – to ensure cross-border security and so on – to prevent international organised crime, arms smuggling, raw materials and the prevention of international terrorism. Of course, we have been following and taking measures at this time, which we have also been talking about. And I must say that, of course, colleagues in other countries have also acknowledged this and have repeatedly taught us that Slovenia has done well in these extremely difficult circumstances. However, I agree with everyone you have discussed today and, of course, migration is and will be that the migration crisis exists and will continue to exist in the next period. We are not just talking about Greece, we are not just talking about Turkey. We need to know that we have to revive this so-called Mediterranean path from North Africa to Italy. Of course, they also experience a certain increase there. I have recently had interviews with representatives of the Republic of Italy, who have also pointed out these matters, and it is therefore so important that we face this in an organised, thoughtful way. In this context, all the measures taken by the European Union are also at this moment, from the common border guard to the strengthening of the Schengen measures and so on. All of this is in the direction of better management of the situation and of course also of the so-called permanent mechanism, which we have already discussed very thoroughly in this national assembly and I am very sure that we will continue to do so. Of course, the Republic of Slovenia and the Government will, of course, continue all the competent ministries, I will say, monitor this situation both in the Republic of Macedonia. I must say that Macedonia is particularly important at this time, there is no denying it here, and so we are working very intensively with colleagues from the Republic of Macedonia. We also have our officers there to help in different segments. The same applies to Greece. We have some of our own officers, civilian experts there, and we've also sent help that we can do right now. I mean, of course, we're aware of all this and we're doing it right. That's one side. The second side, however, is our preparations for potentially unpredictable situations that could, of course, arise and cannot be ruled out. It is therefore also important that we also integrate systemic solutions into all these systems, and of course I think those who will systematically address the issue of migration not only from a legislative point of view, but also from an organisational point of view. In this context we also cooperate with the countries of the Visegra Four. This has also been said in this National Assembly, and I must say that all the countries of the Visegra Four except, as I have already pointed out, Hungary, which has decided to refer to the referendum, is also participating in the system of relocations and resettlement. The Czech Republic, for example, has already done this. True, they must have had some problems. This moment is only in the stage of Poland, so it has ensured that it will cooperate, but it is also in the stage that there is no person to whom this relocation would be made. Whether the government has handled the situation well or poorly, we have talked about it immensely. I think that under the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Government we have always argued well enough, but, of course, the results show that we have done well with this situation. We as the Republic of Slovenia practically had no migrants, of course we are talking about migrants who would remain in the Republic of Slovenia. I think today we have 322 applicants for international protection. We have 35 people in the foreign center. By the way, yes, those who have been in the process or have been granted status have left the country, of course they will be able to be returned, yes, of course everyone else will not. Here, too, the Government's action is very clear and this is also within the framework of, I will say, the Member States of the European Union are well-known and we are also applying this. This moment is the fact that Slovenia actually has the best situation or is as safe as it is by number, by all elements. That's a fact. We've been since 1. This year, there were 176 illegal crossings. By comparison, Hungary has over 200 per day, over the wire, of course, on the Hungarian-Serbian border. We monitor this every day and there are a lot of them, which is why the Republic of Austria also has major problems. These are the facts. And of course, Hungary sees things a little differently than any other country. And once again, I must make it very clear that, of course, Slovenia has been in control of this last migration situation all along, and of course this is also an absolute goal for the next period. The fact that the Government is working against the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, I am already in this National Assembly, because it has been explicitly said that I have also acted against the Republic of Slovenia, the interests of citizens, as well as again today, of course, I deny, and I hope to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always acted in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and that I have also achieved these goals and those results that I mentioned earlier. The Slovenian police have also done a great job, of course in cooperation with colleagues from the Slovenian Armed Forces, that is what needs to be said. After all, there would not be so few illegal crossings, nor would such security be guaranteed as it was. And as has already been said, even though we have smaller resources than some other countries have, of course we also have fewer illegal migrations. However, we have in all of this very carefully worked out procedures, which are also taken into account in the recognition of international protection. We deal with each case on a case-by-case basis and therefore there are also relatively few statuses acquired, because we are precise, because we are consistently taking into account what is in the law and what is our obligation. As far as costs are concerned, we need to be very clear about what costs we are talking about, whether we are talking about relocation costs, whether we are talking about migration costs, i.e. this migration flow, whether we are talking about the costs of applicants or those who are then granted international protection status. To avoid any dilemma – as far as the relocation is concerned, we will be in the five years after the current calculations, of course, it will be possible to vary that you will not get me by word of mouth, and the cost for these numbers, which we now have and for which Slovenia is linked, is EUR 8 million. Of this, 3.4 million euros will be obtained through the so-called principal, while at the resettle, it is said in the permanent transfer for those 20 for which we have committed ourselves, we get 10,000 euros for each person. As far as the current costs of these ongoing migrations have been concerned. Last data on day 15. 4.; all the costs of providing the police, the military, what we have, including protecting the Schengen border and so on, are €41.7 million. I must say that, of course, both the Ministry and the Government were not passive in all these matters, both in the security field and of course in the political field, and, of course, because of this, some of the initiatives that we were taking were not just one initiative, there was some other in between, of course, an appropriate result and, of course, this also normalised matters. We are not now taking on the glory of anyone, but the fact is that, together with the other Member States of the European Union, we have managed to get things under control and to normalise them right now. However, of course I agree not to resent me, I did not write down who pointed out that the problem of origin should be solved. Here, of course, there is still a way to agree, and also in the many discussions that we have with colleagues from other countries, we are united that, of course, we now need to concentrate where problems arise and maximize our involvement in this, including with investments, also by being able to make certain people, but we are talking in particular about that part of migrants or migration not only economic but also so-called climate and so on, that people can live there in their home countries in their home environment. At the same time, we must also, of course, solve the problems that arise to us in our own backyard, if I may put it that way. Of course we can't. The second part of the measures must also go in this direction. I have already mentioned that a person, even if he comes illegally to the Republic of Slovenia, has the right of procedure, of course if he asks for international protection. This is our obligation to respect. Of course, then, the question is what is the decision, which I have been talking about a little while ago. There's only one last thing. The talk was about sowing fear. I think that, of course, all of us are definitely concerned about the situation we are facing. That's logical, and that's normal. Of course, we must also admit, and we must also say that there was some sowing of fear. Just two cases, because you've all been talking about cases when the journalists called me and said, so there's information coming out: Are you migrants actually staying in the Uranium Urinian top? No comment. Or, it was also information on social networks that 4 thousand migrants were coming to some city – at the time we didn't have so many at the daily level and when we proved they didn't get there, they said, of course, because you have hidden trenches under the ground on that complex. In short, I mean, it wasn't that small. And of course, fear exists among people who do not know the situation. And it's sowing fear and it's not good and it's more than wrong if I'm very fond of that expression. Only at the end of what Ambassador Gorenak pointed out were crimes, crimes. Yes, we have published daily all the offences that have taken place in this migration situation, but I must say, they were crimes and offences committed within either housing or reception centres and exclusively among migrants. To date, at least according to my latest information, there has been no excess, incident, crime in relation to migrants-residents and residents of Slovenia, and this was one of those key tasks for us and the security authorities to prevent any such situation that would endanger the safety of our inhabitants and residents. And we were successful at that. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Now there are only a few answers to the implementation of the Secretary of State. Earlier, it was said that it was not clear exactly why this question should go or what the consultative referendum should be about. See, on page 3 of this proposal it is clearly written, "the purpose of the consultation referendum is therefore to vote and electorate on the highest number of applicants for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia in the referendum." So, this is about applicants for international protection. Previously, it has also been said about financial resources that they are different because we are talking about asylum seekers once, and we are talking about those who get status. Of course, we are also talking about those who have only travelled through Slovenia and had meals taken care of, for free transportation, we already have those who have received asylum, and we have migrants, but they all cost. Well, at the end of the day, we could say one common number. You don't have to divide those numbers in any way. It's important how much it costs us. I agree with what you said about misinformation being a real problem in times like this. You know, the problem is also because the data is sketchy. We've had quite a few meetings in the National Assembly, we've had some meetings on the committees that deal with this, but we haven't always gotten concrete data. Remember the information or questions about where the so-called accommodation centers will be. They did not receive this and, of course, each one of you had virtually had concerns or some fears, asked questions, and never received an answer. So it's just that sometimes you have to get a little bit of ash and just know that you're also guilty of it. I'm not saying you've been on TV a lot, you've just been doing reports, but you know some of those specific things, which at that moment were of interest to citizens, what's going to happen in their environment, and they didn't always get it. Then I believe there are some really strange questions or stories. However, in order for journalists to have any special contributions on migrants, I even argue that this was very little, that there was very little about what was happening in Slovenia, that there was very little or nothing to hear about what happened when they first returned from Austria, but perhaps this amendment would have been adopted if they had talked more about how much trouble the Slovenian police had had to bring them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u121	Just for a little while. Secretary of State, there you mentioned Article 5 of the Code, and you made the impression that you gave exactly SMC to enable the code to do what happened. And I'm saying the code doesn't allow that. And this is where we need to clear up. The situation is perfectly clear, nowhere is it specified that you can put people in the Age on a train, preferably without documents, and take them to Šentilj. I don't know that definition. And here I have to tell you that you're wrong here, because you know that. As for what the Government is doing, I understand that, given that you are a representative of this government, that you cannot brand your own government. Maybe you'll get it in some book sometime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u123	It was a very interesting debate, but we should actually start somewhere else. We should begin with what a Member of the SD, Mr German, said about whether Europe would be based on or not a Christian tradition, across from that seat a few weeks ago. Today, about Europe being threatened, not just by individuals, there are today official statements by European institutions, including their leaders, specifically the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Parliament and so on and so on. In short, people realize it's a case of fate that's one-way. If Europe is fully Islamised, then it will no longer be Europe, it will be something completely different than it has been in the past. And since it is an extremely important historic decision that determines the fate of Europe and each of its countries, it is only appropriate to allow people to make this statement at the referendum. That is why the SDS proposed a referendum, where there was now a bunch of gibberish about what was really going on. It is the fact that people, because we do not know otherwise in our order now, may be a consultative referendum, but with a clear message they say how many such procedures should be carried out within a year. And the question depends on how clear this message is. We have been trying to form a question that has already been essentially a compromise, in the hope that we will eventually form it together by making it clear, unequivocal and that it will give this message to everyone in an understandable way. Unfortunately, obviously, there is no trace of any search for this kind of consensus. We listen to stories about how everything was controlled, how everything was running and how there were no problems at all. We can only be happy that those papers that the Government has so joyfully shared to every migrant who has come across the border have been thrown away by most. Because it would be a very good excuse for target countries to give us all those who would wave this paper back and say, you have started the process, you have a formal one, and now you keep doing it yourself. But it hasn't been said that someone doesn't come up with an idea like this. With regard to past sins of the government and the ruling coalition, the matter is quite clear. You can turn this to the left, to the right, to the head, but everything that happened last year and at the beginning of this year was illegal, it was illegal, it was a violation of Slovenian positive legislation and European legislation in many articles in the direction of those international treaties that are binding on us. It is said that there is a violation of the domestic legal order and a violation of the European legal order. And to speak of some respect for the law and the rule of law, forgive me, it is mildly untamed on your part. In short, you talk about it when something suits you and you have a political goal to do it, but when something doesn't suit you, it breaks vehemently. Well, it's like, yes, I don't know, someone was watching us from the neighbouring country or from the EU, but we are. It is not exactly as in Slovenia. When I was in Austria, either at the state level or at the country government or at the inn, I listened to the same thing. Slovenians, yes, yes, you're the one who took our schengen, and now we're going to cut you off. Approximately this is a summary of all the discussions and statements that we have heard informally in the past weeks and months. And only a ruling coalition and government is responsible for this because it did not do what was necessary in time. We're at the same point now. You say again, if things get tougher, and then we'll think about it, and then maybe even for the referendum. Wait, the call for a referendum following the procedures envisaged for this can take place at best within a few months. If we decided today to support our proposal, on this basis we would proceed to draft a decree, adopt it in accordance with a procedure which is prescribed and cannot be quickly amended and then implement it within the prescribed deadlines under the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, the referendum could be more than a permit. At that time, if you have heard too much, they will already be at the end of the elections in Macedonia, which can make things worse dramatically than they are today. And these aren't even pink by any chance. Do you know what the daily influx of migrants into Europe really is? Now that not everyone is trampling like the Slovenian government's fault in the past months, maybe someone has a false feeling that this tide is gone. But on the Balkan migration route, dispersed, partly by various criminal groups, there are up to 500 people there daily. And they come to Italy every day through the Mediterranean to some other locations of about 2,000. It is said that 2 000 500 migrants are still coming to Europe every day. Believe that Europe will do its utmost to arrange this. And we're not gonna talk about quotas like we used to. I also warned you at the time that when they said it would be 76, it would be a quota. What quota?Oh, my God! This is a pattern that will then open up and divide indefinitely, by saying that what the European Commission is doing is now a forecast that it will change this, and to the detriment of Slovenia, I quote, "that those countries that have accepted fewer asylum seekers will be more burdened." I think you can all recognize Slovenia in these words. And so now we need to protect ourselves in advance, in advance, we need to think not to go on vacation again, just like you did last August. Then don't sneer, then tell her how surprised we were. I listened to this even in the fall, and it was almost after days exactly as I had predicted in the early autumn. Then don't joke about being surprised. It's a hoax. The same as half the debates today were purely mere misdirection when it comes to different content. And there was a lot of things that were very rude. It was said by one of the colleagues that he was called by a pensioner, who worked for 40 years and now the lady is not even on the phone. Oh, come on. Now, let's see if the 123 million that the Government has earmarked for migrants from the budget would be given to all those in Slovenia, to those pensioners who have actually worked and paid for 40 years in the pension treasury, each of them would have – how much, 20, 30 euros could have been more per month. On the moon, watch out. And you're not going to believe that I could pay my phone and my subscription to it perfectly unlimitedly. That is to say, this lady should not have to deal with this problem if this government were to operate in such a way as to protect its own citizens and citizens, its own pensioners. That's what the pensioner said, but he's still a bit comical. Let's move on. We have heard that it is already a proposal and our debates, arguments, quote, "encouragement of hatred and that it is a fascism of society with hate speech". Oh, come on. About what? Because we're telling the truth. And someone told me earlier that I used the expression left-handed. I don't know how else to explain things. But why should those who call themselves left-handed be left-handed, so why would that be offensive? I really don't get it. But now let's see why it's really going. Fascism is when you push someone. And the hate speech has two articles according to European standards. The first is to name someone, call someone, insult them with a term they're dehumanizing him. The second is that you justify why it was permissible or even necessary. And look at him, and then you see the difference between words and actions. The government and the coalition that is most persecuting the hate speech, as we have now experienced in the case of the many laws that are all dedicated to the fight against hate speech, appointed yesterday in the RTV Council a person, Domen Savič, if you like, specifically who uses the term “toad” for women, those who think differently from him, and those who believe “Clerofasists”, “Clerothalibans”, and some female sex organ, if you want, will not go so low as to repeat the terms behind him. And that's what you called the RTV Council. With your votes elected, with all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that, in concrete terms, with your actions, by naming Domen Savič yesterday you performed the fascism of an enemy-speaking society, institutionalised. Now think about what you're really doing if you call things the right word. Why is this referendum so important? As it is said, it is an extremely important matter, which will be far longer-term, far longer-term than anyone might think, to decide Europe's future destiny. This is therefore not only a question of Slovenia as a country, not just an individual, but also a question of all future generations and of the identity and cultural transfer of Europe itself and of course of Slovenia and of the Slovenian people as the native nation of the Slovenian State. And probably nobody should care, but I certainly don't care what happens to Slovenia in the future. We have not proposed anything but allowing people to speak about it, for this is the actual content of this saying. Whether you open the door wide and continue the current policy, unfortunately, the ruling, conscious or unconscious, but the effect is that you have an annual outflow there of 10,000 young, most educated, those who should be the future natural elite of Slovenia, somewhere abroad, to enrich foreign countries. But you import 10,000 people who will live in social security and you will give a lot of money for their socialization, for their problems, but with security you will certainly strengthen security services and especially for that, and entrepreneurs will run abroad, because they will be overloaded and no one will be willing to pay them anymore, and they will feel dangerous. This is about the dilemma that is being decided in Europe today. And if someone tells me that it's not such an important topic that they just allow people to say things about it, then forgive me, it doesn't understand what democracy is. Democracy is just about letting people decide the fundamental issues of their destiny. It's just a question of whether you're so democratic that you let people do it, too. To think that I don't know what, illegal and unconstitutional, I don't know what else I've been listening to, is, excuse me, to put it mildly, but a ridiculous impertinence that I won't say anything worse. For the first time, it is used by that coalition that has completely disrupted the rule of law and the rule of law in the past months, right on the migration issue, and it destroys it elsewhere, let's say yesterday on the issue of the RTV Act and compliance with the provisions of the first paragraph 17. Articles. And then he's laying this as a foundation to reject it. It's not about anything binding. That is said, this can't be against the Constitution or against the law at all. This is nonsense, and this is what the legal service has written down for you if you carefully read what the legal service has written in its opinion. The only problem is that you're afraid of the moment of truth. But this moment of truth is actually already here, it's already here, it's already been seen, it's in what I said earlier, even if now the Secretary of State wanted to comfort me a little bit when I said that at the invitation to live for migrants, at first only eleven bidders applied, no one would think about what the message was. He says, but now there are 41, yes, but this is still a handful against what we could actually expect, which is the number of empty apartments in Slovenia, the people who offer apartments. But what is it? One is when individual groups, let's say those infamous journalists band 571 or those in non-governmental organisations, as they like to call themselves, are in fact still in a government way, because of course they all attach a pot to taxpayers' money and demand from the state and the congregation as much money as possible, and for the work they do, they are paid too much, they themselves declare themselves protectors of equality and fighters against exclusion. And these people demonstrate, they start a circus, they even equip themselves at Kotnikov's, so it was clear that they were ready for violence, they covered themselves, they had wheels in their hands, they had something else. But when you have to open your doors, offer your apartment for migrants, well, that doesn't even count. This is the real huge difference between words and actions — you will rape everyone else with what you are making political profit from, and of course you are doing exactly the opposite in your actions. The only thing that reminds me so much is like those slobbering leaders of the left and the unionists in the field of education who shout out loud: “Just public education, but we must not allow anyone else to be financed!” But they finance all their children at home or abroad in private schools, because, of course, they give them a better foundation, and they don't really afford it to others, and that's all they're hiding for those big, tall words. It's a hoax, ladies and gentlemen. In this case, however, this is a diversion that has very serious consequences. First, clearly, it costs a lot, second, which is even worse, threatens Europe, repeatedly, and threatens people, endangers security. As this has been going on in the past period, it can no longer go on, or Europe will split. And Slovenia still has this advantage at this point, that it is not as some mistakenly then quickly summarized, as it would suit them, that I said that Slovenia is absolutely safe, is not absolutely safe, I said that it is still relatively safe. This is what we know that we already have here certain cells of radical Islam structures, we know that I'm already importing migrants, because together it's the most explosive combination, and then, as it turns out, let's say, if you want, in Paris or in Brussels, but once again, things are still within such limits that they are manageable. I hope no one wants these things out of control. It's a simple question of what future people want. The country is a country. The country is a home. People have every right to say how many foreigners they want to let into their own home. But to say that it would violate any legislation, I'm sorry, and that's not even a diversion anymore. What kind of legislation? All that is happening in the field of migration in the European Union are double criteria for abuse. There's nothing else. Let me tell you why, and I'll also justify why I can say that. Compare two real refugees before the war from Ukraine and compare migrants who come there from Africa or from the Middle East. There was no doubt war in Ukraine, it was very severe and still soiled. More than a million, about a million and a half refugees, actual refugees from major conflicts, threw everything from cluster bombs to large-scale rockets and so on – and what did Europe do with the honorable exception of the Multigrarian Group, especially the Poles? Europe sent them back, they said, look at the laws, say what regulates the refugee problem, regulate these things so that if one part of the country is safe, you have to go back there and be there. And since the western part of Ukraine is safe, you are not all refugees, we do not recognize you as refugees, go to the western part of Ukraine. That's one criterion for one. But when it comes to the question of people from the Middle East from Africa, they come across 5, 7, 8, 10 safe countries, but they say, but you're all refugees, what you come to, and you're from Morocco, and you're fine, and you're from Iran, fine, forward, everyone in there, that's space, that's not a problem. By the way, there is no war in Morocco and Iran, and there are no sanctions. And there were a lot of them in the migrant wave, if anyone didn't notice. These are double criteria. And this, I'm sorry, this is not a vile and piglike expression that would describe it, which is what I personally think about doing it to Europe and to European leaders. [[…]] Those who are actual refugees and who have been left stranded by Europe, because aggression against Ukraine would not have been, if Europe had kept a word, and those who are still expelled, say, yes, we are strictly interpreting the law, not only do you not need to go to the neighbouring country, but in the same country, be in the same country, because this part is safe. And if you're strictly interpreting the Geneva Convention and protocols is really like that, ladies and gentlemen, remember this once and for all, that's really the content. But look when it comes to others, and suddenly it interprets completely differently. And whoever says, wait, it's double standards, look at this, look at this, it's not the same. But that's when the profanity comes in: xenophobia, fascist, and the Nazi, I don't know what else. It discredits people in every way possible. The fight against the truth. Today is the fight for freedom of the public word, the fight for the existence of Slovenia and the fight for the existence of Europe, Europe in the sense that it was based on its fundamental values when it came to it, of course, there will be no mistake. There was also a question of how we could draw this line between the left and the right. You know, sometimes it's a little different, if I use the expression left-handed, sometimes I think someone a little different, so don't get me wrong. If someone doesn't know what's on the Internet and see what it says under IM Erika on YouTube. Those who do not know what IM means, this is Inofzielle Mitglieder or an unofficial associate of the former STASI, the Secret Service of the political police of the totalitarian regime in East Germany, and who had the code name Erik. So much as next time we talk about the Udba, it's about the secret police that no one's gonna say it's not a topic. This is a topic on which the existence of a Europe that is breaking down Europe depends. Just as it would be very interesting to analyse Mr Sekolec's role in the debate with the arbitration agreement, it is also found on some very interesting lists of similar organisations in Slovenia or the former Yugoslavia. Some things cannot be understood without fully knowing what is happening regardless of the other official titles that one or the other attributes to itself by guidance or other criteria. In Slovenia at the moment, you say, there is not a particularly large number of asylum seekers. I have to warn you two. Firstly, this illusion can only become smoke very quickly if the border is released on the Macedonian-Greek side. Macedonia, as I'll tell you again, will have an election. These elections, very likely, can lead to the defeat of the current ruling VMRO-DPMNE, which is really the one that sets its back now for all of Europe. While Europe has been teasing them, it has been leaving them there for so many years. But if leftists win in Macedonia, they have announced that they will release the border, and they will flood everything again and believe that the next day the Greeks will restart the ferry and drive everything across there. And then there's going to be thousands on this side again. And that's why things need to be carefully considered now, even if that doesn't happen. Once again, at this point, there are 2 thousand 500 migrants inflows that Europe is experiencing every day. At the annual level it's barely less than last year's, that's about a million numbers out there. Each year, a million, if it took 10 years, as predicted, is 10 million. I guarantee that Europe will be gone. It's gonna spread out on multiple units, and then it's just a question of where you're gonna be, or you're gonna be somewhere on the side and forgotten. That is also why we need to think now and now things need to be drawn up. The only smart way for Slovenia, which is small, is vulnerable, is extremely rich and valuable, on the other hand, to be adequately protected. And that's why we proposed this referendum. It was essentially our offer of one compromise, even if you want a ruling party, in the hope that we will run into an appropriate interlocutor there, that you have the same understanding of the reality at least now, after this experience last fall, as we do. And you say again, because it's not a problem, because maybe it will, maybe it won't, we'll think about it then. It'll be too late then. This referendum is kind of like a fence, only on an institutional level. If we had put it a long time ago and just declared it existed, even if it wasn't perfect, the flow would have gone elsewhere, there would have been no problem. It's the same with this referendum. The point is that then you have an unknowingly stronger negotiating leverage in your hands against the institutions of the European Union if it puts excessive demands on you. I'm sure this will happen, just like things are now. Maybe in two years, everything will be different. In America, Trump will be elected, Merklov will fall, become history, and someone else will go to another country, which is here next door, to another institution, and everything will be different. But until then, we need to survive, and until then, the question is what will remain of Europe. And I think it is our common desire to do everything not to strengthen the radical force, not to strengthen the extremes, those who are actually tearing apart Europe now, because that is what this is really about, it is obvious. I think it's in the background of the entire scenario that we're watching, no matter who's pulling the strings. And to do everything to preserve Slovenia with those qualities, with its tradition, with everything that Slovenia actually consists of, and in particular with its fundamental values. This is all it is really about, whether you will continue to allow the outflow of young people abroad and you will try to compensate for some migrant influx, make Slovenia as one country a low-quality labour force that will be vehemently exploited, or make it a rich country where people will be safe, where they will enjoy well-being, where everyone will have adequate protection, and where nothing will happen in dreams what has happened in Slovenia in the past weeks is that in the same days the state will call housing for migrants, and on the other hand, that it will be a waste from the homes of young mothers with two children and people who are sick to death because they have become sick and could no longer take care of themselves. This is the bottom, I'm sorry, such a country is unworthy to exist. But there is nothing wrong with the country, the problem is that it is wrong with those who run it — with the government if that happens. And don't say there's no money. I said a good case earlier when a colleague from Desus said he was called by a woman who doesn't have a phone, and she's a pensioner, 40 years of working time. Yeah, well, the money you're spending on migrants, let's give the referendum a run, limit that number, we can do whatever I can for me, and then he'll be left with the money for that pension. Because if you divide this 123 million among those pensioners who are full-time, you will see that they remain there, each month you could get 30 or even 35 euros higher. That's enough over your head. Another half of this amount would be sufficient to pay one nice subscription for one modern phone, with the payment of all costs and unlimited calls. In this case, however, this lady should not have to deal with this. But it's because of Desus, who's in the government, who's running this policy. This is a tragedy that this lady obviously doesn't understand. Because it's a matter of wrong priorities. It's about what we're putting at the forefront. And we claim that values must be placed at the forefront. And that one of the values is solidarity with fellow citizens and fellow citizens, especially those who, for objective reasons, are, for example, a young mother with two children who could no longer keep her job, or those two of whom I spoke of, who were sick, are no longer able to care for themselves and her family. You should have the help of the state first, and they should have all these funds, then, if there's anything left, they can help someone else. But you need to help in a way that gives one real effect. And the effect of importing these people into Europe is a disaster. This is the path to destroying Europe and nothing else. And whoever's doing this is a criminal before history. Whoever invites them is a criminal before history because he makes false promises to them while at the same time misleading all his fellow citizens and fellow citizens. What would be real help is that when you create prosperity in your country, when you take care of its healthy growth, healthy entrepreneurship, which is the foundation of every successful country, to put some help there. But this will have to be completely different from what Europe has done so far, when, as a rule, individuals have become rich again on this account. An appropriate force will have to be taken care of, an appropriate army, there will be a need to go there, take care of peace, make order, take care of safe areas and take care of the functioning economy in these areas and direct all these crowds and direct assistance there. Then it'll be real help. The real help is to create some embryos and then the entire functioning economies, including in the Middle East, even in Africa, even in Central Africa, if you want, and thus strengthen the world's economy and cut down to substantially strengthen the economies and thus the well-being of the people living there, so that there will be no longer a desire for billions of people to come to Europe, from which nothing will be left and will not come here in vain, even if they come. Europe will be able to defend itself anyway. What it'll look like if this goes on, I don't want to describe it to you. All those who uncritically invite people to come and defend the open borders are guilty of all the 6,000 people who have drowned now in the Mediterranean. It's also their fault. If people were to get drunk with pure wine, if they could get help where the aid would work maximum, so where it came from, it wouldn't happen. And that's all I'm really talking about. It is therefore a question of security, of values, of respect for the future, of development and of whether we are democratic enough to enable people to decide their own destiny. In the SDS we advocate this and therefore propose a referendum on the number of asylum seekers that Slovenia is still prepared to deal with. And we are convinced that this is the only right, the only legal one, and we advocate the principle that people have power in Slovenia. And you won't believe it, it's in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Time's not up yet. We still have some time. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Please sign up. The word is Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I cannot support this proposal because it is not realistic and even if it were accepted, it would mean nothing. If what concerns the applicants and, in fact, all of us, is one massive uncontrolled arrival of a huge number of people who are not known who the asylum seeker is, who is the migrant and so on. This problem, which is very serious and which should, in principle, be a humanitarian problem first – and we are talking about those who have the right to asylum, and it is immediately then a security, very serious security problem and, last but not least, it is linked to the fact that it is a financial problem and a political problem together – and this quota would not solve anything. Besides, who would decide what to do? I do not know how many were accepted in 2015, how many people were granted status. Let's say 50. And what would they do with the one-in-fifty, that this one-in-fifty child is a mother with two children who would have the right to asylum. I've been very banal about this, but that's it. This is not how civilized countries behave. However, we have several institutions in our system for worse situations, which then deal with these problems. We have a Parliament, we have a Government, we have a National Security Council, we have a President of the Republic; I apologize for not mentioning it before the National Security Council earlier; and we are, after all, members of the European Union, where there are also rules that try to manage this problem rationally if I use a very bad word. And that should be used. This helps more than if a quota is reached by internal legislation, which must not be passed through and cannot be known by what criteria. Of course, this debate is also useful because it can contribute to the fact that the population's anxiety is actually getting a little lower, because people, we know, are those who are also concerned for a reason in some way, because we are all, in view of what is still going on and what is going on. But I repeat, even at European level, the rules are changing and the value of the European Union is that it is establishing itself as a mechanism that responds to things. The point of the European Union mechanism is that it is capable of then responding to challenges with its institutions, with our participation of all members in certain situations. So I don't see with me the real reasons why I would support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u127	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we've heard, I'll say, a lot of demagogies about what the government has done wrong. I might repeat here all those praises that have already been expressed at the expense of addressing this migratory crisis. Over and over and over and over and over and over again the same allegations and allegations that the Government is not working, colleague Grims has already assembled here and has taken from context one of my statements that was meant in this sense that it is right that the Government did not place a fence in the middle of the tourist season last year, but I have already repeated several times that all the measures taken by the Government must be gradual and must represent some response to specific circumstances at some time. It is not possible, given that there is a crisis that is very unpredictable, to make no move without knowing what moves are in stock and it is not possible to make decisions on the referendum as proposed by the SDS. Of course, not just because it is impossible to predict what will happen in the future, I must say that the data shows that we must not be exactly optimistic, that we must be realistic, but that there are those warnings that speak of such a decision being contrary to international law. Colleagues from the SDS said that international law is not that important because Europe has not proved itself here and so on. But despite this discussion, I will not be like some debaters, you put the views of certain colleagues into nothing, which I do not think is right, you talk about someone having no idea and so on. However, I would mention one of the words of my colleague Vinko Gorenak in Koper, in February a conversational omija Slovenia and the migrant crisis were organised, and my colleague Gorenak said that, given the number of residents and GDP, Slovenia could accept up to 5,000 asylum seekers. Five grand. However, we have a decision by the Government to adopt them by the end of 2017 567. I want to say that, at such a trend, 5,000 is still very far away, and there is another additional thought that we would now be wasting, as we have already heard the word, money for the referendum, on the fact that we are actually limiting, regardless of the final number, to some kind of annual quota. Such a referendum simply does not make any sense on this statement, and therefore I will say that I cannot accept any argument for this reason, if there is an urgent need for an annual quota of some kind. Then where does this quota come from? How many can we eventually accept? Is that 50 grand? Comrade Gorenak said 5,000. With the current trend, it will only be ten years from now, so this referendum makes no sense. You can also propose the law yourself if, I don't know with the content that is somehow predicted in this modest explanation of the proposal, I can point out right now that I will be against such a law, unless, of course, some of the circumstances of today's tomorrow show that again, I will say, the situation in the area of this migratory crisis is quite different. Then we'll make a different decision. But such information that we now receive does not tell us that we must make such a decision, either on the referendum or on the law. In fact, as has been said, it is not negligible that such a decision on the referendum would be unique and contrary to international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I have no choice but to ask you to tell him that this is not true what he was saying. It is simply that I have spoken of completely different matters, namely comparisons, what it means from the perspective of GDP and one million in Germany and not that Slovenia will accept 5,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u130	The text is by the proposer, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u131	I can only repeat some things once more. Where Europe comes, if it does not respect its own values and its own tradition, this picture shows nicely. Here, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Violeta Bulc is nicely wrapped in the route, I don't know what it's called, whether it's an umbrella or whatever, but I just got from there a very interesting email a few days ago, you also have it on Facebook, it's probably come to many addresses and it's published, where people who are women in Iran are alerting themselves to what this crazy Europe is like, that they want it to be just like before the Islamic Revolution, that many are trying to do it in Iran, and that is, therefore, the least said knife in the back of all such democratic efforts, if Europeans are now adapting to another culture after the new one. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the actual content of what we are talking about today. To say that this would have no effect is of course not true. I understand that Italy has a huge problem, but it is to a large extent to blame, instead of driving everyone to Lampedusa, we should return them to where they came from. Let's have a look at how Australia arranged this, and we'll be clear soon. Europe will have to reach this point sooner or later, or it will no longer be. Because what is now coming is no longer Europe. In addition, this will take place long before some other lasting consequences arise. Therefore, so that all of this does not happen, we suggest that people be allowed to speak about it on their own. And once again, this can also be an excellent lever in any reasonable government for further negotiations with anyone, on the one hand as a plus to bring the Multigradian Group closer together, which at this moment is the only one that can be an excellent model for the whole of Europe, where the interlinkages of mutual protection of economic cooperation, cultural cooperation, are all the other political levers as we would like to see the whole of Europe, while the rest of Europe works, forgive as chaos, and this as disorganized chaos, if you want my personal opinion. And that doesn't lead anywhere anymore, which is what's happening right now. Everyone is just watching each other say as much as possible and doing as little as possible to delay that there would be no decision not to let anyone look at him. But things go their own way, and the consequences are, people die. People suffer and people die. This is the problem of Europe that we are facing today. For all of this, of course, then is the only option we have left for Slovenia to adequately protect itself. Since the beginning of this story, I have been warning for months that Slovenia must rely only on itself and on its power and not rely on anyone. Believe me, all the promises made today will not be valid in one year, but nothing at all. Remember what was promised last spring, a year ago, that quotas would be — how long ago? 76 or at first it was, I think, 116 people. How many quotas are there today? What do you think's gonna happen in a year? What was said a year ago? Yeah, it's never gonna be allowed for migrants to walk freely across the border and I don't know what. Then we relied on the others. Yes, we will only be a thousand a day, and then Austria will be this, and the third one, eventually Croatia has delivered us all across the border, no agreement has been in force for 24 hours, Austria has not either. Austria, however, closed the border, and we could still rely on others. And from no school does Slovenia learn anything. And Slovenia will have to decide once and simply say no. To tell you where our options are, what our goals are, and just to stand up for it. But to do that, you have to have that machine that the Mexicans call Cojones. Why is that? What's the alternative? Some other picture. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an alternative, and I can increase it for you. And this is the image of a multiculture of Europe. Those who don't know what's in the picture are the flowers in memory of those killed in the terrorist attack in Brussels. That's a multiculture of Europe. I can show you something similar from northern Europe or I can tell you a very informative story about what's going on there. The way a girl goes for a drink, the Sharia police come and stick a glass in her face, crush her eye, expose her for life. And that's just because she allowed herself to go to a place where she's been going her whole life and had one beer. And those [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision to sign a consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and also interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u133	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, as well as on recording equipment in road transport under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. There were 46 votes in favour, and no one in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes for, and no one's. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies under the regular procedure. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the period 2016-2025. Since the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body have made the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a consultative referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultation referendum on the accommodations of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia is being held. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u134	Your Honor! The democracy of each country reflects to what extent the governing structure is ready to leave the decision to those who have the only power in democracy, and that is the people. No event in recent years has marked the whole of Europe as a migrant crisis. Of course, this has not been completed by any means; it may become more complicated in the coming few months. In any case, there is now a different period between quotas and mandatory allocation within Europe. In addition, migration is still taking place. Every day, an average of 2 000 500 people come to Europe, which of course means that the problem is not even significantly smaller than it was last autumn. In the coming months, however, this will increase further. It is important to think at the right time and it is a matter of whether we are ready to leave people to their decision in a matter not only in Slovenia, but also all in the leading structures and institutions of the European Union, without knowing it, are already calling it a fate for the future of Europe. Europe is today deciding whether to preserve its roots, whether to maintain its values and build on them, or whether it will become a completely different modified creation, which will no longer have much in common with the present Europe. This is all the more fatal for Slovenia, as it is because of the wrong government policy that it is now going abroad every year that some 10,000 young, capable entrepreneurs and some other countries are rich. Many have expressed a direct desire to make up for this by importing migrants, in which some see only their new future electoral base very lightly; remember the headlines of the Youth "Welcome 50 000 new citizens", but forget all the aspects that this brings with it – on the issue of security, on the issue of cultural extradition, on the issue of coexistence, on the issue of social issues. We have to take care of our problems first. It is unacceptable that in the same week that the government is distributing housing for migrants, people who suffer from cancer are no longer able to care for themselves and mothers of two children with two young children. This is not a social state, this is unconstitutional and this should not be happening. After all this, we want people to be given the opportunity to take part in a referendum, which is therefore consultative and cannot be illegal. It's only about letting people decide their own destiny. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u135	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u136	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The SDS party proposes that the people should decide at the referendum on the following issue, I quote: "Are you in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopting legislation stipulating that the annual number of applicants for international protection does not exceed the number of applications for international protection in 2015?" The gentlemen who proposed such a referendum decision did not submit a draft law on what exactly it would look like, nor did they indicate where in the European Union or elsewhere, anywhere on the planet Earth, there is a country with a similar law. We are convinced that this law, when adopted, would constitute a violation of the Geneva Convention, a violation of international humanitarian law, a right to treat refugees. We believe that it would also be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and also to the existing law on international protection. It is necessary to preserve humanity, to maintain basic civilisational value, to ensure that those who flee a country where their lives are at risk in order to enable them to be treated in accordance with international law and standards, and then to determine whether this international protection is justified or not. Setting quotas, that is to say a system whereby someone who would come too late in the sense that the quota would be set to a number, say, a thousand, and he would be the first to be told automatically, listen, we have such a law that you have to return from where you came from, even though international law allows international protection. We believe that such a law would be against all basic principles of humanity and, of course, because of this kind of initiative proposed by the SDS, we cannot support the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u137	First of all, is there any other explanation on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you. The migrant crisis has exposed Europe's weakness when it comes to determination, when it comes to defence and when it comes to preserving its values. Just a few weeks ago, even a member of the SD, Mr German, said: “Will Europe keep the situation to be based on Christian tradition, or will it no longer be Europe?” I'll sign with both hands. What Europe has shown by its actions is false humanity and false solidarity. In fact, people are actually dying because of the wrong European policy. This has been best demonstrated by the two-faced conduct of those who are actually refugees from Ukraine, even because Europe has largely left them stranded, this Europe has sent them back if that other part of Ukraine is still safe. But when it comes to the question of people coming from the Middle East or from Africa and going through five, others even ten completely safe countries, where they do not apply for asylum, there is no problem, but refugees who by the way are not at all under international law are opening up to them all doors, renting them apartments, forget about their own social problems which Slovenia has hugely, because there is obviously a completely different political invoice behind them. That's not right. At the same time, this also exposes the fact that if the issue of refugees from Ukraine, actual refugees, is not meant to violate European and international legislation, of course, even if the number of asylum seekers is limited here, there is no way that this can happen. On the contrary, you know very well that anyone entering Slovenia through a safe state and only here seeking asylum is one who is actually engaged in an asylum shopping and therefore abuses asylum legislation, abuses the weakness and stupidity of European authorities who are doing so out of certain political interests. And that's why I'm voting for the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-18.ana.u139	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 25 April 2016, at 9 a.m.
