ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Juliana Bizjak Mlakar since 14:00, Violeta Tomić, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Ljudmila Novak from 12.30, Eva Irgl, Bojan Podkrajšek, Andrej Čuš, Tomaž Gantar, Miha Kordiš, Matej T. Vatovec, Matjaž Hanžek, Janez Janša, László Göncz, Ivan Škodnik, Kamal Izidor Shaker from 13:00, Danilo Anton Ranc from 13:00, Franc Laj, Matthew Tonin from 12.30, Jernej Vrtovac from 12.30, Jože od 11:00, Marijan Pojbič and Jožef Horvat from 15:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the group of 11 Members and Members with the first Magi signed is a group of 11 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, dear colleague and colleague, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers! I wish you a good day on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Although we are on the last day of the National Assembly meeting this week, we are starting with an extremely important content, this is banking. In Novi Slovenija, we have re- tabled a proposal for a new Banking Act in the framework of a package for the prosecution of banking crime, since we want to prevent once and for all harmful recruitment into the supervisory councils and administrations of banks, which in the past caused bank holes that we have to patch up with taxes to all citizens. Tax or bank holes have severely shaken the Slovenian public and, above all, Slovenia's development. At the time of consideration of our previous proposal for a law, in copy-paste form within the Act on the Rescue and Forced Cessation of Banks, the Government has put an identical solution into the legislative procedure immediately for New Slovenia. In this way, the coalition has imposed a hybrid treatment of both bill proposals, thus preventing the general debate requested on our proposal for a law. Of course, the coalition immediately removed our solution from its marriage, which is, to say the least, unusual. We have taken into account in New Slovenia some of the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as some of the Government's concerns, which were raised in the context of the hybrid treatment of the previous proposal. We have also extended the use of a new non-profit claim indicator for members of the Supervisory Board to members of the board in the new proposal. The bill is based on the so-called promise theory developed by Daniel Kahneman as a theory of behavioural economy and won the Nobel Prize for Economics. So I think that, with regard to the solutions themselves, the methodology itself will be debated today, I hope that no one will discuss in the direction of withdrawing the Nobel Prize. The proposed additional adequacy indicator of the members of the banking administrations and supervisory boards shows the proportion of non-performing claims in the bank where the person acted in the most important places. The members of the supervisory board or the management board of the bank must by no means become persons who, in the past, have demonstrated the sub-average effectiveness of their operations in carrying out the most important functions in banks with regard to poor loans. In doing so, we propose to compare both the average of the Slovenian banking system and the average of the European monetary union system which Slovenia is part of. The indicator shall apply to claims arising during the period of operation of a person in the most important positions in banks, but within a time frame of at least 2 and a maximum of 10 years of its operation. The ten-year period is justified by the argument of observation of the cycle of the economy and thus of the banking system and the assessment of the stability of the operation of the bank according to the proposed criterion. Just ensuring the stability of the banking system is the main objective of this bill. However, the best indicator of the bank's stability is an indicator of non-performing claims. In this respect, in New Slovenia, we are apprehensive about the Government's opinion, which advocates, among other things, a risky business model with a high proportion of non-performing claims. Also, the so-called casino banking, combined with state-owned banks, brings an unacceptable high level of instability in the banking system. As a result, it can also be seen as a multibillion-dollar bank recapitalisation. The repetition of this scenario must be prevented in the future, and that is why banking privatisation and the adoption of this bill are absolutely necessary, contrary to the Government's opinion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in Nova Slovenija we expect a fruitful debate and, of course, a conclusion that will open the door to this proposal of the law in the second reading on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! The group of Members and Members with the first signed mag. Matthew Tonin has tabled a proposal for a amendment to the Banking Act. The draft law is similar to the proposal for a law already tabled by a group of Members and Members in April 2016, except that it referred only to the appointment of members of the supervisory board of the bank. Although some of the professional shortcomings of the previous proposal have been addressed by the proponents, some of the reasons why the Government objected to the proposal at the moment remain. This is why the Government still does not support the Banking Act's proposal to date. The period of employment of the candidates in each bank and the amount of non-performing claims that the bank shows during that period do not provide comprehensive information on the liability of the individual candidate for the operation of the bank and to increase the amount of non-performing claims in banks during that period. The effectiveness of the candidate’s activities in the banking field cannot be assessed solely by the proportion of the non-performing claims of the bank in which it operated in the past. The possible over-average value of this share does not necessarily mean that the bank is failing in its business. The proposed time frame for assessing the proportion of non-performing claims, which takes into account only those claims that occurred during the period during which the candidate was employed in the bank, is still considered by the Government to be inadequate. The indicator measuring the share of the bank’s non-performing claims on a given day shall normally reflect developments in respect of the approved loan at a time-limit. The effects of the measures to resolve non-performing claims and their restructuring, allowing them to be reclassified as profitable claims, are also reflected by the delay of several years, which is not necessarily the same as the period during which the applicant was employed in the bank. In the proposal for a new law, the proposed criterion implies unequal treatment of candidates, as it would apply only to candidates who are employed in leading or leading positions in the bank, but not to other candidates coming from the non-bank sector. In view of the different practices in the Member States of the European Union, the European Banking Authority identified a uniform definition of non-performing and restructured exposures only last year. Until last year, the definition of non-performing claims in EU Member States was different. This represents an additional obstacle to the credible comparison of data on the proportion of non-performing claims with the average of other banks in the European Monetary Union. With regard to the proposal under consideration today, the Government has also obtained the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, which opposes the proposal for substantive reasons similar to those presented by the Government in its opinion. The European Central Bank, in the context of the consultation procedure on the draft law governing resolution and forcible termination of banks, expressed the view that the proposed solution whereby candidates are selected by a formula without discretion in decision-making is not proportionate to the objective they want to achieve, which is a better composition of the management boards and supervisory boards of banks. As far as the existing criteria used by Banka Slovenije in assessing the eligibility of candidates are concerned, their responsibility for obtaining bad loans in the bank is also checked. The government therefore considers that the current legal arrangements for the appointment of bank administrations are appropriate as they contain mechanisms that prevent professionally inappropriate persons from continuing to act on responsible functions in the banking system. In view of all the above, we propose not to support the proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacic, Member of the Parliamentary Joint Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a bill that we will not support in the Desus Group. The bill seeks to introduce in the Slovenian banking system a new criterion for the appointment process to the supervisory councils and administrations of banks. Based on the so-called promise theory, which will allow candidates to be appointed to these positions, who in the past have demonstrated their over-average success according to the index of the bad loans. In particular, it is proposed to introduce an indicator in the form of a share of the non-performing claims of each bank and of the banking system. As a non-performing claim, a claim is defined which is not settled in the bank within 90 days of maturity. In doing so, we have a number of concerns in the Desus Group, which we have been reminded of since the June session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Otherwise, compared to the previous proposal, this time, apart from the conditions for the appointment of a member of the supervisory board of the bank, also provides for the appointment of members of the bank's administration. The considerations go in the direction that the candidate's performance cannot be assessed only through the prism of the share of bad loans, since a bank with sufficient capital can choose a more risky way of doing business, but its indicators can nevertheless be over-average. It is also problematic that the area of non-performing claims at European Union level is not yet fully harmonised. According to the proposal, the assessment of the proportion of non-performing claims is also carried out on the basis of a comparison with the average share in the European Monetary Union banking system. If this area is not uniform, it cannot be implemented in practice. We also point out that the reason for the classification of claims as non-profitable may also be the situation that occurred after the termination of the employment of the candidate in the bank concerned. We believe that there are quite a few doubts that the exclusion of certain candidates under the criteria of the bill would be fair. As a result, we will not support the proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! So, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we note that the proposed Banking Supplement Act, which has been tabled by the applicants, is somehow being upgraded by a proposal that we have considered recently, is an extension from the fact that it is not only the appropriateness of the candidates who are in the supervisory boards but also those who take responsibility for the management of banking transactions. At first glance, I think that we can all agree that there is a need to tighten the supervision of the operations of banks and of the decisions they make, because we have very serious consequences, which we also see in public debt, because we have actually undertaken this obligation because of such a business on our shoulders and people. However, the criteria which they are trying to implement in this respect are not sufficiently appropriate and many times there would be ambiguity as to whether it is possible to carry out a proper review of the bad claims in both the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and in other countries within the European Union, since these criteria and those comparisons are in fact extremely inconsistent and inconsistent within the European space. So the same ambiguity would cause even more problems than a solution. In addition, in this proposal, we are faced with the fact that a candidate who may have come at the time of the resolution or entered a bank when a bad claim has not yet been made by a committee, which was created just when he took office, due to other events that a company had – this person could also be held liable and inadequate under this law to perform the most responsible function in the banking system. So the proposal itself is also at this point impeccable. On this occasion, however, we would like to point out that this moment is certainly an extraordinary challenge – if we can say so – in Slovenia, that credit is being granted at all, because large restrictions and increasingly difficult accessibility, or an extremely difficult task for those who wish to receive credit from our banks, is something that actually hampers the role of banks and, on the other hand, it is due to some poor claims. So the very relationship between banks and commentators is extremely important. In addition, we must not rule out the fact that we have a European Commission decision over us that makes it impossible for banks to play a more active role in assigning credits – and who, for example, will then have to take responsibility in these banks if there are bad claims due to the decision of the European Commission? This aspect is not taken into account either. We would like to point out that the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia is essential in all these procedures. This highest regulatory authority in banking is the one that must closely monitor developments in banks and also react in a timely manner. This mechanism is built and the problem is, to what extent and how consistently it is implemented. And here is a question that we have repeatedly pointed out to the Court of Auditors — that crucial issue that will have to be resolved. These procedures simply lack the supervision of the Court of Auditors, both within the Bank of Slovenia and within the business banks themselves. If we touch, not least, on the Court of Auditors’ audit report on the effectiveness of the management of non-performing claims and the management of contracts with the New Ljubljana Bank, it is clear from the summary of this report that the New Ljubljana Bank has established an early warning mechanism for increased credit risk on the basis of predetermined indicators, it has established a list of the committees that are being monitored and considered before possible default occurs due to an increased risk of default. This is the key activity that needs to take place within banks, and this is also what Banka Slovenije needs to monitor whether it is being implemented in time. However, the Court of Auditors still finds that, despite the fact that these processes have been introduced in the New Ljubljana Bank, they nevertheless deviate from the proper conduct in the approval and monitoring of credits. They also point out that the way in which internal acts are adopted and their unclear hierarchical location and their application across districts have created additional uncertainties in the application of the acts, which may significantly make it difficult for individual procedures to be carried out in the context of the credit process. And what is important is that the credit process does not yet have established ownership of the process, so it is still unclear who that custodian of the process is, that someone gets credit, and that he is then also being monitored as to how this contractual obligation is being implemented. These are the key guidelines set out in the Court of Auditors' summary, which should be scrutinised extremely consistently, particularly by the Slovenian State Holding Company, which manages state banks. Of course, even in these procedures, we do not touch on the operation and conduct of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which must also make sure that the candidates proposed are properly checked, irrespective of the fact that this is the procedure for both the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank. But the role of the Slovenian State Holding is also omitted here, which shows that this proposal is not really comprehensive and much more effort will have to be made to establish a truly successful and transparent lending process in Slovenia. Because of all these shortcomings, of course, this law in the Polish Group of Social Democrats will not be supported or considered not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! As we explained earlier this year, when Nova Slovenija proposed a similar law, we will also be against the proposed law, especially for two basic reasons. The first reason, the law does not solve the key problem of the supervisory councils and the administrations of Slovenian banks. The main problem with supervisory boards and bank administrations is that employees do not have their own representatives. The additional problem is that the public interest in state banks, in supervisory councils, is represented by various supervisors, business advisers, managers from private companies, rather than being represented by people responsible for democratically elected bodies. This issue will soon be solved by the coalition by privatising the last two nationalised banks – then banks will not have to exercise public interest either formally. Another reason for our opposition is that this proposal is ineffective and, in this context, I can also say that it is inexpertible. The basic idea, though, is legitimate. The appropriateness of the supervisor or manager would be verified by comparing the scope of the bad claims in the banks in which he worked with the Slovenian and European averages. As already pointed out in the Bank of Slovenia, there is still no uniform definition of bad debts in the European Union. In some countries, only that debt that is not repaid by the debtor is considered as a bad claim; in others, all debts of the debtor shall be taken into account. The question is therefore whether comparable data could be obtained. We are in favour of assessing the candidate on the basis of objective indicators, but note that in the capitalist economy the responsibility is difficult to measure. Why is that, there would be another debate. At first glance, poor claims seem to be a good criterion, but this is actually more moralistic than a professional argument. The poor claims from the euro takeover are not only or not so much a consequence of individual business decisions – although in part, this is our process of tycunization, as we call it today – as the result of three systemic factors: the greatest crisis of capitalism after World War II, the negative consequences of taking the euro for the less developed members and pro-cyclical measures of the first Janša government. If I list only three measures: reduction of income, corporate income tax, elimination of paid-out tax; secondly, early repayment of domestic debt by borrowing abroad with already 30% growth in foreign loans and, of course, the massive privatisation of state-owned enterprises, from Mercator to Vegrad. In certain positions – before our position – there was talk about the supervisory role of the Bank of Slovenia, the role and responsibility of SDH. The proponents also know well what the ownership structure of banks is in Germany – which they often like to refer to – where private ownership does not predominate, where banks are owned by the country or by the region and carry out the key basic, if you want, parental banking and are entangled in the regional environment. In short, real problems are essentially political economic problems that cannot be addressed through moral solutions. To get rid of them with a different and different political economy, a different and different model of development, both economic and social. And that's basically the mission of us in the National Assembly. Finally, of course, there are Nobel laureates, but there is a good old Bertolt Brecht, who said something clever about banks and banking, and unfortunately within the political economic model within which we are, the Brecht words apply more. As I said at the outset, we will oppose the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Dear Members, dear Members, good afternoon! If we consider the practice of the operation of banks in the last period and the implementation of the current legal criteria for appointment to the supervisory councils and in the administration of banks, we can find that action and something needs to be changed in this area. The current Banking Act contains certain provisions defining the eligibility of the candidate as a member of the Supervisory Board or the administration of the bank. However, experience shows that these provisions are overly defined and allow for entry into the Supervisory Board also to completely inappropriate persons, persons who have already been responsible for bank holes in the past. Our aim is to make subjective criteria for appointments as objective as possible. This certainly is not a moralistic criterion, but an objective criterion – it means a criterion that can be measured in numbers. That is why we need measures in the area of banking candidatures, which must not be merely beauty corrections, but must actually be effective. The new Slovenia therefore proposes the introduction of a non-performing claim indicator which would show very clearly who is suitable and inadequate to assume the responsibility of a member in the management or supervisory board of the bank. According to our proposal, it is inappropriate for a member of the Banking Authority or of the Supervisory Board to have caused an excessive amount of poor claims in the performance of an important position in the Bank in the past. How else am I supposed to measure this? If you have any other ideas, please, with ideas per day. The retention of discretion in the appointment of candidates to the administration and the supervisory council of banks in specific cases would not provide a definitive departure from unacceptable practices from the past. These practices of appointing inappropriate candidates must not be kept in custody, but must be closed and locked for all time. The main objective pursued by the bill is to ensure the stability of the banking system in the long term. This is a condition for the sound functioning of the financial and economic system of the country. In addition, we are pursuing the objective of preventing further abuses in the supervision and management of banks that have led to the unimaginable sums of money ending in an unknown place and that each of the Slovenian citizens has a debt of EUR 2 000 500 on his back caused by bank recovery. In Novi Slovenija, we are ready to discuss and coordinate the solutions contained in this proposal for the law below the legislative process. We have never claimed to know everything and to know everything, but we argue that the current system is not good enough to allow the appointment of members of the supervisory boards and the management of banks that are not suitable for this work. That is why this Parliament should actively seek solutions in order to prevent this. We are ready to coordinate with both opposition and coalition parliamentary groups. We do not have any problems with this, but we fear that the government coalition does not have much hearing to do to prevent the recruitment of inappropriate persons to the most important functions in banks. Their readiness, i.e. the coalition readiness to face the problems facing our banking system, will also show up today in a vote on whether the coalition will allow this bill to be further discussed, where it can be further finalized. Since in New Slovenia we want to cut out old patterns of appointment of inappropriate persons to the most important functions in banks, we will, of course, understand this, we will support the proposal of the amendment of the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	Nice greetings from the president, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! We have a new Banking Act ahead of us. In fact, it's a very short novel, and if I simplify it, it says that those who are guilty of putting in our banks a fairly busy pile of money have nothing to look for in these banks. Not in the control councils, not in the management of the bank. Now tell me, colleagues and colleagues, why is it so hard to agree? It's really hard to understand. Those of us who sat were very few, in the last session, when the investigative commission on the bank hole – if I make it easier – we took note of the results, the intermediate results of the work of this commission. I think it was crystal clear that it was possible to determine, with names and surnames, who are the people responsible for the bank hole being created. It is really difficult to understand how a coalition, how the largest government party, which is still full of ethics and must, when it comes to doing this, simply squeezes its tail between its legs. And it's not right. People, Slovenes and Slovenians, are the ones who unfortunately had to rehabilitate the banks if we wanted our economy and the country not to end up on their knees. The modern centre — then Mira Cerar – promised before the elections how it would change things. She promised to make things different in our country. She promised the Law on Systemic Investigations, which would expose and punish thieves for TES 6 for a bank hole and some other major crime. What do we have today, after two years? Nothing. But it's really nothing. The case of the New Ljubljana Bank and the appointment of supervisors to the New Ljubljana Bank may even show us why the SMC is against. Also, the appointment of Mr Jazbec in the Slovenian State Holding shows why he is against such laws. On the government side – as well as two coalition parties so far, they have said that the law is not well placed, that it has shortcomings and so on. Yeah, there's probably something missing in the marriage, but it can certainly be arranged in the course of the process as it should be. We will be in our parliamentary group because we think it is right that those responsible for the bank hole cannot sit in the banks, of course they supported the bill. And even though I am not a co-signatory or a co-proposer of this law, I call upon all of us to sever our species and show that we are for this. Not only in words, not only by writing on social networks, by speaking in this hall, but by doing so, let us show that it is really necessary to make an end. Because, otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues, in a few years, we may have to rehabilitate our banks again, thanks to you. And, of course, I am firmly against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are again considering the legislative proposal of the Group of Members on the amendment of the Banking Act. The solutions proposed are very similar to those already in the legislative procedure for restricting members of the Supervisory Board – by imposing restrictions on the appointment of a member of the Bank’s Board and members of the Supervisory Board that, for example, this member of the Board or the Supervisory Board does not have the reputation and competence to manage the bank’s business or to control the management of the bank’s business, even if that person were employed as a member of the Bank’s management or supervision body, senior management or employee with special powers to represent and conclude transactions on behalf of a bank and for the account of a bank where the non-performing of all claims for an individual study period was not less than in other banks in the Bank’s country of operation or across the other banks in the European Monetary Union under this indicator. We can say that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already warned in the second reading of the previous version of the law, in addition to the Government and the Bank of Slovenia, that such provisions are not enforceable. As the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out, the area of non-performing claims at European Union level has not yet been fully harmonised and the proposed criterion in practice will not be assessed. In view of the compatibility of the bill with the Constitution, such a failure to implement the law could constitute non-compliance with the rule of law — Article 2 of the Constitution. The Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out the previous version of the law, which has the same dictions as this law, in order to create additional ambiguities as set out in Article 3(3), since these supplements also deepen the vague use of the link or in determining the area to be used for the calculation of the indicator in a given period — whether the average calculated for other banks in the country of operation of the bank or the average calculated for other banks in the European Monetary Union should be used. The explanation of this lack of clarity does not remove this, as it even implies that comparison of indicators should be made first in Slovenia or in the candidate country, and then always with banks in the Eurosystem. The textual interpretation of the proposed provision in the explanation of the said interpretation of the provision cannot support it, so we stress the need for a clear and precise definition of the situation, which will mean that an individual will not meet the condition for a member of the supervisory board of the bank. A similar provision is also proposed for a member of the Management Board by Article 3(3) 38, which also introduces similar ambiguities for members of the Management Board as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service for a member of the Supervisory Board. With regard to such a proposal – the European Central Bank has given a negative opinion on it. Regarding the success of the candidate’s activities in the banking field, this is a matter that cannot be determined solely on the basis of poor claims. It is also a question of why and when bad claims have arisen. If a member of the Board and the Supervisory Board is guilty of acting not in the best interest of the bank, then he should not be in the board or supervisory board of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia also assesses this. For members of the administration, Banka Slovenije gives prior consent on the basis of the very strict conditions laid down by the new Banking Act, which we have adopted in this mandate. The Bank of Slovenia shall, pursuant to Article 58 of the Banking Act, provide for a more detailed content of the criteria for assessing the eligibility of the candidate to serve as a member of the bank’s or supervisory board’s management and a more detailed content of the documentation to be attached to the request for appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board with regard to the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 38 and 53 of the Banking Act. In accordance with Article 13 of that Act, the Bank of Slovenia has adopted a decision on the application of the guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of the members of the management or control bodies and the holders of key functions, in order to fully comply with the guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of the members of the management or control bodies and the holders of the key functions prepared by the European Central Bank. In the work relating to the performance of the tasks and powers of the competent authority with regard to the fulfilment of the requirements for banks to assess the suitability of proposed and appointed members of the management or control bodies and holders of key functions in banks. However, in Chapter 13, they set very detailed criteria for the assessment, the reputation of a member of the management or control bodies. The Bank of Slovenia Act 2 contains additional provisions which provide the legal basis for action in order to prevent inappropriate persons from continuing to act on responsible functions in the banking system. Under Article 270 of the same law, the Bank of Slovenia shall order a member of the managing authority of the bank to cease certain conducts or to remedy any infringements found. Under the conditions laid down in Article 271 of the Banking Act 2, the Bank of Slovenia shall withdraw the authorisation to serve as a member of the Management Board, while the member of the Supervisory Board shall be prohibited by a decision if the member no longer fulfils the conditions of appointment at the time of appointment or after the commencement of the function, if the appointment of the member has not been in accordance with Article 34 of the Banking Act, or if the member is in serious breach of the duties of a member of the supervisory board of the Bank. We will therefore vote in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre against the fact that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Applicants, Fellow Members, Fellow Members! We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Banking Act. Probably not a month later, in the National Assembly we would not have a agenda item on the issue of the banking system in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that banking in Slovenia is a problem and that the Bank of Slovenia Act and also the Bank of Slovenia Act need urgent changes, but unfortunately, somehow there is no will or common ground so far in the National Assembly in order to jointly regulate this change and supplement. The proposer proposes to introduce a new criterion into the Slovenian banking system during the main decisions of this law, namely the admissibility of appointment to supervisory councils and bank administrations. Under this criterion, only candidates could be named for this position, which in the past, according to the index of the share of so-called bad loans, have demonstrated their over-the-counter success. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have some concerns about the proposed solution, especially in the work to assess performance and that the indicator would be included only for those who were or are currently employed in the banking system. It should be borne in mind that in the administrations of banks and supervisory boards of banks are also referred to as those that do not come from the banking system. And here's the main question, what about those? Some will be subject to the criteria for the appointment of candidates, while others will not. Last but not least, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that the owner himself should be so responsible as to propose suitable candidates, because it must be in the interests of the owners, in both administrations and supervisory councils, that candidates who meet all the conditions and are worthy of trust. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this proposal could in some way make sense and that the main reason for this amendment by the proposer comes mainly from the irresponsibility of the Government of Mir Cerar, the Ministry of Finance and these coalitions, which mainly appoint inadequate candidates to banks with 100 % state ownership. I think it is also necessary to say here that it is the responsibility of the Government of Mir Cerar, the coalition, the modern centre parties, the Social Democrats and Desus to appoint suitable candidates to the banks that meet all the conditions. We can see that, probably in ownership, private, the bank does not come to these problems, that only banks owned by the state and managed by the Slovenian State Holding are problematic. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not be able to provide support for this solution in the light of all the proposals that have been made, especially for the reasons stated earlier. This means that these criteria would only apply to one segment of the candidates, but what about those that don't come from the banking system? What to do with them, which criteria should apply to them? This means that we could also come here to see that the proposal is unbalanced and, above all, that it applies to the selection of candidates for members of the Supervisory Board of different criteria. The question is also raised when the candidate comes from abroad. There is no commitment that this candidate will come from the banking sector operating in the European Union and can also come outside the European Union, beyond the supervision of the European Central Bank. In what way, though, will these criteria listed here be checked? Regardless of everything, the Nobel Prize is justifiable, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also wonder whether it makes any sense or appropriate that all these numbers and all of them are thrown into law. I think that in Slovenia we already have legislation that is so pre-normative, not only in banking, but also in other areas. And we are convinced that this would only add additional so-called bureaucratic obstacles in some way, but in particular not all candidates for the Supervisory Council would be in an equal position. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the owner is the one responsible for appointing members of the Supervisory Councils and that the owner must ensure that the members of the Supervisory Board meet all the criteria under the Banking Act and the Bank of Slovenia Act and that the owner is the one who must protect his interest in a share society. And it can save or fulfil its interest in a share society only by appointing an appropriate candidate with all the competences and experience.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jožef Horvat, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much to all who have presented your views on behalf of your parliamentary groups, views on our proposed solution. First of all, this congregation should decide whether it really has the heart’s will to do something about banking crime. If the answer is no, we're done. If yes, solutions to the table. For three years now, 4 billion euros — half of the country’s budget — have been thrown into what we have identified as a bank hole. And I ask myself, and I ask myself, and the citizens ask me, is this crime, this banking crime, who's sitting? No, no, no. The guard here at the Ljubljana market, because she may not have had a tax check or that she committed another micro offence, she was fined 3,000 euros. So much for this "dimension". I have also noticed, forgive my personal assessment that some even government parties have expressed their negative views on this bill with their teeth pressed. Problematizing methodology is throwing sand in your eyes. This gentleman – yes, he won the Nobel Prize. He was a psychologist and a mathematician. Do you have to be a psychologist when you work? Give your own answer. He was of American-Israeli origin, but this moment is not even as important. Maybe I'll take my turn. The government's opinion. Among other things, on the third page, the Government writes: "because the area of non-performing claims at European Union level is not yet fully harmonised" and so on and so on. Look, we are not talking about the European Union, we are talking about the European Monetary Union. This must be where Vladi made his laps. On the other hand, the Government would like to emphasise that the current regulation of the area of appointment of management authorities is appropriate. Oh, my God. How did we put those gentlemen into the NLB control councils? I asked my colleague Jernej Vrtovec to explain a little more later, because this area is better managed. It's interesting, but I don't have an answer, so I'm putting it in front of you and my colleagues. The government has integrated our previous solution, copy-paste, into its proposal for a law on the resolution and forcible termination of banks. Then, of course, she erased it. What was going on back then? We don't have that answer. That's unusual. I have never seen such solutions in this period of my time in the National Assembly that the government integrates the solution of even the opposition party – which means that the solution is good, that it has been good. At the time, only members were involved, in the recruitment of banks. Now, as we say, we've extended this to the control councils. But then the government in the final text deleted it and said that she had changed her mind. Well, not the government, Members, that I'm more accurate. The Desus Group correctly concluded that this was a new criterion. Yes, it's a new criterion, and all the other criteria, of course, remain. But perhaps the Desus Group does not understand when it says that it is not possible to judge a candidate only through an indicator of the proportion of non-performing claims. No, it's a new one that's been added to all the other existing ones. Of course it is not possible, it is just an additional criterion, an indicator, a proportion of the non-performing claims. So I hope we understand each other now. The Group of Social Democrats said the proposal was inappropriate. What's inappropriate? And I understand if it's inappropriate, of course – you opened the door to another reading. Then there are those techniques where we will all be together, not just us proposing – because we are not saying that this content needs to be adopted. Now there is a possibility in the second reading that solutions will improve. That's why we have another reading. So let's remove these incompatibilities that you see in the SD. That Banka Slovenije has an impact on staffing – it is true, there is a license for members of bank administrations. In the previous term, some of you who are sitting here have voted against the requirement of a licence for supervisory councils, which is what Banka Slovenije wants as a regulator, and we – but you told her that I am more accurate – have tied up our hands. United Left: »non-executive law, unprofessional...« I say, all the data for the calculation exists, everyone. We checked it a couple of times, we didn't write anything down, you know. They say that the non-performing claim is not defined, in the United Left they say so. See, the non-performing claim is defined and as a non-performing claim we define that claim which is not settled in the bank within 90 days of maturity. Thus, if the maturity is today, then we measure 90 days, if this claim is not settled, it is considered intolerable. This is a mathematically accurate and exact definition. Non-connected Members, Mag. Alenka Bratušek actually says – but in other words – that we have a bank box in Slovenia. We agree with this, and we have also discussed this in the previous mandate of the commission of inquiry led by the distinguished colleague Marko Pogačnik. Just one example – without names, I do not want to mention names here – we have heard the director of the branch of the New Ljubljana Bank outside Slovenia, who was once the vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia, responsible for supervision. And that is how — not to say — he spat, Members, members of the commission and said that we had no idea that we had gone to the wrong side to rescue ourselves, to find the culprits for the bank hole, and that we had a natural accident. So it's nature's fault that we have a bank hole. And that's why I'm saying we have a bank box, and this law is meant to break this bank box. The bank box means that the bankers actually circle, once they're in one bank, then even if they cook there, they take a little license back and so on. They also go from Banka Slovenije to commercial banks and so on. We know these names, I don't have enough time, and I don't even intend to talk about it. SMC – This is where I noticed my colleague Verbic, who presented the position of the SMC Group, the Modern Centre Party, with his mouth pressed down. However, since we have studied all these materials well, even when we have considered our previous law and the government law on bank resolution and forcible termination, I have the feeling that a colleague has read the position or opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the Government's Proposal for a Law on the Rescue and Forced Ceasing of Banks, which has integrated our solution. I think that the SMC party should be the one to force a solution, a proposal, a kind of heart in this direction, to find some legal solutions, because we are the legislative branch of power, so that by the end of the term, we can put someone in jail, at least one bank criminal, if not, you will lose the election. My colleague Marko Pogačnik – SDS – is of course a relevant question, but what if the candidate did not work in the banking system. This question is relevant. We have an answer in the law that says that if a candidate has worked in a banking system for at least two years in the past, then this criterion is included, if he has worked for less than two years, we say that there is a period not observed. This interval is set from two to ten years due to the cycle of the economy I was talking about when I introduced the law. It is perfectly normal – here we have virtually the same position – the owner is the one most responsible and is logically and naturally responsible, but this law applies to all banks in Slovenian space, but of course we are most hit with the management of state banks. We're a phenomenon in the European Union, anyway. We are in the first place after the state's share of banks, and we are also in the world among the first eight countries where the country has the largest share in banks. That's really a phenomenon, and that's not normal. So much for now. Later on, I will present perhaps more in a visual form how these criteria are calculated for the candidates of the supervisory and management bodies of the banks. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mrs. Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for the Banking Act submitted by Nova Slovenije for consideration, namely, these amendments to this Act relate mainly to the part which determines what conditions the candidate or supervisory function in the bank must fulfil, is said to be a member of the Supervisory Board, or to the administration of the bank. More specifically, this law specifies when it is considered that an individual candidate for the management of such functions does not have the reputation and characteristics for the management of bank transactions or, on the other hand, for the supervision of banks. The proposer therefore proposes that the law should provide for the introduction of an indicator limiting the number of candidates for members of supervisory boards and bank administrations to the most successful ones. Thus, the proposaler believes that this indicator would help to highlight the best, most successful ones. In order to do so, it proposes to be assessed by introducing a new indicator comparing for a certain period the proportion of non-performing claims of the bank where this candidate was employed, first with the share of non-performing claims of all banks in the banking area of Slovenia and then the share of non-performing claims in the entire European Monetary Union. And who would be judged that way? Anyone who has been in the bank during this time period — as the applicant has already said — is employed as a member of the board or supervisory boards. This would apply to senior management, which would also apply to workers with special powers. In my debate, I would focus on these proposed solutions, highlight some of my dilemmas or issues that arise when we talk about the solutions proposed by this law. First of all, I have a question about how the bank even approves credit, who is responsible for the bank's credit policy and lending. To the greatest extent, this is the responsibility of the bank's credit board, where I probably don't know, members of the risk management board, a member of the commercial administration, and I don't know who else. These are probably the ones that have the greatest impact on credit policy and lending in each bank. This proposal, the New Slovenia proposal, refers to everyone who worked in this bank over a period of time. This means, for example, that a member of the Operations Management Board, a member of the IT Administration or an IT Director or other staff with special powers who do not have much credit with this procedure and who worked in a bank with an over-average share of bad credits should not serve as a member of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Board in any of the Slovenian banks anymore. In short, in my view, this proposal discriminates against those employees in the bank who do not participate in the credit process, and do not decide on the granting of credits, in the direction that they were no longer fit and proper in any Slovenian bank. In my opinion, however, every bank needs more knowledge, not only of the knowledge needed to decide on credits, but there is also a number of others, for whom someone must also be responsible and have certain powers, to be in the management of the bank in other areas in which the bank is responsible. Of course, not to be misunderstood, those who directly decide on lending processes and procedures bear the greatest responsibility, I agree with that. However, the question is whether this indicator, which is proposed, will really expose the most successful and if some of us may be unduly excluded. My next thought is how does the NPL come about, or a bad loan? At the time when the credit is granted, individual customers shall be assessed for the information which is available at that time. However, credits, we know, are granted for a longer period of time. I don't know, for natural persons 30 years, for companies 10 years and so on. Thus, if a natural person has received a credit for a house, apartment or whatever at the time of employment for an indefinite period of income, this does not mean that such a situation will be maintained for all the next 30 years when this credit has to be repaid. A customer can lose a good job, some other difficult life situations happen to it, resulting in a rapid failure to pay the loan. It's the same with companies where I think the risks are even higher. For example, an economic company loses an important buyer, the amount of income falls, as a result of which there is less financial flow and can soon become such a company insolvent and becomes an NPL, or so is its credit, a bad loan. And what do I mean by that? That the NPL, the bad loans, become bad loans not only due to errors in the decision-making processes on the bank's side, but also due to reasons on the party's part. And in my opinion, this law does not take sufficient account of this because a lot of credit is being paid by the bank itself — to become a bad loan — neither can it affect or be difficult to influence. Then go ahead, what else would you point out? In my opinion, this proposal prepared by NSI is too static. Determines the condition or cut on a specific day. However, the client’s credit is a dynamic item that changes over periods, and this share of the NPL is also changing. What do I think here? If I go for one example, let's say that a new member of the administration comes to the bank, where the share of poor loans, for example, was more than 30%, is said to be high above the Slovenian average, with the only goal of reducing this share by 10%. It also succeeds, and under this law it could be inappropriate for the members of the administration to be reinstated because he worked in a bank that has an over-average share of bad loans. In short, what do I have to say here? In order to make more sense than it is proposed in the law, I would like to look at the dynamic definition of changing bad loans, in order to look at the growth of the NPL in a certain period in the bank, when a member, for example, acted in that bank, and then this growth would be compared to the growth of the NPL in the banking system during the same period. If, for example, this growth was three times faster than the growth of the NPL in the banking system, then it would be likely to conclude that something was wrong in this bank with the management of the credit policy, otherwise it might be concluded that it is only a response to trends from the economy through customers in the banking portfolio. What I would also warn is about the same NPL indicator, the NPL indicator itself. It has already been said – 90 days late from the due date. We can see that this NPL is quite a substitute for banks themselves – even in Banka Slovenije reports – with another indicator by definition of the European Banking Authority, this is an NPE indicator, where 90 days of restructuring claims are included in addition to these delays, i.e. those that were NPLs, which are considered to be relevant for restructuring and are already being repaid on a regular basis. Maybe that's the thought. These are my main concerns as to how; if we were to consider such a way of introducing into marriage, it would still be worth considering. If I conclude slowly, I can conclude that the new ZBAN and the Bank of Slovenia guidelines and other acts issued by the Bank of Slovenia in the field of fit and proper extend the scope of the assessment of eligibility, the suitability of candidates, where the candidate's comprehensive operation in the bank in the past is also assessed in the area of credit operations, credit operations and, for example, other risks which are equally important and I have already said something about this. Also, Banka Slovenije may at any time initiate a re-assessment procedure, when new facts are identified with a member of the Board or a member of the Supervisory Board, this re-assessment in the event of new Banka Slovenije's new facts shall also be carried out on a regular basis. Here I must also point out that the withdrawal of the authorisation of members of the management board or members of the supervisory board is an administrative procedure where it is necessary to be very precise about the reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisation, which in practice means that in a particular case it is necessary to demonstrate non-compliance with the rules and not just some collective responsibility as would have been in the case of the NPL indicator as proposed in this law. Here I would like to conclude, look forward to further discussion. The topic is important, and I'm definitely not rejecting it. But it may still be worth talking about, which has already been exposed by New Slovenia, especially why this law has occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Jernej Rotovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! First of all, I will thank my colleagues who have worked very hard to write this law, including all the experts and financiers involved. What's the point? It is certainly the purpose of our law to improve the management and supervision of banks. There is no need to explain why this is necessary, we all know about the 4 billion-dollar bank hole, we all know that no one has ever been responsible for it, and we all know that there are objective reasons and also very subjective or clientelistic or other reasons for this bank hole. Since the bankers are the custodians of our assets, the managers of our assets, we certainly can't care who does the job. Therefore, we should make every effort to find good solutions. And that was our intention, to find good solutions. You obviously turned down the Nobel Prize winner. Although I personally do not know him or his work, I trust those who are familiar with this area and have therefore proposed these appropriate solutions. And although Cankar also wrote about social hardships and injustices and also Preshern, I certainly trust this expert and Nobel laureate more than Bertolt Brecht, whom I highly respect as a playwright. That's why I don't think we should throw everything in the same basket. Colleague Weber was talking about the fact that credits are not now being granted, that it's still a bank spasm. I hear a lot about that when I visit companies. Why? Because they may not be able to assess which projects are the ones that deserve or which are perspective and which make sense to credit and which do not. And when I listen to entrepreneurs about how they presented their project to another bank, which is not Slovenian, and soon received a loan – following a very fast procedure, because the bank saw a perspective in this project – then I am not surprised that there is a bank spasm with us. Since it is also necessary to know how to assess, it is also a professional decision to take, of course, a partial risk. But in the past, we know that loans were granted differently. Not based on estimates, not on someone's professional evaluation of whether a project has a perspective, but based on knowledge, clienteleism and so on. We'll hear more about this from a colleague of ours who reads folders and knows a lot about it. Comrade Trček spoke about the moral reasons behind the proposal of our law. Of course they are. In part, there are moral reasons, as it is immoral conduct that has also led us to have such a large bank hole. Immoral behavior in lending to friendly connections. These are moral or moral reasons, so we also propose strict criteria and not unjustifiable, because we know that this coalition has also been appointed to the supervisory councils of people with rich banking experience, but who have unfortunately also helped to make a bank hole. Therefore, we have specifically analyzed this part or set specific criteria for these cases. Besides everything else, which is already in force. The lady from the Ministry of Finance said that she was also a flaw because the treatment of candidates was unequal. Please – are all candidates treated equally now? I think political affiliation is still the main criterion. So now we can't talk about how all candidates are treated equally. And here again we can ask whether the owner – the country – of our largest banks has really held members of the boards and supervisory councils responsible. I think the 4-billion-dollar bank hole is a clear answer to the fact that this setup wasn't responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mr. Jernej Vrtovec and Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	The banking system — and the people operating in it — is a special system. Perhaps in this introduction I would answer the questions raised by Mr Pogačnik. In New Slovenia, we do not want to make this banking system an exclusive system. This means that only those already operating within the banking system can occupy the highest functions within this system. But our solution also allows for duality. On the one hand, that the highest functions are advanced by those already within the system, and also by those who come out of the system. Of course, for these two groups we also apply different rules for checking suitability. For people who have acted in certain positions already within this banking system, it seems reasonable to apply the criteria of how much they were responsible for creating bad claims. These things are measurable, banks need to report on these things, there are very precise reports, Banka Slovenije needs to be informed about these things, and other European banks need to do the same. And based on these data, it is very easy to make an objective assessment of how an individual contributed to bad claims. Our claim is that if someone was responsible for making a bad claim, then this person can no longer occupy the largest places in the banking system. Pika. Of course, there are reasons why he can no longer meet them. Because his work apparently led to bad judgment and risk. There are also certain variations, and therefore the formula is written using some mean value. This applies to those within the system. For those who come out of the system, however, this criterion does not apply. Ambassador Pogačnik sees a problem in this, we don't see it. If I try to visualize, say, in some sports area where this can be used without a problem, I'll give you an example, say, Formula 1. In Formula 1, a driver responsible for a serious accident that has caused a serious accident due to his malicious action may prevent the organizer of these races from competing in certain races in the next season. He can forbid it. At the same time, a new racer and a new racer can enter these races in the new season. So there are, of course, differences in the assessment of appropriateness and accountability for people within the system and the differences between those coming out of the system. So that those who are problematic about why these bad claims are taken into account only for those who come from the banking system, but not for others, but for me and the parliamentary group see no problem in this, many other organisations and things are arranged in a similar way, but there are no problems. However, let me make it clear that all these people – within the system outside the system – are subject to all the things already provided for by law. Slovenia has reached a sad figure that our banking system has already been rehabilitated twice, the last recovery in 2013 cost us 2 000 500 euros per head. If anything, at least the citizens are interested that we are talking about these matters in this house, trying to bring those responsible before the time of justice. Many times in these halls we talk about how this was possible in Iceland, how these things are going elsewhere, but it has been three years since we have seen practically nothing happen in these three years. And it is normal for people to develop some anger, some discontent, because they see that justice is not enough, that despite their bad work some can continue to walk peacefully in Slovenia – even more, they run for very important and well-paid positions. In such circumstances, of course, we cannot create any climate that will be positive, which will be directed in this direction, so that this country moves forward. Those who plead that our banking crisis was responsible for a natural disaster or, as it is called, the global economic crisis are not. Here Zoran Jankovic is right when he says that many things depend on leadership. And unfortunately, the Slovenian banks in state ownership were run extremely poorly. The crisis was the same for all, for privately owned banks and for publicly owned banks. Only the state-owned were operating in a very questionable way. In the Banking Investigative Commission, reports were on how millions of dollars were negotiated on vampires, how on credit committees this matter went on without discussion. However, when natural persons want to get to some credit to solve a housing problem, a thousand proofs, pledges, such or other insurance policies, in short, one set of problems. If I finish, look, we've been waiting three years. Since we have been waiting for 3 years and nothing happens, at the end of this year we have come up with a package of several laws to prosecute banking crime and propose what others are just saying. We have proposed laws that provide for special courts for the prosecution of banking crime, special prosecutorial departments and, in particular, qualified prosecutors. But we are also proposing this law, which is before you today, to sharpen staffing for the highest places in the banking system. And I would like to see that, when concrete action occurs, the majority in this House would not lose their hands. We all agree in our words that it is necessary to end this, even on social networks, there are many things to say when it is necessary to vote, and then the deadline is put to rest in some way. We have had cases of SDH, where even the biggest anti-privatisation fighters have shuddered, even those who fight the most against the sale of Slovenian companies to foreigners have not supported the opposition proposal so that they should not sell these companies to postal collectors or that we should check first what the new potential owner actually has. So much for this fair fight - just words. And we wish that we not only get angry and talk about the banking system here, but we want to take concrete action. And this marriage that is before you today is one of the possibilities. Already in the introduction to the position of the Group of Members, I have said that we do not claim to know and know everything and that we are ready to make any further improvements, to complement. And since today is the first consideration of this law, we probably rightly expect this law to continue its course if it is the desire of all of us to pursue banking crime. I strongly hope and wish that our colleagues from the SDS will join us in this fight against banking crime, because otherwise I can only be sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Jožef Horvat. Procedural? Procedurally, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	Dear President, I just want you to warn my colleague Tonin, because this statement is now, and I think it is far from correct. To pressure the SDS to support this amendment of the law if we want to prosecute banking crime Dear colleague Tonin, tell me what this amendment of your bill has to do with banking crime. [[…]] What does that have to do with anything? I suggest you apologize to the Slovenian Democratic Party here. Because I think that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the party in this House that has done the most to prosecute banking crime. And I am also convinced that Comrade Logar is successfully leading the investigative commission, along with the other members. But you're doing acts here that have nothing to do with it, and I think, my respectable colleague Tonin, that's incorrect. To pressure the Slovenian Democratic Party to support your amendment of the law by operating on the word banking crime and to condition that your changes are supported, otherwise the SDS does not support banking crime, but I think it is extremely incorrect. Give me one article of this amendment of yours and a bill on banking that speaks of banking crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	Yeah, there's no need for procedural. First, I must conclude that the abuse was procedural in order to be a debate. You are later listed as a debater and could actually say the same thing. I believe that it is procedurally directed against the fact that this was not procedural. Would you like to make a procedural use of the matter? I can give you my word for procedural, no problem. So, procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	If I have correctly understood, the procedural proposal by Mr Pogačnik was to apologize to the SDS Group. I just want to warn him that he didn't listen to me properly. I didn't say that SDS isn't trying to prosecute banking crime, but I said I wanted them to join us at this point because otherwise I would be sad. This issue, which is now on the agenda, speaks of the need to make the system so that the highest places in the banking system do not come to the people responsible for the bad operation of banks. And that has to do with banking crime. Given that Commissioner Pogačnik has already moved from New Slovenia, from the SDS, I hope that this debate does not mean that he is moving to the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Okay, now you've both abused procedure, so that we've cleared things up at least at this point, I hope. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the word, then prepare for Mr Luka Mesec and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Who's to blame for the bank hole we've been saving the taxpayers? System? Who? People. People, then, with names and surnames. The key thing is that these same people haven't been responsible for anything in the last three years. Moreover, these same people – at least this way last year we were impressed when the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Authority or the SDH administration appointed them supervisors of the largest Slovenian bank – were given a chance in the past, despite their work in the past. And here was the reason that New Slovenia brought this law into the parliamentary procedure at the beginning of this year. In the beginning, the government gave us support, you know, or the government wouldn't make a hybrid law. Hybrid, same law to this law of ours. We can say, a summary of the idea with which it came in the parliamentary bench, literally, to the committee and overturned our proposal and implemented its proposal. So, the government has agreed with this law of New Slovenia. Why this marriage? This law is because, based on experience, we know that the system we know today when people are being recruited into supervisory councils and bank administrations does not work. It doesn't work like it's supposed to. And this law is essentially one of the filters. The purpose of this law is to combat banking crime. It's a fight. Marco, do you know why? Because of this, for example, bad credits – Urška Ban said earlier about how bad credit would be created, and I recommend that she go with her colleague Krajance to the bunker sometime, and she will see that bad loans are also a matter of corruption, clientism, dishonesty. So, with our poor credit criteria, those who have created bad loans – this law makes it impossible for these people to sit on boards and control banks at any time. That's the key. We're closing the door to dishonest people in a completely pragmatic legislative way. At the same time, the criterion for poor claims is that we should get over-average people who have proven to be good at bank administrations in the past as successful. To get them. However, we exclude Gedrich, Macuha, Fisherman and other companions who created the first and second bank hole. One gentleman – I will not name him, a waste of time – has damaged the New Ljubljana Bank in the past and was then, for example, appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank last year. These people would have closed the door to the New Ljubljana Bank by means of this law. And that the current system does not actually work is clear evidence of last year's recruitment of the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, which has had consequences. Look at him. He had consequences. The same board of directors has replaced the board of directors. Is that right? Did he replace the office? And then, before there was a decision on the suitability of these candidates, the licensing by the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia, these candidates, these gentlemen, all three resigned. Yes, what would be the shame if these people replaced the administration, stayed in positions, and then the European Central Bank found that they did not meet the conditions? You'd be a bum, wouldn't you? Of course, they drew first, and after they had done what they might have been ordered by politics, they concluded their mandate prematurely. The key is what kind of messages we give to people. So this coalition agrees with this domestic staff that we know of, is said to be colliding with one and the same people within the banking system. One and the same people. This coalition therefore agrees with these bad practices. Well, that's not the only case. It is also an example when you rejected the proposal that licensing should also be needed for members of the Supervisory Boards. I really don't see one valid reason why wishes for better, greater control must always be rejected. New Slovenia has responded to the prosecution of banking crime. Here I will say that the first answer in the National Assembly is certainly the Logar Commission, which works better than all investigative bodies at the same time, this commission, which is really breaking the ice in the area of bank crime prosecution. In Novi Slovenija we introduced this law, which is the first filter, as well as the law establishing a specialised court, judges who would deal exclusively with this banking crime, as well as the law on new prosecutors, the specialized prosecutor for the prosecution of banking crime. I also hope to support the coalition. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Let's get the mags ready. Dušan Verbič, and then we move on to the conclusion, where he gets the first word from the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. With the work advocated by Nova Slovenija, I also agree, only this has nothing to do with this proposal and with the amendments to the law they have put into the parliamentary procedure. Who appoints members of the Governing Council? The Assembly. The Assembly shall be composed of shareholders. Who appoints members of the board? The control world. The one who appointed the congregation earlier means the shareholders. I am convinced that it is primarily the responsibility of the owners, whom they appoint to the Supervisory Board. The problems arise only in banks managed by the government of Mira Cerar, a party to the coalition and SDH. Do we have other problems with the other banks? We cannot see in Parliament, honourable proponents, Members of Parliament and Members of the New Slovenia, in law only on state banks, but we must see banking as a whole. We cannot because the government is weak because SDH has not successfully appointed members of the Supervisory Board, now we can change legislation for everyone. However, I agree that it is necessary to amend the Banking Act, including in other matters. As I said in my position earlier, there probably isn't a month in the National Assembly when we don't have banking on the wallpaper. But we do have it for the management of state banks. This comparison that my colleague Tonin said about Formula 1, I don't know, I can't buy because he doesn't. The owner is the one who is responsible for this, but not that then someone who is, I don't know so much, that if I had my own company, I probably wouldn't have named someone who has bad results from the past, because he's already so aware and so responsible. [[…]] This is primarily the responsibility of the owners. We sometimes deal with some problems that are not problems at all, or we do not solve the problem in the right place. At that time, the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding should resign, then the management of the Slovenian State holding company with the fiasco they had in Nova Ljubljanska Bank should resign if you ask me. That would be the right solution. But we're dealing with and making laws, and I don't know what kind of provisions. We have redefined laws in Slovenia, after 400 articles, but the result is always the same after all – responsibility must be found in operators. When the baby's born, we can't just put her in bed to be a lawyer. We can't even throw numbers into marriage. That's my personal opinion, and here's 90 of us to decide. But I cannot make any proposals for such amendments to the Banking Act. But I've already mentioned the reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, and then we come to the conclusion when you get the word of a representative of the government and a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Once again, representatives of the executive branch, colleagues and colleagues! Before I start my debate, I am obliged to listen carefully to all the debaters, but a little bit if I can call it that because I have enough time, almost – in some mild form – replicas to individual debaters. I'd just like to get started. He would start his so-called replica with a statement given by his respected colleague Marko Pogačnik. I think that both the drafters of this law and all the members of the National Assembly are not aware of what he said. The fact is that the law applies to all legal entities in the Republic of Slovenia. Today, as I have heard, the talk is mainly about the bank hole, about responsibility and in some ways I cannot agree with the course of the debate – except for the last part of the appointed Member who said nicely that there are 14 banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia, and of these 14 are only 3 which are state-owned, and of these, we know in the State Property Management Strategy, we are probably very close to reducing this number. We cannot in Slovenian law rape legal persons, owners of legal entities, with some very narrow legal provision, because two decades of state-owned banks have been catastrophic, at least now. More definitely in the future. Every time or every time there is a discussion of the comparisons between Iceland and Slovenia, I will stress the same thing again, and I must start by doing so. No comparisons between Iceland and the Republic of Slovenia for the resolution of the bank hole, since in Iceland they had a legal framework before the bank hole was created, according to defined crime, bad banking practice. In Slovenia – I would not talk about it. And what is crucial is that the Icelandic government, at the time of the onset of the situation, pushed all state-owned banks into bankruptcy. The result is that today citizens, citizens from the money invested in those banks receive even some symbolic income. And with us, the government goes to recapitalisation at that time, but it's a story to itself. As for the seriousness, because at least by the proposer it was said that it was not the right will and similar – to come to the bottom I have to admit here, I strongly object to this, because responsibility for a 5 billion-dollar bank hole With all seriousness in the National Assembly where it was elected, the parliamentary commission of inquiry is working very intensively. [[…]] [[…]] The evidence of this is also the interim report we have received recently, and I must admit that I expect a significant shift in the detection process, although we can only talk about political responsibility. But I must admit that the decisions or conclusions of this parliamentary commission can be very encouraging for all of us. As far as the frame-up is concerned. The perception of the coalition and so on, in cases, I suppose, although it was not concrete, in the largest bank – I can say that I personally distance myself from this type of recruitment and I hope that there will be as few such bad cases as possible. What really needs to be highlighted is what the proposaler has pointed out – all of these people must be put in prison. A very popular political rhetoric in this National Assembly, because we know that not only is there an intensive debate over the past two years, but there are also certain activities in the National Assembly, but such procedures are exclusively the powers of law enforcement authorities. The D.A., the N.U.U., the court. On this occasion, I must remind once again of the distinguished proposaler – I believe that he was also present when we discussed on one of the parent committees two years ago the reasons for the bank hole where Mr Kozina, a well-known admirer, was present. And what did he then tell us as parliamentarians very nicely? The great evil is that — even the present state of responsibility for the bank hole — was done in the National Assembly. And even told me why. Because criminal laws did not define bad banking practices as a crime. And what's going on today? That those who are responsible in one way or another abuse the procedural reasons for delaying matters. But I think it's a matter of time before this moves in the direction we're all looking for. And for the end of this work, before I begin the debate, I must also touch on the presentation of the honourable Member of the Magi. Alenke Bratusek. Why are we talking about this today? I believe that one of the key reasons is the decision of the then government, which simply supported private banks in 2013. And I think there's not enough talk about that. Here on this pay phone, he calls for us to stand together and resolve the situation. Oftentimes they fly unjustifiablely, as one would say, words at the expense of the largest customer — SMC. We weren't even there at the time. Expecting in a year, two miraculous conversions – I think this is completely unrealistic. And I have to admit, it's strange, if I may say so, the behavior of the one that caused private owners to literally support themselves — if I'm talking about bank owners here. For this resulted in the burden of the taxpayers, who, of course, felt a great deal. And just on the part of the proponents and those who talk a lot on every occasion, even in this proposal to amend the law on the bank hole, there is no word. If I finish this piece, I hope that this part will be in the debate at some point, because not only is the outcome being solved, but let us also have a cause in front of our eyes. I would have moved on to the opening part of my debate, as long as I still have time left. I can say that I will only define myself on the proposal of the law, because I believe that the subject of the bank hole has been on many other committees, and I am sure it will continue. In my debate, I do not want to negate the concrete content of this bill's proposal, because the so-called promise theory, which is written down, I believe that it is a matter of experts, experts and, above all, those who have a decisive influence in the management and management of the banks themselves. Because as a politician, I don't think I'm that big, if I can call it that, I know how to be a credible advocate of this theory or its opponent. For this reason, I can only say that in this kind of debate I can touch this content a little bit, but I cannot really define myself as to the meaning and implementation of the law itself. What the applicant wrote in the law itself – I must admit that it is right to read it, because today it has not been by the discussers or by the other special weights, but I think it is crucial. The aim of the proposer is to improve the arrangements for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board or the management of banks based on the promise theory developed by the Nobel Prizewinner for Economics. I must admit that I have, I would say, listened very much to this goal in the following paragraph, which is set out in point 2.3 of the Main Solution. And what is particularly in the eyes of a person is that this proposal of the law "wants to introduce a new eligibility criterion for appointment to supervisory councils of banks by which they can be appointed", emphasis, "only candidates who have shown their over-average success in the past according to the index of the share of so-called "bad loans". I must admit that I have been here in some way — not using the word confusion — is surprising, especially in a negative way. Why? I have created a picture that the New Slovenia Group – on the basis of contributions and debates by Members – is very well equipped with the approach of corporate governance. Of course, it's about the management function both in the economy and in financial institutions, even now that we're talking about banks. For the more human being these two messages, the essence of the proposal of the law is more of an impression that it is more a message to the public, that in the New Slovenia Group there are truly excellent knowledgeers of the theory and practice of bank management. [[…]] I point out, I'm moving away from the bank hole. I am talking only about this proposal that we have on the table. Because one is academic, if I may call it academic or scientific, where there is nothing to dispute. All I can say is, say hello to be able to deal with this kind of, say, academic product. But when we talk about the system of banks of financial institutions, the key issue is practical value or utility. In this bill, I can only say that there is only one emptiness, as far as this kind of theory relates to practice. I have a fundamental question here at the outset for the proposalr. Can he tell which bank – I doubt that in Slovenia, or will I be pleasantly surprised, or in those banks where we like to follow our example – this kind of theory of so-called improvement of the conditions in the choice of candidates, the theory of promises, is established? In this regard, I must admit that I have received or asked myself a number of questions, from which it logically continues, how some good or excellent scientific work, which is even rewarded, is to be implemented into this Slovenian space that we know of, and I think that most believe that catastrophic management and staffing of state-owned banks has been in place in recent decades. I would like to mention some of the questions raised with regard to the implementation of this proposal. It is a fact that we forget – and I also predict a proposaler in search of a better tomorrow, a better approach – that in the Republic of Slovenia, until the arrival of foreign owners of the bank, they have operated in state ownership, except for the rare exceptions that have come with fresh capital and have set up banks. But we do not talk about them, because the private owner has no such problem as the State of the Republic of Slovenia has in relation to its banks. I'm back on the decade. In the Republic of Slovenia, poor claims were literally classified or categorised in a certain way before the transposition of European directives — even with the entry into the European Union. I don't want to do any kind of injustice here, but we're focused again on those banks that have resulted in recapitalisation. The fact is that all this kind of classification of loans or loans – we know very well that most things prior to the transposition of individual directives, linked to banking, were generally classified or categorised into Group A, B, maybe C. Unfortunately, also the parliamentary commission, present or former, notes that a large majority, especially those with very large amounts of granted loans, were in the reprogramming process. Which means that when the matter was looked a little bit more closely, it was found that the kind of misleading classification was also in the cooperation of all those actors who were key to correcting a realistic or objective assessment. Finally, such categorizations had to be reclassified to that objective and realistic state. As a result, write-offs were claims that were almost never touched by anyone in the National Assembly, even in return, and in 2013, as is known, recapitalisation and transfer of bad claims to the DUTB. What is also directly linked to this membership, if I may call it, administrations or supervisory councils, I miss and ask whether the proposer has also deepened something in the transmission of this so-called promise theory, what this means for Slovenia, for example, a banking employment space. We must be aware that all members of the boards have competitive clauses as far as I know them, as well as members of the Supervisory Board in their employment contracts. And it was the competitive clauses that kept them from allowing individual carriers — and the highest ones — to move to competitive banks. This is not a matter of three months, as we have been talking recently, that this is also the time limit for the most responsible places or positions of state ownership on individual entities, but that competitive prohibitions apply for a number of years, depending on the position and also the established experts. This is said, even in the implementation of such a theory, then we ask ourselves how much more domestic Slovenian experts are available if they are not integrated into the system, let's say, co-responsibility in the creation of the bank hole, and those who were not and have competitive clauses. It's just that this frame is almost gone. As for the proposed solution of the NSI Group to open up, as has been said many times, to the private sector in the Republic of Slovenia and even to private property, I must admit that I find this proposal or position a bit unusual, as I estimate that this proposal makes it impossible for the owner of the bank to identify the person who trusts him — in this case — to lead him through the administration or the supervisory board. Why do I think this way, especially about what I said before, which is very clearly written under the main solutions, and I will repeat again – at least this part of the sentence: “by which only candidates can be appointed”. Here I will now return to that opening sentence I had, and in some ways I supported the position of my colleague from the SDS Group: “These proposals regulate the legal matter for all legal entities in the State of the Republic of Slovenia.” And once again, today we have 14 banks with different properties – especially private property – and 3 stores. And this is simply one of the key reasons why I cannot support such initiatives or proposals on my own, because we are interfering, literally, with such a legal arrangement in that fundamental right of the owner to decide for himself who he will appoint or recruit. And now through the marriage mechanisms, it is really contradictory to me in relation to this fundamental truth. When we talk about this so-called – let's say we can't avoid it – bank holes, despite all of this in these debates, we're not touching much – because in Slovenia the entire banking system is not so bad! But all we do is go around state-owned banks. And I also have to admit here that I am a critic of various debates, because we are either ignoring or in some way underestimating the role of those banks, which are perfectly normal, working as well as in neighbouring countries. And through the prism of only the problems of state banks, legal entities in the Republic of Slovenia, at least in the field of financial institutions – they are not interested. However, they often feel that this kind of debate and the negativeness of this segment are also on them, which is not right. Finally, what do I miss or what is it that motivates a person to look a little deeper at the contents of the proposal itself? In the proposal itself, you wrote down the principle: "the bill follows the principle of economy and the principle of responsibility". I must admit that I simply cannot be satisfied with this for a completely different reason, which I think should be mentioned in this context at least a little. You know that we have adopted the Banking Act 2 in the National Assembly, and I must admit that I am pleased that we were able to install certain things at that time, especially for those who are most crucial and responsible in the management or corporate management of banks. This law is governed by a stricter principle, the principle not only of a good master, but also of a careful expert. And this is what is a real journey to change things for the better in the Slovenian banking area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. The word has magic. Miranda Groff Ferjančič, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. I would just like to highlight what I have already said in the opening statement. The criteria for assessing the eligibility of candidates for members of the Board of Supervisory Boards of Banks shall be laid down by the Banking Act, the Guidelines of the European Banking Regulator and the Bank of Slovenia sub-legislative acts. The current regulation of Article 38 and Article 53 of the Banking Act, and on its basis the adoption of legal rules, taking into account the standards and guidelines laid down by the European Banking Regulator, provides a framework for assessing the eligibility of candidates for members of the Bank's administrations and supervisory board, which also allows for due account of the past activities and operations of the candidates, including their contribution and responsibility for the formation and treatment of non-performing claims in banks. The regulatory opinion shall ensure the examination and conclusion of the suitability of the individual candidate and his responsibility for the formation and treatment of these non-performing claims in banks. I would also like to point out that the rules adopted and enforced provide that within five days of the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board, both the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank should be informed. An ex post independent assessment of the regulator shall then be carried out on the basis of a decision of the Bank of Slovenia to prove the conditions for the appointment of a member to the administrative authority. As a result of these activities, it is also possible to prohibit the performance of a member of the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, for your debate. At least that's what I'd like them to understand that this law and I have written with experts for purely good purposes – I hope that at least this is present with you – that we have not written this law in order to frame someone. Of course, the laws or provisions themselves are technically complicated, perhaps even incomprehensible to the public, but we wanted to really do what we say; we learn from mistakes. Of course we were talking about a bank hole. The bank hole and the repair of the bank hole is the past, but in order to never happen to us again, we have prepared this banking law, which is, of course, linked to the recruitment of key authorities of each corporation, including banks, supervisory councils and members of administrations. Of course, we know which entities this law is written for, which entities are subject to; it applies to all banks in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, it is also understandable that we first think about state-owned banks, and we have the biggest problems there. Why? Because we don't have the right owner. That is why we are talking so much about privatisation, about the withdrawal of the country from the economy; we have the wrong world. Not only in the banking sector, but also in others, there is a case in the economic sector that the economy is withdrawing from the country. Today, on the Committee on European Union Affairs, we have already talked about one very well-known Slovenian brand, which has withdrawn at least from production in Italy; this is not a topic at present. Here we do not have this power, this corruption, this political will to make a reform in the heads, where socialist processes are still ongoing, that everything must be stately. All state regulated and controlled. And next year, I will draw attention to the European Commission document, which has the label – because you already know it because I repeat it so many times – SA.33229, where the European Commission allowed Slovenia to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank at EUR 1.55 billion, but – look – with a catalogue of commitments. The government, it doesn't matter which one, the Slovenian government has committed itself to implementing this catalogue of commitments. One of these commitments is the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank until 31. 12. 2017. This document, which I am talking about, has a date of 18 December 2013 – it is said that it will take 3 years on Sunday – but it is only one year before this commitment. And what's our problem? What are we afraid of? The first person responsible for running this country said that it is not the right time to privatise the New Ljubljana Bank, which means that the state will still hold the New Ljubljana Bank, and the state will recruit, the government will deploy – how does the government staff? Politically. Each – ours, yours, tops, bottoms, whatever. Is that right? And my colleague Verbič asked us the right question to tell us where these mechanisms are built in which banks. The answer is: in all those, Comrade Verbič, where they have a low proportion of non-performing claims, where these mechanisms or those which so effect are embedded in their acts. The answer is very simple. Unfortunately, we have to write this matter down in law because it's state property. And, unfortunately, the Banking Act applies to all banking entities in this country. When it comes to staffing, if I am the owner, if you, any, the owner, of course, are to see if any candidate has ever been in the banking system, how long it has been and what its results are, or at the time when he was, say, a member of the administration, some XY bank had a large share of unprofitable claims – that is, if they come from that time. If I were the owner, I would look at this and to this candidate if it came from a very bad period of a bank, I would not let him be a member of the supervisory board of another bank or a member of the administration. It's perfectly logical. However, in order for subjective recruitment to be eliminated, we have written down these formulas here if you want. The proportion of non-permissible claims, the proportion – probably worse to see, so I will also read these slides We have already told first what is an intolerable claim, I don't think I need to repeat it. [[…]] However, the proportion of non-performing claims of a bank is the ratio between the value of the non-performing claims of that bank and the value of all claims of the bank. And now we are going to look for an indicator – a finding and comparison with the Slovenian banking system first – and find out the proportion of non-performable claims of all Slovenian banks. This is calculated as the ratio, i.e. fraction, in the counter the value of non-performable claims of all Slovenian banks and in the denominator the value of all claims of all Slovenian banks. And if the proportion of non-performing claims in the bank where this candidate worked is lower than the share of non-performing claims in all Slovenian banks, he received a green hook. But since we are in the European Monetary Union, we are moving on. It's a complete picture. A colleague of Urska Ban, president of the Committee on Finance, highlighted some relevant cases. What if someone dies and this creates an unsustainable claim? Of course they are, but we're looking at a complete picture. I guess, for God's sake, there's probably no inadmissible claims in some bank because half the borrowers died, right? I guess it's fine, thank God, a small share. We are now going to the area of the European Monetary Union and we are seeing the share of the non-performing claims of all banks in the European Monetary Union. This is the ratio, the fraction: in the numerator the value of the non-performing claims of all banks in the European Monetary Union, in the denominator the value of all claims of all banks in the European Monetary Union. And if again the proportion of the non-performing claims of the bank in which the candidate worked is lower than the share of non-performing claims in the entire European Monetary Union, the candidate gets the second green hook and goes forward. What's the issue here now? All these numbers exist, ladies and gentlemen, because we checked. That can be calculated. I believe that there is a lot of material and that everyone could not go into all these things either, but I would like more if you would allow me, dear colleague Urški Ban to explain She was dealing with, of course, people who are, I don't know, there at the second level, third level who approve credits within the credit committees and so on. [[…]] Yes, of course, all of this is true, but the policy of the bank, the rules of the bank, not least how credit is granted, but certainly the management of the bank and perhaps the supervisory board of the surface. That's why, of course, we don't deal in this law with that, I don't know, middle management, with some third level of bank management. Look, at the November meeting of the Prime Minister, I asked precisely about our package of so-called banking laws or laws that would allow for better staffing in the future, which would allow easier and faster search for bank hole drills. I have told the President that the amendment of the Banking Act proposes the introduction of a criterion that would prevent persons responsible for the over-average share of bad loans from meeting their positions in banking administrations and supervisory boards. Then, in the new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, we propose the establishment of a specialized branch for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the Special Prosecutor's Office and their staffing support, and in the new Law on Courts, we propose the establishment of special judicial departments for the treatment of banking crime. The improved conditions for prosecution of banking crimes are crucial for us, the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats. I asked the Prime Minister if he would support any of the solutions contained in the law enforcement package and better staffing for future members of the boards and members of the supervisory boards. Of course, the Prime Minister did not directly answer this question. But he said the following. He says that "the effective prosecution of banking crime and in this context the investigation of the so-called bank hole is certainly our government's commitment". That's right, Prime Minister. "I believe that's what we all want. In order for this effective work to be done as soon as possible, you, Members of the National Assembly, are also doing important work here when you are adopting the legislation proposed by the Government and some other measures." Well, he may have made a small mistake here. We also adopt legislation or we can adopt legislation that we propose because we have parliamentary democracy. In fact, we have also followed and followed in some way the long-standing call of the President of the Government, who said that solutions should be sought. We're looking for solutions. At the end of this implementation, I expect that the impression that we have prepared this solution in good faith will be consulted by relevant experts who know something in this area, and in some ways we expect your support and then in another reading of the matter we will improve. We are extremely pleased that they are similar to the law, almost identical, but this one is wider and slightly improved, supported by colleague Mark Pogačnik, who has engaged here, well engaged in the debate. Of course I do, but everyone is free in their decision, even this time support. Because, see, we are particularly concerned about this political recruitment. If I were the owner today, I would – now that I am talking about Mark, who I know very well – without any further consideration, my colleague Mark has appointed as chairman of the board of directors or the chairman of the supervisory board of the bank whose owner he would be. Because what he was doing in his business career, he was always doing extremely well. It's just one case now. I could've mentioned someone else, but we don't know each other that much. One more thing to return to my question at this meeting. When we in our government wrote the Law on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability in 2012, we also wrote a very important provision in Article 33. It was probably because of Article 33 that the referendum threatened this law, because many began to shake their pants, you know. This Article 33 in the first and second paragraphs is very important. Now I was wondering when I was asking the mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman, Minister of Finance, how is this Article 33 being implemented? First of all, the first paragraph, which states that the management board of the DUTB, the Bank's Claims Management Company, must, on official duty, write down the allegations that I am direct, for the thugs it identifies. Mag. Mateja Vraničar answers: “So far, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims has reported 57 irregularities to the National Investigation Office. At the same time, the DUTB prepared a total of 6 complaints, which were forwarded to the General Police for further investigation. Within the DUTB there is a system of announcements, so we cannot assign all these activities to the members of the Management Board precisely, but the management of the DUTB is sure to ensure that those who are obliged by internal rules to carry out such announcements also fulfil their duty." So it's a duty. Whether these 57 announcements are enough, it's the right number, I don't know. Whether six complaints or only six complaints are sufficient, I do not know, so I suggested that the debate in the National Assembly on this subject would be the implementation of Article 33 of the ZUKSB, but there were only 19 votes of support. Besides, I'm surprised at this. Of course, if the Management Board of the Banking Claims Management Company does not carry out this duty, the members should be relieved. I also asked the Minister of Finance, who was the first to ask: “The Ministry of Finance, within its supervisory powers, has not seen the case of leaving the obligations laid down in Article 33 of the Law, so we have not proposed the dismissal of any member of the Administrative Board for the purpose of leaving this duty.” Okay. I believe that. Now, is it really the perfect management of the Bank Claims Management Company, that is to say those responsible for controlling it. I sincerely want this content, the bank hole, the prosecution of crime and banking crime, and so on, to put it off the agenda once in a while. Of course, that will certainly not be the case earlier, and we will surely be discussing this for years, until the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank takes place. I hope and wish that perhaps in the next year, which is the key right for this process, we will be united here, or we will say again: Mah, the European Commission – who is this? These are some biricks from Brussels, and we won't listen to them! Before yesterday, my colleague Ursko and I had a conversation with the Director-General of the Financial Stability Directorate, which does not cover the area of competitiveness, where banks and privatisation belong, and it almost took him away when I asked him how the European Commission would react. He was a breathtaking gentleman who was a remarkable expert and said that the European Commission, at least for the time being, does not have this information to enable Slovenia to withdraw from its commitment, this is the privatisation of NLB by the end of 2017. This will be for the NLB rescue, believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We've got some time left. Anybody else want to discuss this? Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 20, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 12. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes the 23rd item of the agenda. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law amending public finance law. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable fellow Member and fellow Members! We have also talked a lot about corruption in the previous item of the agenda, and in general this National Assembly is talking a lot about corruption, and it is particularly looking for ways to suppress this corruption. We will certainly agree that corruption must be suppressed in the field, or where there is a chance that corruption is, and above all that there are people who can learn this corruption. If I asked you or asked citizens and citizens, especially young people, students, students, students, students, students, which word is most specific or characterized by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, that would certainly be corruption. We know such and different stories, such and different malversions, which are taking place in connection with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, more or more I will post later in the debate. If you allow me, why did we propose this law or what we're proposing? We propose an amendment to the ZUJF, which is called the Act on the Balance of Public Finances in Work, which refers to concessions that come from student work. If we picture a student or a student working through a student's work, someone who earns 100 euros net pays 133.74 euros, that's gross. Out of these 133,74 euros, he gets 100 euros net. These EUR 33.74 are paid for concession fees, pension insurance, health insurance and so on. Well, and of these 33.74 euros is a grant fund, a student organisation Slovenia and a student service of 16 euros, of which 3.8 euros in particular is awarded to the Student Organisation of Slovenia – without any invitation, because it states so in the law. In one year, this money is raised between €9 million and €10 million. So the student organisation gets between €9 million and €10 million without any invitation to tender. No call, no responsibility, but we do know what's going on with this money. This money doesn't come into the right hands, it doesn't reach young students and students, students and students. We therefore propose a change in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The change would go in the direction that these 3.8 euros – we say, say, someone who earns 100 euros, say someone who earns 500 euros, is then 19 euros. We suggest that this money be distributed differently. In short, from this concession fee, the SOS receives 23.7 percent, student services receive 23.7 percent, and about 52 percent go to the scholarship fund. We propose that this 23.7 per cent be distributed in a different way: that 10 per cent of this money be received by the Youth Office, that 8 per cent of this money still be received by the Slovenian Student Organisation, that 2 per cent of this money be received directly by the local community students' clubs and that 2 per cent of this money – or 3.7 per cent of the remaining money – be given to the scholarship fund. Taking the number of €9 million, about €9 million, as far as the Student Organisation gets it, would mean the following. Of these €9 million, 42 per cent are awarded to the Youth Office, 43 per cent to the SOS, 16 per cent to the grant fund, and 8 per cent to local clubs. This means: €3.8 million Youth Office, €3.1 million ŠOS, €1.4 million scholarships and €700,000 student clubs. What will this accomplish? We will achieve that money will be more fairly distributed and also more transparently spent. The Youth Office is a umbrella organisation or institution, which is the supervisory body that is watching over the youth sector in this country, has a number of calls, about 100 youth organisations bringing together tens of thousands of young people in our country to receive money from the Youth Office. The SOS still has about a third of the resources that they have now, and above all it is important that we also introduce additional solidarity here, this is called Youth for Youth, which is 1.7 million euros out of these nine goes further to the grant fund and the rest to the student clubs, about 700 000 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Maria Janc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance, the Government adopted an opinion. In this law, the Student Organisation, and also all organisations whose founder is the Student Organisation, is asked to take some of the money away from the students and distribute it among all youth organisations. According to the proposal for a law, the reason for the proposed amendment is that the student organisation is exposed to non-economic treatment of funds and insufficient control over the use of these funds. Initially, it is necessary to clarify that the source, method and purpose of the funding of the Student Organisation was laid down in 1994 by the Law on the Community of Students, which regulates the chapter on funding in the fourth chapter, and in Article 9 of this Chapter deals in detail with all those issues. Notwithstanding any subsequent changes in the amount of the concession fee itself due to economic and public financial circumstances or to the effects on the labour market, the basis of that arrangement has remained unchanged and still stems from the current Law on the Community of Students. The conclusions of the Committee of the National Education, Science, Sport and Youth Council, adopted at its 21st regular meeting on 5 October this year, which called on the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to report to the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues and, together with the general public, to prepare a new Law on the Community of Students and on the activities related to this Committee by the end of this year. On the basis of those conclusions, the working group for the preparation of the new Law on the Community of Students met in November and December. The provision governing the operation of the student community was also considered. It is already agreed with the student organisations that in the new Student Communities Act to ensure the supervision of the operation of the Student Organisation and the transparency of their functioning, provisions will be laid down on the basis of which the SOS will have to act in the manner laid down by the Public Procurement Act, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Access to Public Information. The new Law on the Community of Students will also explicitly stipulate that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia exercises control over the regularity and legality of the use of public funds. Just today, the last meeting of the working group to prepare the Law on the Student Community will be held. The content of all the articles will also be definitively determined at this meeting. On the basis of the above, it should be noted that the conclusions of the Committee of the National Education, Science, Sport and Youth Assembly are being implemented. It should also be noted that the drafters did not explain the methodology or the key to changing the percentage of funding. It also states that the applicants in the material did not explain with which student organisations the bill was coordinated or coordinated. In view of all of the above, we believe that the National Assembly should first adopt the Law on the Community of Students and, on these legal bases, should it prove to be an appropriate solution, amend the provisions of the ZUJF relating to the financing of student organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to a proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Community of Students, which was rejected by the National Assembly at the October session, there is today another opposition proposal for the amendment of the law, which goes into the operation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Let us recall that when considering the proposed amendment to the Student Community Act, the competent committee invited the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to take immediate action to develop the necessary changes in this area and to inform the Committee of the measures by the end of 2016. The decision has not yet been implemented and therefore it is not yet possible to judge the work of the competent ministry on the necessary amendments. Social Democrats from all legal entities, which are organisational, financial or otherwise linked to society, are expected to be subject to the highest standards of economy, transparency and purposeful use of public funds. In particular, this applies to representatives of the social group, from which future leaders of this country are also expected. The student organisation of Slovenia is an important moment in political socialisation, so as a society, we must be particularly sensitive to the anomalies that in the past have undermined confidence in this association. These have shown that high expectations have not been met to the extent expected. With regard to the functioning of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, it is clear that many issues remain inconsistent, in particular in relation to the status, we are reminded of the judgments of the Administrative and Supreme Court, and we cannot go beyond the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption on the urgency of systemic change, which will ensure transparency and the elimination or reduction of corruption risks. The fact is that the organisation and functioning of a student organisation will need to be framed under legal standards, as set out in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the Act on Access to Public Information, the Law on Public Procurement, the Court of Auditors. We therefore expect the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in particular, in the Group of Social Democrats, to prepare the necessary regulatory changes as soon as possible. We expect that these activities of the Student Organisation of Slovenia will be framed in accordance with high moral and ethical standards. In the event that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not carry out this task entrusted to it by the working body of the National Assembly, we will have to satisfy ourselves by partial measures, such as those submitted by opposition parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. All the speakers in front of me used one word, and that's corruption. For a long time, corruption has been a key problem of student organisation in Slovenia, especially the three largest organisations, called the SHOU in Ljubljana, the SHOUM in Maribor and the SHOUP in Primorska. We have been able to monitor and read direct scandalous cases everywhere in recent years. For example, when I was a student, he was very much reflecting the case of a student official who was trying to bribe another student official with 10,000 euros in an envelope. Fortunately, this other student official had enough integrity to be pre-existing because he expected this to happen, he informed the police that he had been arrested on the spot. We saw a student organization in Primorska and Maribor. In Primorsk, long-standing President Sebastián Koklu received several crimes of economic crime, and the organisation is expected to make it easier for as many as 150 000 euros in total in all years. Excesses were no smaller than the privatisations of student services and travel agencies, to the point that student officials went alone, five people, to Canada and spent 25 000 euros from the joint treasury for their trip. After that, we had fictitious contracts, and in one year, we spent as much as EUR 85,000 on research that was never presented to the public, and it was practically public money that students pay from their student work. The crown of corruption is most likely a student campus project. The Ljubljana SHOU purchased land from a former student official for 1.2 million euros, and this former student official bought the same land only a few months earlier at a public auction for 350 thousand euros. Thus, he bought it for 350 000 euros and sold it further to the organisation in which he worked for 1.2 million euros. The additional complication is that this land is now being threatened by the railway route, but despite the fact that all the buildings on this land will be demolished in a short period of time, the SHU in Ljubljana will invest as much as €800 000 in the campus, with 10 per cent of its finances spent annually in the operation of this campus, which is €400,000, with public information not clear what is being done with this money. All the student campus projects are expected to be around 20 this year, but there are clear profits from some former student officials, which amount to over EUR 2 000 700 gross per employee; and the question is what they do for this money. This is how we agree with the initiative. However, I would like to point out that in the United Left a few months ago, we also gave ourselves an initiative to regulate the operation of the Student Organisation, in particular its most important parts, it is said, the three S.H.I.E.L.D. students' organisations. This was our proposal for the Student Community Act, which would finally regulate the situation of these organisations by democratising and establishing supervision in student organisation. On our proposal, student organisations would be given legal personality because the SOS and its members are undoubtedly persons of public law, as they are financed from public funds, in part also directly from the budget. The SSC shall manage a significant amount of public funds as other private funds and shall not comply with the rules and standards applicable in that country to the availability of public funds. We have proposed that the SOS become a taxable person under the Public Information Access Act, that it be applied in a meaningful manner to the Public Procurement Act and that the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act apply mutatis mutandis to business. Regular audits would be carried out by the Court of Auditors. These were concrete suggestions on how to make the organisation transparent, democratic and, above all, forcing it to finally act in the public interest, in the interests of students, not in the interests of student officials, as it has done so far. The proposal was supported by the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Information Commissioner Mojca Prelesnik and the representatives of the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, all this, countless stories, testimony, strong support in the student community, has not convinced the coalition. Apparently, the coalition would rather listen to former and current student officials and postpone our proposal. Therefore, today, when we have before us a proposal prepared by the SDS, we will support this proposal. We will support it, not because we agree with all solutions, but because something has to be done and because we hope that in the second reading we will gather enough understanding to improve the solutions we have in this proposal and find answers to the problems we have been facing for decades on the issue of the Student Organisation. Our view is not that student organisations have too much money. According to the position and view of the United Left, student organisation must be autonomous, it must have sufficient funding, but on the State side we must ensure that zero tolerance for any corruption applies there, and ensure that this organisation works in the interests of students, not in the interests of student officials, as I have already stressed. The division proposed by the SDS is not optimal in our view. The question is whether the Youth Office really distributes money most rationally, and the question is, who would suck on everything there through public calls and try to get an increased share of the funds. On the other hand, we think that the money for student clubs in the current solution is too low, and we are skeptical to delete the article on replacing the decline in the use of concession funds. In addition to the distribution and use of these funds, which are highly controversial, in our view it is necessary to ask how the concession fee is obtained at all. This is about the money that students and students earn in their work. The existing policy of student work, unfortunately, many students more than to study force to work. Above all, those in less wealthy families simply have to work so that they can study at all. This is, on the other hand, the most practical form of work, which is in some ways also unfair competition in the labour market, which is profited from only by parasite brokers, student services, which are privately owned. We would also like to draw attention to this in the United Left, and there remains money that should and could be used in the public interest if we had the political will to arrange it here. If I finish. In the United Left, we will support the proposal, with expectations, as I mentioned, that we will find better solutions in the second reading. The problem of the distribution and management of funds should be addressed through changes to the statutory law and we expect the Ministry of Education to stick to deadlines and to offer a new Law on the Community of Students in public debate by the new year. At the same time, we look forward to finding the best solutions for the marriage on the table in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act, which has been tabled by colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, indirectly interferes with at least three areas of our work, in addition to finance, in education and in the field of work. The main objective of the law is, according to the proponents, a more even and fairer sharing of money that students and students can and earn through their work. We agree that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is not the main and is not the only representative of the interests of young people. She is probably the largest student interest representative at the moment, but on the other hand there are many other organisations that also deserve additional public money obtained on a public invitation to tender and not awarded according to the monopolistic principle obtained by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The student organisation has a specific position, a legal person of private law, although several national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia have argued that it is a legal person of public law. With this dilemma, we have recently dealt with the novel of the Law on the Community of Students. One of the key differences between the legal person of public and private law is the supervision of the property of the organisation. The legal person of public law is subject to external supervision or supervision of the Court of Auditors, which is not a private legal person and can also act corruptly in the absence of internal control mechanisms. The student organisation of Slovenia has an annual budget of around €10 million, which is more derived from concession fees or student work. Officials who manage this money shall not be subject to the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act as applicable to public officials. In the past, we have been able to read in the media about a number of frauds performed by student officials with student money. So it was corruption, which we have been talking about for a long time today. I mean, it's the media's findings, but I have no reason not to believe them in this case. There are considerable gaps and inconsistencies in the current organisation of funding for young people. The main purpose of the student organisation must not be to convert money, but to respond to the needs of students. In these organisations, the Students' Organisations of Slovenia and the SHOU manage large sums of money and too many areas are poorly regulated. In New Slovenia, we believe that the competent ministry is most responsible for preparing a new regime for the area that will be aligned with the widest range of participants. We hope that the Government does not oppose the intention of the applicants and the proposed solutions in this novel ZUJF, but estimates that, at the same time as the proposed solutions are being adopted, systemic solutions to the functioning of student organisations in the Law on the Community of Students should also be adapted accordingly, as the proposed solutions can be implemented. Members of the New Slovenia are of the opinion that the proposal before us is good and, of course, we will support it in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Nice greetings again, dear fellows and fellows! It appears that one of the most hated laws is at the same time one of the most regarded. Of course, we're talking about the Public Finance Balance Act, about the ZUJF. It is therefore an intervention law from the first half of 2012, prepared by the then government in response to one of the biggest crises in our country and which has reached into 39 different laws and introduced a series of temporary measures and some also permanent ones. In December 2014, a new Law on the Balance of Public Finance was adopted, which established the principle: each work counts. On the one hand, the Institute of Temporary and Occasional Work of Students and Students with its positive effects, such as work experience, additional earnings, flexibility, and, on the other hand, has adapted the area in a way that would prevent its negative consequences, such as segmentation in the labour market, unfair competition and so on. The temporary and occasional work of students and students enables young people to gain work experience, contact with the labour market and the possibility of additional earnings, and provides employers with a degree of flexibility in their labour force to cover emergency staffing needs. The minimum hourly rate has been established on the basis of the minimum wage and temporary and occasional portions of students and students are newly included in pension and disability insurance and health insurance. As a result, contributions to pension and disability insurance, contribution to health insurance, contribution to injury at work and occupational diseases and, of course, concession fee are paid out of the amount on the passport. As a result of the inclusion of health insurance contributions, the amount of the concession fee decreased proportionally, from 23% to 16% in 2015 and from 2016 to 9.59%. The appropriations under the concession fee shall be allocated for grants, the functioning of the student organisation and the costs of the intervention organisations. The solutions included in ZUJF, novel C, have been coordinated over time with all stakeholders and represent an agreement with the Government, on the one hand, with student and student organisations. The government, or Minister Anja Kopač Dark, began co-ordination during the previous government. Thus, the agreement also constitutes part of the provisions governing the concession fee. The fact that the field of youth regulation deserves its own independent law and that this intervention law, ZUJF, is by no means an appropriate way of regulating such an important area, we have already warned in 2014 and have been promised that a separate law will be ready in 2015. This is still not available today at the end of 2016, and we urge the Minister to finally organise it, as promised in December 2014. We are convinced that all issues related to the functioning of student and student organisations must be resolved in a way that deals with all of these. Today's novels, which the proponents have explained, have been tabled for the non-transparent and uneconomic use of money, which is largely derived from the concession fee, precisely because it has not been co-ordinated, we will not be supported. Although we agree with the proposaler at the point where it is said that the transparency and cost-effectiveness of the resources they receive for their operations must be ensured. On the other hand, we believe that the solutions proposed do not in any way follow this objective. It is interesting, however, that at the 24th regular session we discussed the Proposal for a Amendment to the Student Community Act, which regulates this subject, was put into the procedure by the United Left, but unfortunately it was rejected by the majority. In our view, those novelties would make a significant contribution to the transparent and economic use of resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings from my side again! The SDS Group, acting under Article 130 of the Act on the Balance of Public Finance, which sets out the amount and distribution of the concession fee resulting from the student’s work, is acting on this proposal. It was originally set in 2012 by the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act and was subsequently amended several times. In the SMC Group, we are already beginning to stress and expect to receive answers to the questions: why, for what reasons, and on what grounds, the money-gathering has been divided in the past, as it has been. The proposal of the Public Finance Balance Act, which we have on the table today, proposes a more equitable and fairer distribution of money that students and students earn in their work. Applicants state as reasons the specific position of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, unfair practices and numerous frauds, inadequate control of property and unequal and unfair financing of youth organisations. In fact, the proposal for a novelty is the continuation of the debate already held on student organisation held at previous meetings of the working bodies and of the National Assembly. In the SMC Group, we have already made it clear that the student community cannot and must not act completely arbitrarily without clearly defined rules and appropriate regulation. We also agreed that the control mechanisms were not sufficiently appropriate and effective, so we called on the Ministry of Justice to take immediate action on the basis of the debates held so far and the public presentation of opinions held in the National Assembly on the proposal for a new Law on the Community of Students, on the basis of a new and harmonised legal solution which must necessarily contain a clear commitment to access information of a public nature, subject to the procurement rule and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. We are pleased that the proposal for a law is ready for public debate and that it has been attended by all the key stakeholders concerned. With regard to the proposal we are discussing today, we would like to highlight the following. Firstly, the statement of the applicants in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law that legal persons of private law are not subject to external supervision or supervision of the Court of Auditors does not hold true. The fifth paragraph of Article 20 of the current Law on the Court of Auditors provides for when private legal persons are also considered as beneficiaries of public funds. Since the student organisation and its organisational forms are financed by concession fees and are co-users of public funds, they are already committed to controlling the consumption by the supervisory mechanisms of the State, including by the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, we may wonder if such external control has proved sufficient so far. Secondly, the applicant submits that student officials who manage money derived from concession fees or student work are not subject to the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption as they apply to public officials. What we want to stress is that this area is not a matter of the Public Finance Balance Act, but it is a matter that must be primarily regulated in the Student Community Act. As already stated, the new proposal will also be properly regulated. Why is that important? Because we agree with the proponents that "it is wrong to make money for all students as a lotta profit" but that the change of only the SUJF in question will not in itself bring about the subjection of the student organisation and its organisational forms to the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we therefore assess that the new proposal of the Law on the Community of Students governs substantially more than the proposal that will be discussed today, which does not, of course, mean that it is unnecessary or not welcome. It is important that we all work together for an open, democratic and transparent not only student community, but also for the whole youth sector. Therefore, we also believe that if the proposed redistribution of funds is appropriate, we should listen to any other stakeholders. In line with the proposal of the new law, we will not give support to the modern centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, a nice Friday greeting! In the field of young people, we have quite a few organisations in Slovenia. We have the Youth Office, which is a state body, but it has an important impact on both policy adoption and the adoption of programmes in the Republic of Slovenia; we have the Youth Council of Slovenia, which is a top organisation of youth organisations, we have political minors, some are active, some are already dead, and we have the Student Organization of Slovenia along with its entities. In short, a number of important players in youth, youth policy and, of course, if we want young people to work, in addition to some serious legal and organisational form, they also need finance. And here we have before us a proposal for a law prepared by a minor of the Slovenian Democratic Party under the leadership of a fellow Member, Mr Jana Mahnič, who wants to share the money that students themselves deserve in a somewhat more transparent way. Slovenian Democratic Youth is the oldest political teenager in Slovenia, and I have a nice opportunity here, because I have been accompanying this area for almost 15 years, since 2002, 2003 when we had a fight with leading officials of student organisations, what is better for Slovenian youth, what is better for Slovenian students. And so far, we have cases that are in the sky, especially in the field of the high salaries of student officials who care for themselves and for their fellow students and very little for their fellow students. Above all, they care very little about those students who pay into this fund through their student work, and we have different frauds – something else here. The student work is not a novelty in Slovenia, but it is true that in recent years, especially since 2012, in the so-called second Janša government, we have tried to regulate it in some way, not least by amending the legislation in the government of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. This student issue of student work, in particular regarding the functioning of student organisations, is also being addressed in this mandate. But it's not the government that wants to regulate the issue of student organisations, but we have to put opposition representatives first. In the National Assembly, we have already considered the proposal of the United Left Group on the so-called Student Community Act, where we wanted to regulate the transparent functioning of the Student Organisation and regulate their supervision. However, the government coalition has argued that the government will prepare the law by the end of 2016. Dear government representatives, today we are 16. 12. 2016, you have 14 days to realize your own conclusion! Today's so-called, I don't know which one, is the new Law on Public Finance Balance, which wants to give more transparency to the money collected from student work concessions, so that it is not mostly directed to students' officials, but to local students' workers, the Youth Office and, last but not least, what is crucial in our opinion to increase the funding of the grant fund. The marriage is at first reading. A colleague from the United Left has already said that he may not be optimal in how much percentage, but especially in the financial allocation of the 9 million euros they receive, because students, and not student officials, are decent and earning through summer holidays, weekends or other possibilities of student work, which the Bologna student education system still allows them. And believe me, students aren't the ones who want their money to happen to what it is. Let us go in line: questionable investments, Student campus, what and who will have any of these – certain student officials. Hugely fictitious contracts and research, unaudited audits, various team building of student officials, avoiding public oversight, bribery, evidentiary, wages. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, distinguished representatives of the ministries and the government, you may also have received the sums of student officials' salaries, which range to almost EUR 7,000 gross. Well, Your Honor, look, your payroll. Is it 7,000 euros? Not at all! And we are Members and Ministers to blame for every cave in every village, for every day not a bad citizen and so on. But we have student officials as old as I am, close to 40 years old, and they're not being harmed. I'll tell you my own case. As early as 2003, I was with the gentleman, who is also mentioned here, Mr Sebastián Kokelj – there was almost a physical attack on me when I tried to explain to him what he was doing for his salary, but what they were doing, not the student MPs and ministers, but the real ministers. Fortunately, he intervened, now I think that the frozen member, and then I think that Mr Pertinac, the secretary or cabinet member of the Minister of Education, is. Because we Members and Ministers are responsible for everything, and student officials and student Members are playing politics. The policy that is also taking place elsewhere is more obvious than it is here in Šubičev and in Gregorčič. Such gentlemen are not subject to supervision, and today they are threatened with various pressures in the event that this law is passed. Not with legal pressure, but with all the pressure available, they threaten; those who are part of the problem point to us, Members, how weak we are. Sponsoring various shows, unnecessary consulting, document counterfeiting, real estate machining, creative accounting, fictitious accounts to various companies in large amounts and so on. And these student officials are protected, not as much as a nomadic bear, much more! Guilty of nothing, but paid as much as us or more. I know an example from my congregation when one was loudly opposed to how the student organization boasts, what it does, how the student organization takes care of student residence, when the student organization takes care of scholarships and everything else. That's not true! The Government with laws and Members with amendments to these laws is concerned that there are as many students in student homes, that some have a subsidised lease elsewhere, that they have the possibility of a warm meal, that they have a student lunch and so on. What do student officials do with this money? They organize – in addition to something small, when they boast twice a year about how they give for the more socially incapacitated euro – they organise parties. With these entertainments, students who drink beer there have two or three, even a profit; on the basis of these profits, they rewind the story of what are the big questions in such and other innkeepers, which we do not afford, and not even on December 16 each year, when we are looking forward to December. I am sure that no parliamentary group will have as big a question in any Slovenian inn as student officials have at their private parties. Therefore, we believe that it is imperative that these funds collected through student work concessions be returned to students in a certain proportion. We believe that it is essential that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth as a umbrella organisation, as a national authority, obtains funds and divides them more transparently and more under control. For here we come again to what colleagues from the United Left have proposed; the student organisation is not subject to, for now, anyone else. There's only heaven above them. This law, with respect, is to apply with effect from 1 July 2017. And if we still have the idea that the government should prepare that Law on the Community of Students in 2016, even if it is January that you will not get the red card, it will still be enough time until 1. Seven. 2017 to take an important step in regulating so-called student activities in Slovenia. The Law on the Community of Students, already proposed by the United Left – I hope that the Government will prepare a very similar one – and here we have this amendment of the law that we are preparing in the SDS Group. In short, more resources to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the supervised body, more funds for the grant fund – against this, we are respected, but we are really hard against – and also more funds to student clubs at local level. Believe me, I did not participate in writing this law, but I am one of those who we have established at least a decade ago – or more, now I am at least 15 years old – to set up a student club in our congregation when we wanted to give students something. Not only fun and what a sinking lecture, but also not least to link them together and give them useful information. Yes, we in the SDS Group believe that, during the second and third readings, it is still possible to discuss these distributions, these so-called 9 million; we may also wonder whether there is any other way to address the issue of student services, but I think the extensions are very good. And in this introduction, allow me to play a little bit with the government's opinion. Unlike many opinions from the government, when the government says, we will prepare systemic solutions here at least, I quote, “The government does not oppose the intention of the proponents and proposed solutions”. They assess what we all have together; that it is time for us to adopt this law by 1 July and adopt the government or the United Left of the Student Community Act, and that it will also be fulfilled what you wrote, “that is, that the proposed solutions can be implemented”. In short, everything tends to be with 1. 7. we get some serious solution in this area. As for the opinion of the Student Organisation, however, I must say that despite student officials changing in their positions, their opinions are somehow – at least for the last 15 years, as far as I have been accompanying this issue – the same: immediate effective pressure on those who wish to do anything in the so-called SOS, or if it goes to the Student Organisation of Slovenia in general or to their entities in Ljubljana, Maribor or Primorska. They do not use words such as drastic intervention, interference with our autonomy, and so on and so forth. Here they wrote, “without dialogue with us as key stakeholders”. We are the opposition, we are not the government and without concern, and even this government, at least in these two years, overruns stakeholders in three quarters of the laws, and sometimes the SDS Group gives its vote for the law because we believe that if we just talked to the stakeholders, we would only talk, but do nothing. And then they conclude, “that they are disappointed and will carry out all kinds of pressure”. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, I hope that we will be able to do so much wisdom that government ministers and state-level MPs will not be intimidated by student ministers and students. We've been called to account here at least every four years. Lately, we've been guilty of everything. Student officials are never called to account because they don't answer for anything. This needs to be changed and this law is a good draft that we are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Ms. Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the DeSUS Group, please
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, once again a good day! Let me borrow a sentence from the proposer when he says, quote: “The purpose of the student money collected is to return to the students sooner rather than lose it in the various frauds of one organisation and its legal forms.” Yes, in this regard, in the DeSUS Group, we fully agree with you respected colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. If students contribute for a certain purpose through their work, it is also appropriate to pay them back, so that the money is actually for them. Almost EUR 40 million, as far as the money from the concession fee, from the student's work, is intended for scholarships and the functioning of the student organisation, where the funds are allocated to various projects. It is about subsidising sports, educational, language and other courses, professional excursions, excursions, parties, lectures, seminars, workshops, instructions and so on. Students are also offered money aid, free legal, psychological and career counselling and coverage of competitions for sports, art and science. In addition, the projects and operations of more than 300 student associations are financed. The basis for financing and spending arrangements is laid down in the Student Community Act. The Public Finance Balance Act, which is the mandate led by the drafter of this Act, set out in 2012 how to share or where funds should be allocated from the concessions collected. The key to sharing was agreed between the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and representatives of students. Of this original ZUJF, the only change to date is that the concession is reduced from 23 per cent to 16 per cent and the funds have decreased to a percentage of the scholarships. With regard to who and how or by what key the student work fund is shared, our Group considers that it is not essential, and it is important that these funds are spent on purpose, so that they help students, that the funds are spent economically and that the transparency of spending is visible. Yes, there has been a lot of media coverage and other forms of information about how inside the Student Organization there are strange and inconvenient transactions, that money is untransparently used to be spent on projects that are financially exaggerated, but behind them there are frauds, corrupt practices and so on. Not least, we heard about this on the Committee on Education, Science and Sport when we discussed the proposal for a new Law on the Community of Students, where the key point of change was the functioning of the umbrella student organisation. Done at the Committee this October to prepare a new Law on the Community of Students, which takes into account the content of the debate and the public presentation of opinions, and to face and harmonise all the stakeholders concerned, it is our view that, as presented to us, it has already been realized. In a few days, expected on Monday, we will see a new Law on the Student Community, and the latter is important so that so far poor student money practices will no longer take place. Once again, the key to sharing is not as important as that 84,000 students really get their money back to them and only for their own good and for their own good. However, speaking of the key of division today, it is also essential for us as a democratic party to be concerned about the harmonisation of this concrete proposal among the stakeholders themselves. How we will vote on the decision on the appropriateness of the next legislative procedure will be dealt with at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, once again a nice greeting! I am pleased that we agree, at least, that the current one is not sufficiently transparent to see how this money is being spent, but, nevertheless, two old ones need to be separated. One is the Law on the Community of Students, which the Government negotiates with student officials or representatives of student organisations, and the other is the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which divided the concession in the way it did. This is two separate cases and the Student Community Act has nothing to do with what the Public Finance Balance Act provides. Since there is no talk in the Student Community Act on these financial means – and this is also essential – and that is why we believe that the Government’s opinion – I must say in person that it has made me happy because the Government has since written in its opinion that it welcomes this proposal so that it does not oppose it, but that it believes that another legislation must be adopted at the same time. We don't object. Now, if the matter is indeed going in this direction, as the lady has announced, and as I myself was aware, there has already been some agreement between the student officials and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to agree, if I have been properly informed, on a public order to follow these procedures. Another matter that I was also aware of about the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and that the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors will also be different than it is now. We welcome it all. Now I don't know if there's anything else I've forgotten, but the lady will fill me in. It is true that the decision of the Committee will be obvious or has come true that the Government should prepare proposals by the end of this year. I am pleased that this is so, but once again; what we are proposing has nothing to do with this law, but it is true that this law, which you will adopt in the Government and then put into Parliament, now that it will go to public hearing, will also serve as a basis for the distribution of this money, which we now propose to be distributed differently from it now. That is to say, these good 30 percent, as far as the student organisation from this entire bag is about to receive, will have to follow this new law or the amended Law on the Student Community. I mean, not that something is misunderstood or misheard, but that these things are being run in parallel. I must also answer, we were told, even in some positions, "you have not negotiated with the shareholders, no agreement has been reached." Look, it's usually the government's job, it's not the opposition's job to draft the law and sit down with all the stakeholders [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] - How? Yeah. – which this law concerns. [[…]] But we have prepared this law, presented it, sent it to all coalition parties and other parties in Parliament, and then decided as decided. I must say that I was concerned by the reaction of the University of Ljubljana Student Organisation, where we were directly faced with a threat. It's like when you step on your tail, it's like they're screaming, and it's like they're screaming because of these 9 million and 10 million. Once again, I say, when Mrs Antonio Kovacic said that they would agree at the right time. Keep in mind that we would have a marriage like this [[Finger-toed clap]] EUR 9 million, without any invitation to tender, without then being subject to any supervision. It's not working, is it?Oh, my God! Keep this in mind also when you decide how you will vote on this law. It's about greater transparency. The Youth Office is a umbrella organisation for the youth field and they distribute funds on the basis of calls for proposals. Then you have to report how you spent that money. Each year, about 100 youth organizations are allocated money. Do you know who? Also S.H.I.E.L.D. ŠCIS, an entity within the Student Organisation of Slovenia, also says that local student clubs are already receiving money from the Student Organisation. Under this law, we propose that we give student clubs not only through the Student Organisation, what we leave them, but also directly to local student clubs, and they can also apply to the Youth Office. So, student clubs, we can say, will be in a better position, because they will not depend so much on the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which shares this money with them, but will still depend on it in part, they will get some of the new money directly, and every year there will be about 4 million more funds at the Youth Office, from which ŠKIS will also have something. In short, money will still be available, they will still have the opportunity, but under substantially stricter criteria, under substantially more transparent conditions. And if we're talking, as I said before, about corruption in the National Assembly many times, look, we don't know where this money is going. See when the last report is on the website of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, when the last financial report was given – I think it is there for 2014. When the study was commissioned, a study was ordered about what students or what young people thought, what they thought about such and other matters, and 85,000 euros were paid for the study! When asked what the results of this study are, can you present the results — you know what they say? That's a business secret. That's a business secret. You know, we're gonna have to rub this student mob around, or I can't say, 'cause look at what's going on. We are not talking about a few thousand euros here, we are not talking about – see, fellow Member Bojano Muršič will now be persecuted for 600 euros now, not to say, it is the same thing if she has actually abused the situation, but here, where it goes for 9,10 million euros, we are looking away. Because of the 600-euro jackets, she'll go to court, and here, when the money just splits, when she disappears a little, she disappears a little bit, and here we're looking away. And when the marriage comes, you ask if you've negotiated with them. How are you going to negotiate with them, given their response?Oh, my God! When the students were asked to be prepared for all kinds of pressure, they didn't write, we'll use legal options. All the pressure! Look, these are obviously granite cubes in Parliament or something. But now, unlike when those protests were when it came to small work law, they will not gather people in front of Parliament. But who's going to protest so that a handful of student fat officials and rich people will be at the expense of all those young people who work through student work? Unless it works the way it's done to encourage someone to come to the protest. In short, look, I agree, maybe there's another way to distribute these numbers. Luke Mesec said that they do not advocate the idea of young people or that students have too much money. Neither do we, for we have not proposed that this should be done elsewhere, for this will remain for young people. But we advocate the fact that this money they have — and I would agree that they have even more — needs to be distributed more transparently and more effectively. If of these 9 million, let's say, I'm thinking, let's say 9, 10 million give an extra million for scholarships, I think that's a positive thing, and then actually those young people have some of the things that we're not talking about is absolutely also solidarity, by the fact that the money that young people earn and through these concessions, or we can say that these contributions are paid to be spent on young people. This also strengthens intergenerational solidarity in some way. So much for now. More later than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not repeat what respectable colleague Tomaž Lisec described in cases of irregularities, intransigence that are taking place within the Student Organisation. I'm not going to repeat the numbers grossly, but in spite of everything. Seven thousand gross wages, but a large number of students are hard to get through from month to month. This is certainly our task, not just to diagnose, but to adopt more just legislative solutions. As I said, we will support this amendment of the SDS colleagues and colleagues. I've calculated what amounts actually are, because if we're talking about interest, interest, then we don't have the first ideas, not at all, not when it comes to financial resources. If we round up the concession fee, i.e. this meal, which is a large 9 million euros, then now, according to the new one, from 1 July 2017 onwards, the budget fund of the Ministry, which is exclusively intended for scholarships, will receive about 5 million. So much for the new proposal now stands at 56.3 per cent, so far we have had this 52.6 per cent. So, we raise this share, and it's right. All the shares, all the distributions, these concession fees, these financial cakes, they're all our young people, students and students anyway. After I look at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. This has not received any concession fee to date. Now the proposal is 10 per cent, that is, about 900 000 euros. I support you. ŠOS, The Student Organisation of Slovenia has so far received almost a quarter or more of 23.7 per cent of this financial cake, now 8 per cent is proposed. That's about EUR 720 thousand. We have also consulted our young man, Young Slovenia, who supports the proposed solutions. Maybe in some proportion, they said, they went a little bit sharper than they say. What they had in mind is what they'll say. Then, to this day, the student organizations of the local communities received nothing. I don't think that's fair. That somehow the matter must also, if I may say so, be decentralised and decentralised. Now they're going to get 2%, that's about 180,000 euros. I support you. The share of unemployment insurance contributions is maintained at 16%, which is approximately 1.44 million euros. Of course, in a second-reading debate, it may be possible to optimise these shares if, of course, someone has some substantial arguments to support the change in these shares. At this point, however, I think the matter has been set optimally. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - we estimate that this solution is fairer than it has been before and that we will therefore let it go to a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your word! Today, as we say, we are considering a proposal for a law that would legally redistribute concession fees in order for the largest umbrella student organisation to act more transparently and that, in this way, users, such as students and other young people, could have the most of the benefits themselves. In opening, I must say that I fully agree with my colleague Mahnič that the work within the student organisations has been repeatedly recognised as controversial – in the end, we have been able to witness this through various media releases – and that in this sense it is also necessary to amend legislation that will define more explicitly the functioning of the student organisations and their subsystems or various organisational forms. However, in order to understand the whole picture, it is still necessary to look closely at the competences of the authorities and the legislation covering the financing of student organisation. This is what I am talking about about the picture of the cash flow, how this is actually going from student services to the Student Organisation and what is actually going on with these funds within the student organisations themselves. I speak mainly because, according to the views, the painting can be a little confusing and it should be clarified that this topic is actually covered by three competent ministries. So three planes. The first is the Ministry of Finance. So the first plane, which, of course, I would hardly say is substantively responsible for this subject, but the Ministry of Finance is so competent that today we are talking about the ZUJF which regulates this area. It should be remembered, however, that the ZUJF has intervened in another law which has regulated this area in substance, and this is, of course, the law covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and this is, of course, this second plane. In particular, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, through the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, empowers the student service with a concession contract to carry out the professional tasks of intercession of work for students and students. These student services, on the basis of this law, account for 12 % of the concession fee paid to students and students from their work. This means that we are now talking about these 12 percent, how they are then distributed and, of course, how much of the percentage then comes to student organisations. Under the law, therefore, the student service provided under this title, which he received, must take 20 per cent to the public fund for scholarships, 40 per cent of these funds remain to the student service for his operation and 40 per cent are then transferred to the student organisations. Thus, in this part of our discussion, we are talking about legislation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, which means that these funds are, how they are allocated, defined within the legislation and also an agreement between the Ministry of Labour and representatives of student organisations. This is the part that we are talking about today and which is also problematic by the proposaler in the way that he wants to redistribute these funds differently, as is now the case. Then the next question is what happens to financial resources when they are already within student organisations. Here is the competent Ministry of Education with the legislation most affected by this organisation, i.e. the Law on the Community of Students. Here I would like to stress, as has already been said today, that the mother labour force in this reference to the National Assembly has already adopted a decision to oblige the competent ministry to amend this law in a way that will make the organisation of student organisations more transparent in order to make access to information of a public nature more transparent. Which means that the functioning of student organisations is more transparent, that student organisations are monitored by the Court of Auditors, that student functionaries are subject to anti-corruption provisions, as is the case with government officials, that the public procurement system is also overwinded, and that the principles of representative bodies and student elections are unified precisely because of the controversial practices and suspicions of the various financial frauds that we have witnessed by student organisations. Thus, in this work concerning transparent action, the Ministry of Education has already prepared a novel, which has also been coordinated through the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on student issues, and will be sent to a public debate on Monday. So much for the implementation of the Decision of the Committee on Education and the intention of the Ministry of Education. Which, of course, means that this novel will “fear the continuation of controversial practices” because it will be properly taken care of within the amendment of the law. And here I fully agree with my colleague Mahnik. As regards the allocation of funds, if we go back, what happens to concession benefits and how they are forwarded to student organisations. Here I must point out that the allocation of funds alone cannot directly address transparent action, because until we have some proper control, it is difficult to discuss transparency. I am also saying this because the proposaler in this part, when he wants to change the allocation of funds, i.e. percentages, i.e. how money comes to organisations, justifies in his work that this would be better spent if he were redistributed with the SOS to other items in the spirit, in order to make it even more fair. As we say, I find it difficult to talk about justice alone until we can talk about some transparent action. The question remains, however, whether the system of this redistribution of funds, as discussed by the proposer, is, on the assumption that it works transparently, whether such a system as we know it today is a good one. In fact, there is no one here today, neither the proposer nor the other parliamentary group. I also say this from the point of view, if we read the bill, that it is personal to me at first sight, I might say, it stands, but it was not more designed, if I may say so, with some student public. It follows that the draft law does not contain clear and reasoned consequences for the solutions proposed. In order not to make a mistake, I have no problem with the allocation of funds alone, but they are in the proposal, as indicated, where it actually appears that about 70 per cent of the total funding would be taken away from the student organisation, then I imagine what this could mean for the subsystems that depend on this funding. Of course, I agree that there have been suspicious practices and bad things, but if we are now discussing that funds within student organisations are being used badly, and if the argument is that they need to be redistributed, then I wonder why we did not then abolish all funds to the Student Organisation and simply, let's say that these funds would be obtained in a way that is public tendering, because this would be the most appropriate in the final context. I also say this from the point of view, because the student organisation and its subsystems, various organizational forms in various ways then continue to help students, both through various professional excursions, lectures, seminars, workshops, instruction, students also offer money assistance, free legal, psychological, career counselling, co-ordinating for sport, artistic, scientific competitions. This means that different programmes, both in the fields of culture, education and international cooperation, depend, of course, on these funds. Here we must be aware that in 2015 the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs signed an agreement with the Student Organisation that the concession fee on student work will not change, even because the allocation of resources is a reason, i.e. how much funding for scholarships and how much for the functioning of organisations itself, that this system, as it works, is currently good. Of course, if we do not think so, however, it would be good to have some more concrete arguments and views on the basis of which it would have to be amended. So, on the basis of something to change the percentage of how these funds from student services go to student organisations themselves. And here, in the final sequence, we will also have to rely on the student public. In view of the response, I fear that this allocation is not, for the time being, inclined to do so, but, for the time being, I cannot support such a proposal as it is. However, it agrees with the proposaler that the issue of the transparent functioning of student organisations is acute and this will, as it is said, also be regulated by the Law on the Community of Students, which will be adopted at the beginning of the year in the National Assembly on Monday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	Mr. Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Tabakovic said that if it were fairer. I think that if we divide it this way because now they get directly from these 9 million euros, only the SOS and the SOS entities. After the new year, you would have just as much money or still had money, for a bad 70 percent less, and at the same time would have included many other organizations, students, students, young people, who are not working today and who do not get the money. They also have members who also work and use student service or student travel, student work. That's why we think it would be fairer. Because now these 9 million euros are being distributed by the Slovenian Student Organisation within its entities, it would still be so, just so that we don't share so much money, but we would give money to others who don't get it now. I have already heard some suggestion that we should make an organisation like FIHO and give it half to them and give it half to the Student Organisation of Slovenia. I wouldn't agree with that, because we know what it's like to distribute funds in such cases. As far as this law is concerned, it does not concern the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Of course not — at the same time and not at the same time. Because the question is who is the institution in this case of this law because three ministries are difficult to carry. Now, whether it be the finance or the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Education. But what is essential is that the law states, in the Law on the Community of Students, that in considerable work, financial resources are said to be the title of concessions. That's all it says. No, then how the student organization within itself divides these millions, especially not what control is like. Because the supervision of the SOS itself is ensured by its acts, with its constitution. They have their own rules. That is to say, they get the money and determine for themselves how they will spend it and what kind of control they will have over how they consume it. For the rest of us, we don't care. We must not ask Members when we ask Members, it is a secret, but not only when Members ask when students ask themselves how you are our money, the 90 million euros we have collected – yes, that is business secrecy. A good introduction was given by his colleague Tabaković when he said how this money was then spent. Look, I've collected some cases here. Questionable investments – Student campus, we talked about this today. Look at this. The student organization bought land and facilities from a former student official for 1.2 million euros. And where did they put this campus? Yes, over there, as the railway tracks go now, there will now be some compensation, that the matter will have to be reselled. And even though the facilities will soon be demolished, they will invest about a million 800 into the campus. It says 3 million euros like this; first, a million 200 to buy from a former student official, then a million 800 to restore the matter, what happens when it goes over the railroad? [[...]] But nobody's responsible for that. Of course, if they get 10 million euros! It's easy, say, but now in one year, we're going to spend $2 million on this campus to make good money. Fictive contracts, I have already said before, at the SOS in just one year 85 000 Euros were devoted to research that was not presented to the public, the leader of the research was then Klemen Balanch, this is today the President of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the research was carried out by the IPM Institute and a colleague Mr. Klemen Balanc, when someone asked him today what it was like: this is the business secret of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. I've been talking about campus. Teambuildings. That's interesting! Members of Parliament, we are often told when we go abroad to go on mission tourism. Five student electorates went on a professional field trip to Canada, spending 25,000 euros. Twenty-five thousand euros for a professional field trip. But if you asked them what you were doing there, that's a business secret. We're not gonna say that because it's a business secret. Former President Marko Hozjan tried to write in the documents of the SHOU that the organisation was a person of public law – this is what we Members were also talking about and it is a shame that it had not gone through by then. The plan failed, but Hozjan, when he was once again a student official, what we were listening to, wanted to bribe Zeljko Milovanovic, withdrew his student policy. At that time, the court came to the epilogue that this bribe was a bribe, but then the trial, as usual, dropped. But we see how "modeus operandi" works. But here I am referring to Mr Marija Bachič, when she said, we need to watch what student organisations are doing, because this is where those who will lead our country in the future are coughing. They're doing great. They're doing great. Corruption practices are already being taught here what they will do when they reach a budget of several billion, not 9 million euros and 10 million euros. Interestingly, under the Slovenian Student Organisation – University of Ljubljana Student Organisation, University of Primorske and University of Maribor Student Organisation, directors of these organizations, Ljubljana 5 000 250 euros, seaside 3 000 400 euros, Maribor 6 000 700 euros. Is that what students and students do? And when we go to see the budget, now I will go, before I forget it, I will go to print, most of the budget of the Student Organisation of Slovenia are administrative costs. Here, for example, we have €64 000 for the Secretary-General every year, for the remaining costs of €53 000, for the various professional services of more than €100,000 per year. The contract I was able to obtain between the Student Organisation of Slovenia and M Communications, represented by Nina Finzhgar, she and the current director of the ŠOS are old friends from the university. Look, for the communication of a thousand 900 euros a month. The monthly implementation of strategic communication activities, crisis communication, the SOS uses crisis communication, probably because of today's consideration of such a law and relations with the media, a thousand 500 euro net. Monthly co-ordination in the digital content of €400 net. A thousand 900 Euros of net advisory contract. Not really. Pays a month's contract of counseling. Before that, I think there was, somewhere in the amount of thousands of euros, just like that. Between €30 and €50 000 of advisory contracts only in the field of communication with the public. We don't give that much to the political party. It's not. They give, I think in 2014, they gave 50,000 euros, which is ten thousand more than that of the Prime Minister of Israel, but it is a student organisation, not the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And for a variety of, look, financial service, secretariat and public relations – again more than 100,000 euros. Do you know what the answer is? What if they take more than 60 percent of us? Yeah, this is where you cut! You'll cut it here, on things like this. If the state budget was cut at all levels, when it was necessary, when we spent two billion and a half more than we created, they would have to. If the defence system can survive with 50 percent less costs, so will they, but not now say that we will not be able to survive now if you take this law away from us and now we will exert all sorts of pressure on you. You know what would be the most clear message to this student elite? To support the coalition and the opposition together in the first reading of this law, we can sit down, including them, and see if any percentage can be moved and if the coalition, the opposition will then jointly adopt the law proposed by the Government, which, after further effective control of this money, will be imposed upon them under this law. This would be a clear message that we are already at the lowest levels, that we are no longer allowing corruption in the case of these 9 million euros. What is the impact on the state budget with this law? Positive! Since the state budget receives an additional EUR 5 million, little less than 6. The Ministry of Labour and Family has more than €1.5 million in the grant fund and the Ministry of Education or the Youth Office has a good €4 million. However, the Student Organisation of Slovenia loses, but there is no body in the composition. In short, this law brings EUR 5 million plus into the state budget. If this is not the reason to support it and then we can sit together, because, as we have heard from that side, we can support it in the first reading, and then we can see if there is anything else to optimize these numbers. Look, I agree with this right now, but let's let it go through first reading and then we'll just as a result we'll also let the law enter into force on 1 July 2017, not on 1 January. [[...]] Just then, June, July, August, September is the most student work. By then, we will have this law under the roof, the Law on the Community of Students. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	The word has Mrs Jelka Godec, prepare to be mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much. First of all, I am pleased that the voice of young people in the National Assembly is also heard, and finally that they will not say that we are dealing only with things that are not of concern to young people, especially that this bill touches on the fact that more money is involved in scholarships. At least in this part I see the greatest positive effect of this law. My friend Mahnic described very well where he was going, or where he was not going, the 9 million who were running into the SOS. It is inconceivable to me, in fact, that even by the coalition, somehow in this first reading, there is no trace of support, even though we know that in the second reading, things can be changed or finalized. It's clear that this money that's running into the S.H.I.E.L.D. is due to student work. So, students create this income in the SOS, and on the other hand, the SOS itself is ultimately not subject to any control as to where the money goes. The 9 million we're talking about has no control over the Court of Auditors or anything, because it's a private law organization. I don't already have this thing going together on this basis, because if this money is created from a student's work, and it's going to run into an organisation that then examined this use, it's definitely going to have to change this first. Some students work to survive from month to month in order to study, providing themselves with those basic needs for study. It is normal for them to want to know where this money is going or to want to see more money that they have somehow earned or produced, if I may say so, for scholarships. Indeed, it is constantly recalled that there is not enough money for scholarships, that there are more applicants for scholarships than budget opportunities. And why not make a little more or a little more money in the scholarship fund from this influx to the S.H.I.E.L.D.? At the same time, when different clubs are financed, even in the local sphere, we see that these clubs, as said by colleague Mahnic, do not want a review, do not want to report and this is also a non-transparent operation. I would say, therefore, that the SOS, which in its record, if we look at what has been said in the past, has already taken place various criminal investigations, that these are large salaries, counseling, suspicious sponsorships, shopping and so on, that during the first phase of the SOS the money should be controlled or controlled by at least the Court of Auditors or review, and that this money should then be allocated in such a way that it is most returned to the students. So, scholarships, Youth Office, the club directly. Of course, remember that this division should then be monitored so that we do not then talk about irregularities in these divisions. So I would say that for first reading, it is certainly necessary to support or support the marriage. From this point of view, too, it was said that it would begin to apply. Seven. 2016 – Sorry 2017 – when the Law on the Community of Students is to be adopted, which will then regulate, whether it is private or public law, and then this control or distribution of money will be more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, prepare Mrs. Nada Brinovšek and Dr. Mitja Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I have to say, I had some deep contact with the student organization about 10 years ago. At that time, it was also about how the money would be distributed, and it was mainly about what the concession fee would be, what it would be, what it would be, and so on. I must say, in some late night hours at the Ministry of Education, even some students came to whistle with whistles, were like some demonstrations and so on. I have already negotiated with representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education with some people, who are also listed today as directors of the SOS and so on, at least these regional SOSs. Which means that student organisations have, I can say, "sustainable leadership". The same persons who are very familiar with the functioning and financial functioning of student organisations. Of course, I'm talking about people who run and manage money. I'm not talking about how many students actually have whatever it is they have. How they manage and how they run these organisations, they know mainly themselves, because if I go – and I go today – to the SOS website, there is no financial report for 2015. There is no financial report for 2015. But I thought this website wasn't renovated. You do, however, have a 2016 student award game on this website. And also drawing, I think it was once August 2016. It also says very precisely how to pay your income, which means it's not a game of luck, but it's another game. In short, all these things are very well arranged there. But you don't have a financial report for 2015. For 2014 there is another way, for 2015 there is no way. This, of course, now means that the organisational form on which the Student Organisation operates does not have the basis to be monitored by the budgetary inspection, the Court of Auditors, can now go, can not go, other inspections and so on. This does not appear to control the regularity of business, let alone the economy and the economy of business. However, the SOS has a supervisory committee, has a supervisory authority and also has a supervisory authority regulation on the websites. And, see, this supervisory authority, which is supposed to oversee all of this, says in an article that it is independent, completely independent, but we all have independence, so there is no problem here – and the rules of this supervisory authority, which can also review about 70 articles. 70 legally complicated articles are governed by the supervision of the SOS. I would be very interested in some of the results of this supervisory authority, which is probably business secrecy, because it also says what business secrecy is, what is not business secrecy and so on – very, very precisely. I would even say that some internal SOS acts are about as precise as some internal acts of a multinational, which is perfectly normal. If he invests in SOS land, if he organises prize games, if he has organised corporate contacts with the public and so on; in short, all that a share company has is, it seems, also the SOS, only that a share company is a company under the Company Act, which is a person of public or private law who cannot be reviewed by anyone. The shareholder society, I think, is being reviewed by the auditors and so on by this legal person or civil society person and so on. Here is the problem in control, but control because it seems that this SOS also generates certain money, certain revenue with prize games, with this activity and, on the other hand, simply gets the most revenue with concession fee. This represents a total of 16 percent. In other words, the employer pays this 16 per cent per 100 euro to the student he receives for a job when he works — for example, what is guaranteed is 4.5 euros gross per hour. If he gets 100 euros, the employer will deduct 16% of that, and this will actually reduce his student income or not be that high, at the expense of the student. Out of this, today – of these 16 euros per 100 – the SOS receives slightly less than 4 euros. And he spends a little less than 4 euros. Of course, this is multiplied by the number of hours and so on by students and then we come up with these 9, 10 million revenues, which we don't even know exactly because – once again – we don't have a financial report for 2015, for 2016 we can't have it either for half a year or not; but anyway, this is actually public money. It's public money. Since the concession fee is prescribed by the regulation, it is prescribed by law and here should be much better, much more efficient and, of course, much more transparent control over this public money. Actually, it's not here. Of course, we need to make systemic legislation, but, look, we're waiting for this systemic legislation, we're waiting for these solutions. The first solution, the fastest, if you want, is, of course, a change in the sharing of this money. It is up to us that students and students get more money, but not through the ŠOS, which we have already heard of, how much unnecessary expenditure there is, how much suspicious expenditure it can have and so on, but in the form of scholarships, in the form of direct, direct funding to student clubs, to finance organisations where students actually realize their interests and what students actually need. I don't know if students need all the leadership of the student organisations we're talking about, three student organisations. If necessary. I don't know. I don't think so. I think that the most important thing for students is to increase their hourly position, which, indirectly, would have happened to the student work to get a scholarship to get a suitable residence, of course, in the first place to get the appropriate literature. And by doing so, if the SOS were less effective, I would have indirectly freed up the money for all these things. There'd be more. I'm speaking directly, not directly, but indirectly. It's in the interest of the students. It may not be in the interest of the management of student organisations, but it is in the interest of the students. Our proposal, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is in the interest of students and goes in the interest of students. As for sharing, how much for someone, how much for scholarships, how much for other student organisations, for local student organisations, look, it's always a matter of some arrangement. There's always percentages, they've passed, and so on, the deal. And even when they're proposed, no one's gonna put a hundred percent hand in the fire, but they're the right ones. And the present are such, and the future and the proposed are probably the same. But those proposed are proposed because it is noted that the Student Organisation is recklessly using the money it actually receives. And not for the benefit of the students! This is, of course, a proposal such as it is, and of course, this proposal is in the first reading, and it would therefore be supported by this first reading of the law that these percentages can be corrected so that they can also agree with others so that ministries can also make their proposal. But we already have a similar solution in marriage, only other percentages. See also the article and you will see how these percentages were by 2013, by 2015, by 2017 – you always have a percentage. And we find that it is not optimal now, so we propose a new one and we agree. For this reason, the rejection of this, look, ladies and gentlemen, would simply mean that in some way you agree with the reckless consumption of concessional money resulting from the work of students and that it should remain so. That's a bad signal. It's actually a bad signal. And here we have – of course I respect that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance are here, but in fact I miss the Ministry of Education or the education of a representative or a minister, a secretary of state, whoever. Because that's the bearer's theme. I know that the Ministry of Labour and Finance must be with us, but the finance must be more from a public-financial point of view. However, this is the subject of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. That is why I propose, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, that you support our law to support new solutions for the benefit of students and students of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the word to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. I must say that I am pleased to have listened to the views of all the parliamentary groups, that I have not observed any such very negative attitude towards our proposal. When I also listened to Comrade Tabakovic, I was glad; he said so that the proposal stood, but but also he said, if you knew what would have happened if it had been? [[…]] [[…]] There wouldn't be waiting lines in health care, there wouldn't be a bank hole, the pensioners would have nice pensions and so on. But let's just leave it. The fact is that occasional and, as we say, student work positively affects both students and students as well as employers. Look, students and students first get something for their pocket. While employers, unless I exclude those who somehow exploit these students and students, can somehow adapt to the market more quickly. It is known that the students are in the autumn session, I think this was on the Education Home Committee in October, at which time we discussed a proposal for amendments to the Student Community Act. At that time, I will say, they called for transparent use of public funds, saying these funds collected from concession activities. They drew attention to the fact that, if funds are also raised by students as students, it is good to share them among all, but these funds, unfortunately, are now only going to student organisations in this case. Students at the time also suggested that money goes only to those who create it, but not mainly to be spent on the functioning of student organisations themselves, but we know that they have been marked by a number of scandals in the past. And although my colleague Jean has already mentioned some of them, I will once again point out what the students were alerting at that meeting. They drew attention to questionable investments when it came to disputed divestment and purchase of land for the Student Campus. Jean explained this even more. They drew attention to fictitious contracts and research. The show has, of course, an average contract of EUR 2 000 500 per month with many former student officials – I think we know how many average pensions or minimum or guaranteed salaries are. And they've spent as much as 85,000 euros in the last year on a research that has never been presented to the public. They also pointed out average wages on campus. These average wages amount to around EUR 2 000 500 to EUR 2 000 700 gross. They also pointed out these excursions to Canada — for five people, €25,000. That's what my colleague Jean mentioned earlier. He's crying. I think you've all somehow heard or perhaps thought a little bit about it: it pays EUR 3 000 400, over EUR 5 000 250 to EUR 6 000 700 gross. I don't know what kind of face any of us have here to defend something like this, I hope not. Well, sponsoring the show was also mentioned by colleague Jean, and this broadcast by Hribar, it went for 50,000 euros, and the student officials denied it at first. By not listing these cases further. The point is, both students and students were injured. This shouldn't have happened. It definitely shouldn't have happened. At this fall session, the minister also somehow promised that she would be a new lawmaker this year. Now we're at the end of December, and it's definitely not going to happen. Therefore, we have proposed an amendment to this 130th Article of the ZUJF, which deals with the division of this concession fee, which is the sum of 9 million annually. I would point out once again, as my colleague has pointed out, that this is not about increasing any percentage or increasing the percentage of this concession activity, but that this percentage is distributed within this item. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are simply proposing that more resources be allocated to the budget fund of the Ministry, which is intended or the main purpose of which is to grant scholarships. We also propose that, according to the new one, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia should be committed to the functioning of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth for 10 per cent of these funds, which we redistribute within, 8 per cent of these funds for the operation of students' or students' organisations, which were previously 23.7 per cent and not least 2 per cent for the operation of students' organisations at the local level, which are mostly abandoned. So, once again, we have proposed a proposal for redistribution, not to increase this item. I cannot help but point out what the Government has written in its opinion, "The government does not oppose the intention of the applicants and the proposed solutions, but estimates that, at the same time as the proposed solutions are being adopted, system solutions should also be adapted accordingly." Dear colleagues from the coalition and the government! I fear that these are promises and that you will have the promises and systemic changes that the coalition and this government have been promising you will run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	Replica, Mr. Sasha Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Just so there is no mistake that, of course, I fully agree with the proponents that the situation as it is is is acute and that we are certainly on the same shore in this respect, but that we do not agree in a certain part on the solutions themselves. So when we talk about the transparency of organisations, this, of course, covers the Ministry of Education through the Law on the Community of Students and, as it is said, will also go to public debate on Monday. However, as far as the allocation of funds is concerned, this allocation alone can be linked to transparency, and this is simply not the case. So how these funds are distributed, this is a matter of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and also, as my colleague Shircelj has already said, a simple matter of agreement. As this agreement has also been reached with regard to the signing in early 2015, we will be sure that the State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, Mr Pogačar, will be able to explain it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	Jean Mahnic – he has the floor, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you. Only that, because I may have misunderstood that the law would not contribute to greater transparency if I understood correctly. I think it would contribute to greater transparency. Once again, €9 million would not go directly into the pockets of organisations, which then has nothing to do with any data. I also went to see for myself before I printed, only for 2014, we have the latest financial report, not for 2015 nor for half a year for 2016; but once again, we are giving money to the Youth Office just so that the Student Organisation or its entities can apply for the tender, we have a good project, we will apply for the tender, the Youth Office will give them money and there will be no problem. It is true, however, that there will be no more money for a variety of frauds, that 85,000 will drip out there, 85,000 euros there for some services that have not been done at all, and so on. And this is a problem because some of the student organisations, like many others, let us be realistic, and other organizations and companies in this country use them for their own wealth. We are doing this because this money, which we are still leaving for them to have directly, is still allowed by concessions to operate by the Student Organisation, will have little to adapt, and the programme will be as easy as it is – if a good project is to be prepared, as other youth organisations that are not under the SOS have to apply it to the public tender and will receive funds there. I really don't know how this could make the matter even more transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	The word has Dr. Mitja Horvat, prepare for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, respectable others, as you like to say! Today I will not speak to the proposer, because I do not really have enough to answer what he represents to us today. In fact, I'm afraid it's again a certain diversion, to which we regularly witness in the National Assembly. So today we are not talking about what we would like to achieve with the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, but we are actually witnessing a particular form of parliamentary control over the functioning of the officials of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. I must say that I have suffered for 22 years since the Law on the Student Community was passed in 1994, because I myself wondered what had happened to the applicants and what had happened to the National Assembly at the time that it had adopted such a law as it had been adopted. The obvious fact that it is not possible to oversee the Law on the Student Community cannot be accepted because it is a community of students and, of course, students have been left to decide how much and what has been transferred to them by law. Whoever watches the Student Community Act will see that texts appear throughout the entire law in accordance with the law, on the basis of law and so on and so forth. For example, as far as control of the purposeful use of funds is concerned, the second paragraph of Article 10 "is being carried out in accordance with specific rules". By what special regulations, if not by the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you. Why everyone's fooling around and why there's no such thing as control goes beyond my behavior. We've only been here two years. During these two years, we have also drawn up a law, as has been said several times, at the 21st regular session of the National Assembly. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After that time, several debates were also held after the decision and a public presentation of the opinions of the National Assembly. Let me repeat, the 21st regular session was 5. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Today's proposal was received by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors 25. 11. 2016, which means good months after the activities have taken place. There's something small going on here. The Public Finance Balance Act has been adopted as a law, as has been said several times today, which has intervened in a number of laws. And you will not believe that the measures we are talking about today and the provisions to be amended are permanent measures under the heading of permanent amendments. A lasting measure which the party, of course, has actively participated in the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act today wants to amend. Let us first look at what the Public Finance Balance Act was designed to do – provide sustainable public finances to reduce budget expenditure. When we look at the bill itself, we must find that the applicant himself writes that there are no direct implications for the state budget. In a few weeks, the proposaler has changed his mind, and the proposaler's representative is talking about getting 5 million more budget resources. In short, when we're talking about fraud, I believe it wasn't a serious purpose. When he also felt some small support by presenting the views of the groups of Members, the proposaler now, of course, began to agitate at us to give us this law, even if it is not the best at this time, because it had no serious purpose. As it has been said, it was not the intention to arrange for the removal of anomalies, which he himself well knows, that they cannot be eliminated by the adoption of this law, but that all entities in the society that exercise control, especially students themselves, and the students themselves obviously cannot in recent years. Because, for about 10 years, I have been faced with frequent questions by students about what we should do. They also used all the routes there to the Supreme Court and we already have all the bases and decisions of the competent national authorities, but nothing happened. Even with the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, which, the honourable proposer, if you have not noticed, has recently been in a slow but reliable resolution. Everything that is possible and everything that is necessary will be in line with our programme below, which is regulated by the ZUJF, slowly, but, of course, depending on what opportunities we will have, slowly eliminate. For the Law on Public Finance Balance has been adopted as a temporary law until, as I have said before, as long as the provision of sustainable public finances and the reduction of the expenditure of the budget must be pursued in this way. In recent times, as you know, we have set up a slightly more ambitious budget, and we believe that the savings periods are, of course, very poor in terms not only of public finances, but, of course, in terms of the very functioning of society, that we want to give our society a new impetus in all segments. As far as efforts are concerned and when we talk about the competence to settle issues concerning the student community of Slovenia, it is important to say that as far as today's proposal is concerned, it deals exclusively with the issue of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Indeed, the Student Organization and what is the essence today, that is, the warning of irregularities over the decades in our society, which we have looked at or looked at peacefully so far, are on the radar and, of course, we will now do something about it. But not through the Public Finance Balance Act, because it's not the right way and we don't believe it. Just by redistributing what you're talking about, we're not going to achieve what you're declaring today. So it is not only a question of how funds are distributed, but it is a matter of laying sound foundations for the functioning of the student community, which, of course, comes from the beginning of the law itself, namely the law governing the situation, the operation, the activity of the self-government student community. Because we believe that young people know and are able to manage their affairs, and of course something that is written here in Article 2 of the Law and no one has talked about it today. Students join the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Why? For the purpose of regulating issues of common importance, the exercise of common interests, the solidarity of the common needs and the exercise of matters of State competence, which are given to the Student Organisation of Slovenia with public authority. Questions that were absolutely overlooked and left to the tide; we all knew, but no one did anything. It's time to do something about it. I agree with some of the arguments that have been put forward and what needs to be resolved with regard to the anomalies in this system, and, of course, that the money collected in this way should be dedicated to what was also meant by the Law on the Community of Students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	The text is by Jan Mahnic, representative of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you. I find it hard to believe the words I have heard: saving is bad from the point of view of public finances. Then I do not know why former Minister Dusan Maramor, who was also Minister of SMC quota, said at the beginning of 2015 when he went on a business trip to New York: The main measures we took to stabilise Slovenia are pension reform, labour market reform, the establishment of a bad bank, the establishment of SDH, and a package of austerity measures that have reduced public spending. These were Dr Dusan Mumorr's words, unless he still remained at EUR 2.5 billion of the budget deficit. But we didn't, and Dr. Dusan Marble went this way. But it is true that now you stick to what Dr. Horvath said: saving is bad from the point of view of public finances. You have thrown – how much, almost 300 million euros in the last year after more spending. Even today, if I read correctly, you have given up more than 50 million euros now. This all increases public spending and will have an impact on the budget, but this money is not back in. We still have a budget deficit. I agree with what he said about the student community law, but membership here is mandatory. They determine their own internal controls, and no one answers. And the malversions from A to Z, whatever you want, everything! It's been a long time since anything happened. We have been talking for quite some time in our youth about what to do with this matter, what to do to make it more transparent. I can't just be here in Parliament, but I can sit here because nothing has been done in this area in a long time, and I'm not going to propose anything. I strongly reject what Dr. Horvath said that marriage is not serious because we said we could still talk about these percentages. That was the offer of a hand. However, since I am interested in your position, perhaps someone has a better proposal, because there is only one article and because it is written as a percentage, it is excellent for amendment. Then we can sit down, and if anyone has any better proposal, which he also argues, any proposal can be amended. That's why we didn't go straight to the board. We put it in the first reading to hear it here. We may also be proposing a change, but right now, with what we know, what facts we know and what the real situation is, we find such a division most meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Dr. Mitja Horvat's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. You didn't get me right. I didn't say anything about throwing away millions or hundreds of millions. If we give them to people, to people who deserve their money, if we believe that the start of an entire society is the start of an economy, about which I haven't really talked about, I can now tell you the answer when we talk about the multiple effects of each euro spent. With each euro saved, we have come to the situation in which this mandate has been drawn up in an endless debt from the past, which we have had to take care of within two years within the established framework, which we have not adopted on our own, if you remember: from a change in the Constitution, to a fiscal rule law, within the law and the constitution of certain frameworks, we are prudently using money and giving it to those who deserve it; to those on whom we do not believe that it is necessary to save. And these are people because they need to work for the good of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dr. Horvath, when you talk about people, tell us more about which people — those who are employed in the public sector. What will it do for people who work in the economy who create to have a salary for us? Nothing. Nothing! As these 200 million euros are for those who are employed in the public sector and who, yes, have also been saved in recent years because of the public financial picture. But there won't be any economic growth. But when you go to lowering gross expenditure, gross gross wages, that they will actually have some of it, and people and employers, when you do this, to reduce the cost of work, and then I will believe that you are working for the good of people.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	Replica, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	Dear Mr. Mahnic! Obviously, you're not monitoring the data. In the last 11 months of this year, we've had 604 million over-expenditures. It's a lot lower than planned. We are well managed, and we hope that those whose interests you are doing a little bit more than we are, and we are working hard and will continue to prepare measures in the economic field, and we believe that employers will follow this good example and that private sector workers will also be paid what they deserve. Not to mention the education structure and, of course, please, I do not accept the obvious that people who are employed in the public sector do not create any value. That's insulting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Representative of the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you. He forgot to tell his colleague, I think he's got so many seconds left to tell me how much you're in debt for this year when he's talking about some positives. Tell me how much you owe this year! And far from creating the public sector. But I told you who are the ones who bring the most into the state budget. But everyone is creating, we can say here that for a multiplier, the public servant who, because of this, will get – what I know – 50 euros more, will spend those 50 euros in trade.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get Dr. Ange Logar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	Dear President, thank you for your word! Colleagues, colleagues, personally, I will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance, the proposer of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular the area of funding for young people. We estimate this is a problem. We have a completely opposite position, as previously advocated by a fellow Party of the modern centre, Mr Tabakovic, that the distribution of money is a matter of agreement. Here's the problem. And it is precisely in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we want to see that this money, which today is intended for young people, is distributed more fairly and equally. Here's the problem that you're defending the matter, but it's a matter of agreement. That means the one who's stronger, the one who is, will be able to handle the money that way. However, the problem is whether this money also manages economically or not, or whether it would make more sense to carry out another project, but for a project that is more appropriate, of course, there is no more appropriate money. The main objective of this amendment is certainly a more equitable and fair distribution of money, especially for those who allow it, and these are the benefits of students and students through the student service. Personally, I believe that these burdens, which today are tanning student work, have become quite high. I suggest that all those who do not believe that you look at all the calculations, how much the net income of a student is, but what are all the payments that the employer has to pay? I am convinced that today, if it has sometimes been considered that student work can be mainly because of these advantages, which are more competitive, today it is no longer. Then many are searching for various circuits and I am sure that the most young and, above all, the country are lost here. The bill itself is ready, I am sure that this bill is prepared professionally and that it has the basis, above all, for us to support this proposal today in the first reading, but it is always in the second reading of the possibilities for improvement itself. In view of all the words spoken primarily by the Members of the Modern Centre Party, that there will be still time, we will prepare here, on the one hand, I fear that your time is running out. The fact is, you are coming almost in the third year of your term, and given your work so far in these two and a half years, I am not exactly sure that you are going to complete all that you are now defending and that your time will run out. It is also a fact that the proposed law is likely to enable all organisations in the field of youth to make use of these funds; it is mainly for those projects that would then generate added value or benefit. Here are some indications that student organisations are the foundations that are also most concerned with this, and that if they were to reduce funds as a result of this proposed law, they would suffer some irreparable damage, or that they would then run out of money for some projects, which, of course, could be good. That's not true! Because in the same proposed law, we also propose that the Student Organisation be able to run for these funds equally through public tenders. It is important that everyone on the market is the same and that everyone has the same opportunity to access money and, above all, to win those projects that, of course, deserve it. Once again, I will support this proposed amendment to the law. In particular, in view of the fact that there is still a weekend and that the vote on this bill is next week, especially the MEPs of the Modern Centre Party: prove once that what you are saying in public is that I do not know what kind of connecting party – support this proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party law and then in the second reading, we can improve this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	The word has Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you, Chairman. Let me start with one, say, relatively rhetorical question. What's wrong if we decide here in the National Assembly to make more money for scholarships? What's wrong with that? Or to make more money for the Youth Council, or to make more money for student clubs — what is wrong with it? If a total amount of funding is maintained for student purposes, it is likely that someone should be taken. If someone needs to be taken, in a normal country, the one who allows himself to have some extraordinary cases. Look, in the Google search engine, and yesterday, I think it was very popular, I put in the word student functionary. And I'm going to tell you what, as the first ten hits, this American uncle introduced me. They say: Student officials' salaries are compared to the salaries of directors, behind Soltes are student officials with suspicious jobs, once student officials, today politicians and capitalists, militarisation of student officials and so on and so on. The addresses of Slovenian media with pejorative tags are themselves. If I stop at this title once student officials, today politicians and capitalists. If I follow this address, then it is likely that the student official, who has obviously become a politician today, will oppose this, because otherwise there is no normal or rational reason for protesting in the National Assembly or rejecting the proposal for redistribution of funds that goes to any student dispersing the diaspora of those who receive funds and which in some way makes corruption or the misuse of money conditional on all the money flowing into one organisation. So we are faced with an interesting dilemma: whether to maintain a system that obviously doesn't work or where abuse occurs, where some people are getting revenge with money – which I think has been very accurately presented in the debate today, what kind of escapades individual student officials have afforded themselves and what we can read every day in the media – or whether we can change this scheme a little bit and go to student clubs, youth organisations and, of course, to individual students through the scholarship scheme. We can say a very simple equation: those who oppose this change actually support student officials. So those who were obviously once and will be student officials and are today politicians, maybe capitalists, but some of them were obviously capitalists during their student years, and those who would like to help students in some way, make it easier to establish themselves during this student period and that they have more resources for their work. Look, SMC, especially Mr Horvat, said in this debate that the student organisation's irregularities were on the radar. Well, an ex-professor found out there were some irregularities and put them on SMC radar. And then he went on to say that now we will certainly do something about it. Does that statement give you hope? Not now to discuss those who are opposed to this change, as former student officials and politicians today, but from the point of view of a student who has a shortage of resources, who sees what is happening with the Student Organisation, I do not know how they are trying to buy places in Ljubljana and swimming pools and so on, so they are paying for advice of EUR 85,000 instead of having these funds for study or student participation, hearing from one of the more visible representatives of the Modern Centre Party that they will certainly do something about this. One and a half years before the end of their term! Or you have a concrete proposal here where this redistribution finally begins. And that redistribution is important and necessary, we have already seen the position of the Government, which has not opposed this change. She wrote, the government does not object to the intention of the applicants. If you turn this into a normal language, the government, which is very unfriendly to the opposition's proposals, is in fact inclined. Just don't hope to tell this to the Modern Centre Party, which apparently defends the student elite, who obviously decided to defend the status quo – probably because it also has some former student official among them, who, through his connections, has also established that other members of the Modern Centre party so yell at the same horn, is blocking this change in essence. Now we have a reverse function. Now the National Assembly, or most of them, is not the government's voting machine, but in fact one party that has the most Members will be the student organization's voting machine. Look at what we've come up with, that even through the first reading, obviously the Modern Center Party, doesn't want to let go of a law that answers a very pressing problem. And once again, the vote that will take place next week will clearly decide which parties here in the National Assembly represent the elites, in this case the student elites, who are essentially the wishes and interests of each individual representative, in this case the student; the ones to whom this money is intended and whose money must be intended to establish or create an opinion and intellectual basis for our future country. Now there's a much bigger bet on the scale than my colleague Horvat wanted to show. Now the bet is to decide whether we will continue to follow the elite status model in student time, i.e. from the first public participation forward, or whether we will design this system as it should normally be from the beginning, so that those who have direct influence, contact, relationship with students themselves, and then on the basis of this, decide for themselves which functions, actions and things this money will spend. It should be seen that I think that those who understand the heart of the problem and who, like Mr Horvat, have irregularities on the radar, but who want to act, will support this proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mrs Marija Janc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you so much for the word. As I have already said in the introduction to this item on the agenda, the revised way of dividing concession fees alone will not achieve the objective that the drafters want to achieve. Therefore, it will not ensure transparency, efficiency, efficiency and efficiency of consumption. This will only be ensured by a change in the system law. It has already been said that today is the last meeting of the working group preparing this law, and it has already been said that in the coming week this law will also be published in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Vice President. That is not exactly what the Secretary of State said that we want to achieve greater transparency and that we will not. How can we not achieve greater transparency if, according to our proposal, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth divides a significant part of these funds? And what else do we want to achieve with this law, Madam Secretary of State? That more young people will get that money that they don't have now. It is said that our law follows and brings exactly the two goals that we want in the Slovenian Democratic Party: that more young people will receive money from the student work, because the Youth Office will be able to prepare an invitation and distribute it to various youth and student organisations – that is first – and thus have achieved their goal. And the second thing we want to make more transparent is what will happen. If we put the money out of this into the grant fund, do you now want to tell Mr. Pogačar that they will untransparently grant this grant money? I don't think they're gonna make it transparent. The Youth Office will also grant money transparently. Students' clubs will get that money, too. But this money that the SOS will have, which will be substantially smaller, is that on the one hand they will not be able to spend more untransparently because of this, and there will be supervision by certain security guards in this law that you are now preparing. In short, we have achieved the purpose of this law. Our goal was to get more young people this money, to resuscitate resources, to be more equitable and to work for young people. That by giving an additional million, about a million EUR four hundred more for scholarships, maybe someone will stop serving their student work because it is being served now because they have to, if they want to survive or if they want to study at all. In short, in the youth of our party, in the Slovenian Democratic Youth, we have prepared a law with our party that now allocates about 9 million euros to a new one: a poor 4 million-dollar office, a good three million remain a student organisation of Slovenia, 700,000 euros about for student clubs and about one million 400 for scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes. Dr. Mitja Horvat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm sorry, I thought if you'd give others a chance to participate in this time-sharing. I simply have to react to some of the things that have now been said towards the end of the hearing. Indeed, we believe that these solutions offered by this law can also be acceptable and that they can lead to a better solution than it has been so far, and I am pleased that you have clearly come to appreciate your error when you have adopted the provisions that you now want and that you are also proposing to adopt. What I specifically pointed out in my debate was that the path was not the right one. In case you haven't noticed, the ZUJF has recently started saying good-bye for a simple reason because it was. From many debates so far, we want to maintain the ZUJF and obviously not as bad as they say, but we say that the issues that have been settled with the ZUJF need to be settled; to address in a systematic way and slowly the negative consequences that the Public Finance Balance Act has basically caused when it has reached 38 laws. Of course, the path is not so simple that I simply say, okay, and we cancel the ZUJF, and all that is set out in it is not possible because nomotechnically different laws have been changed. I therefore stress once again that the amendment to the ZUJF is not the right way. The objectives were clearly different from those you are presenting today in this consideration, because, once again, you wrote yourself that there are no implications for the budget if your proposal is accepted. Of course I have to answer Dr. Logar's findings. In no way are we concerned with maintaining any privileges of anyone, and especially not with young officials. However, we believe that, when it comes to organising students, students must take care of themselves within their organisation so that these irregularities do not occur, and of course we must all take sides. Therefore, in principle, I do not mind but I have just suggested that in this case it is not so much a proposal to amend the Public Finance Balance Act as a specific form of State-level oversight of the functioning of youth officials. Let us take another look at the public financial effects you are talking about. You say, more funding for scholarships – according to my available data, the funds remain in line. Why are they staying? I don't know. We will certainly have to pay enough attention to this too to see, because there are certainly students who need these funds and if they are intended to be scholarshiped, that is, the purpose of these funds, these funds must go to scholarships. You will remember, when I was interpreting towards the end, I specifically warned that there was no reason for people to live below the threshold of poverty, that people were hungry. The means must be sufficient, enough is enough, but of course we must allocate them for what they are intended for. So the purpose of the funds is certainly the first and fundamental thing that all competent authorities can already control. Why did that go so far? I don't know. I still have half a minute, Mr. Mahnic. [[advertising from the hall]] Counting down, counting down, don't worry. So again, let me tell you. With many of the arguments you have put forward, we can also agree, but I cannot agree that there will be a vote on this proposal, which is an incorrect way to resolve the open issues that we are solving within the open procedure with the Student Community Act. This is certainly not a matter of politicisation and political decision as to who someone is. We're moving on together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	Mr Jan Mahnic will be the last to discuss this point. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Vice President. My friend, Dr. Horvath, obviously mixes two things. True, it was this marriage and this division into the ZUJF, but it's not saving. That's not saving, that's what it was. We just put it in the ZUJF when it was a transfer, but it's not a savings because it didn't take anything away. That was the percentage when different things opened up at the time. I think there were over 200 articles of law. We didn't save anything anywhere. It makes no sense to talk about where saving is, because in this case there was no saving, and it doesn't matter what the name of the marriage is. You're talking here in general about the ZUJF. This is the question that we are addressing today and we are addressing nothing more than the funding of the Student Organisation for concessions from the student work. This is currently recorded in the ZUJF. For this reason, we have made a change to the ZUJF without any extension or removal of the ZUJF. We accepted the ZUJF at the time, we defended it and we defend it today. But that's not the question. That's not a question. The purpose was clear, we wanted, we still want what we have demonstrated in this law, that funds are distributed more fairly. At the time of the proposal of the United Left to amend the Student Community Act, we also said that we would support that law. Unfortunately, he fell. We also had our amendments, our proposals, which would add some control between the Student Organisation of Slovenia as far as KPK is concerned, concerning the limitation of the salaries of student officials, as well as the decomposition of their assets and so on. You didn't accept that at the time. Just now, with the exception, I think that only colleague Bratusek said that she would not support the law, no other party except SMC said strictly that they would not support the law. It is so obvious to know which door the student officials have knocked on, but I hear they've just been giving each other the hooks in the last week in this Parliament. It would be interesting to ask if anyone reported any lobbyist contact at the KPK and so on. But if we put this aside, I think it was necessary for a marriage like this, because young people ask, where is the money that we get, they get student organisations through when we work through a student service when we work through a student's guide? And if we're already putting this money into this joint cash register, then at least some of it we want, not only cheaper tickets for a party, but something else that will help in a study that will help quality study that will help to improve later employment and so on. This student organization, unfortunately, doesn't work. Young people have nothing to do with it, but every day they have a wide variety of stories about how this money is spent. If you count how many of these financial frauds have been in recent years, we can only draw the line by obviously having money for the way they spend it too. Young people do not have too much money, too much money has been paid by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. That is why we want to see that, as previously stated, it is to be redistributed in the concession law, so that of the 23.7 per cent now received by the Student Organisation, this 23.7 is to be broken down into this, 3.7 per cent for scholarships, 2 per cent for local student clubs, 8 per cent for the Student Organization and 10 per cent for the Youth Office. And in sums, if, let's say, we round up the student organisation of Slovenia to get around €9 million, we'd get some 3.2 million euros there, the Youth Office slightly less than 4 million, 700 000 euros from local student clubs and 1.4 million from local scholarships. We believe that this division is more equitable, that the money spent in this way will be spent more transparently, and above all that young people will say that we have finally adopted one law that is in their favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you very much to all the discussers. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 20, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 12th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed law to supplement the law on inheritance. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	Good afternoon, everyone on duty! First of all, the Vice-President – I will be in the time frame – please give the President of the National Assembly one protest. See, we have repeatedly pointed out that you plan to work in such a way that on Friday, when the meetings are on Monday and therefore there is no vote, so that the gentlemen can go home and the officers are here. Yeah, but they're here on duty. And we always have opposition laws on these Fridays. Look, that's not how it works. That is why I will start by telling you how we worked when we were in power; so that the laws that the government made up — a little earlier in the cafeteria with some of us — we put the opposition chief on the table at the beginning of January, Mr Pahor. He was willing to SD and, as some leader of the opposition, included 60 per cent of the laws at the annual level. My assignment was – Mr. Horvat listen to this! – as Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister to bring our government laws into line with the opposition. These coordinations gave birth to the following result. Between 60 and 65 percent of the laws passed by the government were supported by the opposition. Mr. Horvath, support! We have also led the European Union, so you don't think you've eaten all the science of this world, you haven't eaten it. This coalition did not support one single law that was created by those who led the European Union. Imagine what you're doing, and please, if you can pass it on to the President of the National Assembly. It's a law on inheritance. What's it all about? It is simply that, as is known to the public, a few months ago we were struck by the good news, which is called 945 wills, which were founded in the courts and property went into the hands of those who should not go. But those who should receive the property after their inheritance did not receive it. See, the National Assembly or the Committee on Justice discussed this at an extraordinary meeting, there was also Mr Klemenčič and the whole of Slovenia spoke about 945 established wills. It's not true at all! There are 5,000 329 of them! This is the exact number because they first served with data after 1991 and forgot to tell us what happened since 1945. Well, we have so many. The law we tabled provides for one thing. By 2007, we had a complete anarchy here. Few lawyers, few notaries, few others at home, and some in the courts — that is, wills. In 2007, we tried to make order, so we gave the matter to the Notary Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to run the central register. And everyone was obliged to take this to the notaries. Of course, citizens pay that to be clear. The courts didn't do it anyway. We now see that the courts did not do so, so they did not respect the law, so with the law before us we are proposing: for the first time, the establishment of a central register of all wills in the Republic of Slovenia at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the government now sees it cost 25 000 or 30 000 euros. It's a terrible asset, isn't it? To the other millions who went somewhere else. So that's what we're proposing and nothing else. And secondly, the Supreme Court is running this thing for free. If we have a country and a Supreme Court and a judiciary that is most expensive in Europe, then those wills can lead to this money free of charge so that citizens do not have to pay. This is the basic proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good greeting to all Members of Parliament and to all those who are present! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, agrees with the objective set by the proposer as the objective of the proposed law, but at the same time notes that this objective has been formally achieved but has not been established in fact. In fact, under the current legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, we have already established a central register of will with the Notary Chamber of Slovenia since 2004. This central register of will is therefore established, and the fact is that this register does not contain data on all the wills that should have been, even though the wills have been created. The Law, which has been in force since 2004, and has also been supplemented by the 2007 amendment, provides very clearly and unequivocally in its 108.b. Article that all those who can keep or accept their wills in that country are obliged to notify the Central Register of the will to the Notary Chamber after the acceptance of the will or in writing the will. Thus, this is the prescribed provision in Article 108b, which has been in force all the time, and is addressed both to the courts of judicial wills and to notaries as well as to lawyers. These are essentially judicial institutions or bodies empowered to accept or maintain wills. Given that these data were not provided in this central register and that there was then a different interpretation of these existing provisions, i.e. 10 years in force, of course the following happened and the logical consequence of this unloving, undesirable event was also that there was a need to amend the legislation. This need has also been expressed in the form of this proposal by the Law of Members and Members, which is under consideration today. However, this case says very well, given that we have the current Notariat Act, which speaks very clearly and unequivocally about how to store and transmit will data in the Central Register of Wills, that it is not a problem in the law and the regulatory framework, but in the implementation of the law. Even if, hypothetically, there was now a new law, this law must be enforced by someone, and these are those those who are the addressees to whom this law applies. Therefore, given that we have a regulatory and institutional framework for a central register of will, which is ultimately also the result of certain transnational acts, which also serves to ensure the quality and timely exchange of such data in a supranational or international environment, it is important to ensure that those who are bound by the applicable legislation will also be bound to respect and implement these legal provisions. In view of this unwelcome finding, I will not say the event, but it is important that we by practical organisational and management measures ensure that the legislation in force is implemented and respected, a state which cannot be proud of any civil servant or official in that country who carries out the positive obligations of the State, regardless of which branch of authority we operate. As you are aware, since last year the Supreme Court – this has also been the subject of debate and consideration on the committees so far, especially for the judiciary, in this well-respected National Assembly – has been clarified, it has been established, that all necessary organisational measures have been taken to remedy this situation, which is illegal and at the same time unacceptable, in the shortest possible time and are also intended for the recommendations of this Committee, which will require both the Ministry of Justice and the Executive Branch of the Authority, as the Supreme Court, to report directly and the Notary Chamber, when the deadline expires in January, to this esteemed National Assembly. All of these five recommendations are being actively and intensively implemented, to a large extent activities are taking place, the wills that have been kept, but they have not been transferred to the central register of data, are being regulated in the same way as the law has been valid for 10 years, and when the deadline for the report to the National Assembly on the implementation of your recommendations has expired, I am confident that we will be able to determine largely or practically fully that the situation is being rectified and that all organisational and management conditions are in place to ensure that such risks will no longer be realized in the future or will only be possible to the least possible extent. Nothing, as we say, can be guaranteed in advance, but it is irresponsible, even if you provide something that you cannot influence. If someone else owes [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	Mr. Secretary of State, your time has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	Good. In short, the central register, which we have for 10 years now, will also come to life after these initiatives have been implemented and, following encouragement, in the form of recommendations from this National Assembly. For this reason, there is absolutely no other need to change the regulatory framework. Therefore, the Government of this proposal does not support the law because it does not seem necessary; that is, it is a normative framework and in fact only needs to be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The United Left Group, or its position, will be presented by Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	Good day again! Since I am a spatial sociologist, I would first like to welcome Members and Members of the State of Styria and – here we have one candidate, perhaps two, from other statistical and cultural regions of the state of Slovenia. I'd like to invite a young colleague to play a game for us. I'm also joining this aggregated state of Thursday afternoons, probably someone watching it thinks that time is running slower in Styria than in the other boilers, and that's why we're staying here longer because we're getting started later this afternoon. Or in Notranj and somewhere else. Good – Friday is a day for bullets, we said sometimes. Now, the United Left's position. I'm lucky to have enough kids, thank you. In the United Left, we believe that the proposal contains quite a few good solutions, in particular, we welcome the proposal that the registration of data in the Central Register be mandatory and free of charge. I also welcome the idea that a register from a private professional residence organisation should be transferred to a public institution. The central register of will, which was established in 2007 at the Notary Chamber of Slovenia, has never really made a real difference, including because the entry of data in the central register for individuals is paid for the entry must pay €41. In addition, an additional confusion is caused by a vague provision of the Notariat Act, which has led to a different understanding of whether or not will data should be entered in the register. In the United Left, we believe that entering will data into the register must be free and automatic. It is only in this way that we can ensure that data on all wills made up or stored by courts, notaries, lawyers or elsewhere under the bed, are actually entered in the central register. This will actually make the register central, thus eliminating the greater part of the risk of the situation in which the courts are now located. The government opposes free entry, which is why it is intended to be an individual's free decision. The Government considers that the will is not a general right of an individual and represents only an option that some individuals choose. It is true that individuals make their own decisions to assemble and maintain a will with a lawyer, a notary or a court. However, this is not necessarily a decision based on some prestige if I read this position of the Government. Individuals also choose to design and maintain such wills because they do not have sufficient legal knowledge or a sufficiently broad social circle of people in which they could find a trustee to keep the will. This is especially true of older people who often find themselves in social, social isolation. It is also most likely that they will seek assistance in designing and storing their wills with lawyers, notaries, or in court. There is no reason for them to charge will registration services on the basis of their decision to do so. In addition, it is a functioning and up-to-date register in the interests of the government and the courts, as this would help to avoid future claims for compensation. In the light of the fact that the annual cost of operation of the register is only EUR 37 000, we believe that the Government does not have the right reasons to object to the free entry. Entry of will data into the Central Register should become a free service for citizens. It is also good that such a register is transferred from the state to the public institution and, of course, for these reasons, we do not oppose or support the bill, because we are and in this presentation and in the presentations likely to follow, colleagues will state the valid reasons why this is necessary. Thank you and a nice Friday to you all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and fellow Members! In Novi Slovenija, we have already warned about all the dimensions of the consequences of undeclared wills by requiring an urgent meeting this year. In the fact that 72 per cent of the Slovenians do not trust our justice, in many human rights violations, in which we are among the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe according to the number of people in the first place, there is even more concern about the fact that the courts are unable or unable to carry out and provide even the simplest tasks such as the preservation of the will. In this affair, it was the wills that the willors put their trust in the court as the guardian of legality in order to be in safe hands. And if anywhere, then in these cases it is clear who led the legacy process and who is responsible for the keeping of the will, its entry into the register of will and the announcement in this process. In doing so, we are convinced that the present uneven record of the will also bears its share of the blame. Although there has been a central register of will in the Notary Chamber of Slovenia since 2007, a single record has never been actually established, as the applicant must provide the data on the wills only if the respondent so requests. However, that the willors did not make the most of this decision because they may have paid €41 for entry into the central register of the will of the Notary Chamber, is the reason why we have the situation that we have today. Therefore, the proposal to establish a central register of wills at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is a step forward in achieving the rule of law and confidence in justice. By requiring the Courts to enter into the Central Register of wills and wills handed down to the Court of Justice on an official basis, they would certainly avoid the non-declaration of wills in the future. An integral part of the application for registration would also be the name of the court where the will is stored. In such established fuses, the possibility of depositing wills would be zero. In view of the fact that the respondent would no longer pay the compensation for registration in the register, for keeping the register and for entering the data change, the citizens in the larger number would decide on such a way of preserving the will and would no longer be afraid that they would not be declared in the legacy process. This would prevent any unconstitutional and illegal interference with the right of succession in the future. The Government also maintains in its opinion that the establishment or transfer of the register of wills from the Notary Chamber to the Supreme Court would facilitate the work of the courts in the succession proceedings, thus preventing cases such as 945 established and undeclared wills from 1991 until today. Nevertheless, the Government does not consider it necessary to supplement the Succession Act because the legal framework in force is sufficient and appropriate. In fact, it considers that the conclusion of the said wills was only due to the different interpretations of the provisions of the Notariat Act relating to the non-transferability of data on stored wills. What a hoax! If the legal basis is sufficient, then why did 44 courts set up their wills? So did all the courts misinterpret the law? If the government thinks so, then we have to be really worried. The Government continues to take a step further, saying that any similar risk is fully eliminated by strictly complying with the applicable provision of Article 108.b of the Notariat Act, after which the courts must submit a request for entry into the Central Register of will within fifteen days after the will has been drawn up or accepted into storage. Dear Government, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister of State! Are you even serious? With this statement, you can state directly that all of this could be done by now – and why you have not allowed damage to the will heirs if the law has already imposed this obligation on you on 19 January 2017, i.e. within one month, the period within which you have to report on the measures taken to prevent such cases from occurring and to verify the existence of elements of personal responsibility. After an analysis has been carried out, which would show the marked deviations of individual courts according to the number of established wills, to act against the Presidents of these courts. I am talking about the 25th urgent meeting of the Justice Committee, which took place on 19 October on the basis of our request. In a month's time, Christian Democrats expect a concrete, clear response with a thorough analysis. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Succession.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who are still following this session. We have before us a proposal for a law that is trying to correct the injustices that have so far been committed. It's about pursuing the following goals. First, to establish a single central register, one that will be respected and feasible. Secondly, to be established before the Supreme Court, which is to become an institution that is to be trusted. As I said, the judiciary must build trust. And that entry into a register like this wouldn't be payable. It all goes in the direction of the opposite, which is advocated by some who follow neoliberal values. That is, the privatisation of the judiciary is taking place now and in front of us. This means that those who are poor cannot pay and cannot exercise their rights before a court of law. Privatisation took place by transferring the register to the private sphere, which resulted in costs and resulting injustices that we are trying to eliminate. Of course, he's denied control. Surveillance function. And who's the watchman? Presidents of the courts! In addition, legislation has been adopted in Slovenia, which introduced the directors. It is not clear what the powers and responsibilities of the President and the Director are. This is also pointed out by the Court of Auditors. It is said that there are some irregularities in the judicial branch of power, in addition to the already mentioned recruitment, the problem of jurisdiction and responsibility, which is within the jurisdiction of the Presidents of the courts, and it is also right to do so. Of course, the issue also relates to the law that follows at the next point. The damage was caused and this damage must be remedied. I am concerned about the arrogance of the judiciary, which says that they can take a regular course, complain and make use of all legal remedies. Time runs, damage is done, and it is right that those who have made a mistake try to help people to undo such damage as soon as possible, not to send them to justice. They're legally related. Responsibility is primary in the judiciary and secondary in the Ministry of Justice, which should have begun to solve the problem. We may be concerned that the opposition has brought a proposal to Parliament and that the proposal has not been brought by the Minister or brought through the Ministry by any means encouraged by the judiciary. Criticism goes to the state that the opposition must carry on those activities that the state should do and that the government does not follow the opposition's proposals. It is therefore appropriate to support both proposals for legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In the basic resolution of the bill, as proposed by the Group of Members and Members in the amendment to the Succession Act, the establishment and management of the central registry of the will as an informationised database at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the transfer of the central registry of the will from the Notary Chamber of Slovenia to the Supreme Court, as well as the free management of this register, free requests for entry and changes to the register. According to the proposaler, the establishment of a central register of will would facilitate the work of the courts in the succession proceedings, thus avoiding the emergence of a situation concerning the finding of unannounced wills in the courts. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware of the unenviable positions of the family members, the prodigals, the undeclared wills, as well as the adverse consequences that have arisen in this regard. However, it should be noted that the current legislation already provides that data on all wills, irrespective of the body in which they are stored, and irrespective of the entity that forms it, are recorded in the central register of the will, which is maintained as an informationised database by the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. It should be borne in mind that cases of established and unresolved wills are mainly due to the different interpretations of the provisions of the Notariat Act; provisions relating to the obligation or non-responsibility to provide data on the composite and preserved wills of the Notary Chamber of Slovenia for the introduction and processing of these in the central register. This led to different explanations as to whether the registration of the will in the Central Register requires the request of the willor and the payment of the compensation for entering the data into the register. Of course, we are aware and also expect that the reasons and the measures to prevent and eliminate risks will be examined and that everything will be done further so that such situations will no longer occur, not also with regard to the wills that have been drawn up or received for storage at the time of the establishment of the central registry of wills, as well as those that have been drawn up or received for storage prior to its establishment. In the SMC Group, we regret the situation, but the central register in Slovenia already exists under the current legislation, so the creation of a new register is not necessary and we will not support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	Presidents, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! My friend Vinko Gorenak has already praised the Stajerce intros, and then let me do them again today. By the way, Ilka Stuchec sucked up another victory again, so all congratulations. Styerska is looking forward to the whole of Slovenia. Let's move on to the consideration of the law. As it is known, some two months ago, information appeared in the public, and also information that all the Slovenian District Courts had pledged 945 wills since 1991. This information was also confirmed only by the Supreme Court. It is worth noting that these are the wills which have been entrusted to the courts in keeping but have not been declared in the succession proceedings, although of course they should be. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in addition to the law on remedying the consequences and redressing the damage caused by undeclared wills, we also decided to propose a amendment to the Succession Act, which would arrange for such irregularities to continue. It is true that the amendment of the Notariat Act in June 2004 provided for the establishment of a central register of wills at the Notary Chamber of Slovenia as an informationised database. This was true on paper, but what practice is respected, what is the truth today? The fact is that a single record of the will, despite the fact that there is a central register of will in the Notary Chamber, has never been established. This has proved to be true in the above-mentioned case, which is also the reason for the novelism that we are considering today and which, I hope, will be a constructive debate. This case also points to systemic shortcomings in this area. This amendment of the Notariat Act stipulated in the transitional provisions that it would also be necessary when the central registry was established to register the wills held by the courts. The central registry of the will was established, respected, 15. Ten. However, it is true that before the central register was put into effect, the amendment of the Notariat Act had also been adopted, which had amended the transitional provision mentioned above, by instructing the applicants to provide information on the wills to be entered in the register only if so requested. There is, of course, the assumption that the central registry of the will probably did not come to life from this point of view, since the central registry regulation of the will provided that the Notary Chamber was entitled to a monetary compensation of €41 for the entry. In our view, entering wills in the Central Register requires such an approach that no monetary compensation should be settled for the entry. By the fact that the Central Register of Wills would actually come to life – which I stress once again, so far it is not and we believe that it will not be after that – it would be easier for the courts to work in the decision-making process. The point is that money is often the main point at which everything stops. It would be significantly easier to find a will if it is either in a notary record or stored in a notary or made up in a court of law or stored there. This would also avoid or prevent situations like these in the case of unannounced wills. At the same time, we propose a more specific content whereby, after the receipt of the death certificate, the court would only obtain an exemption from the central registry of the will's will on the existence of the will. This extract, which would be free to pay a cash refund, would also be a compulsory component of the abandonment procedure. At the same time, we propose a provision that the Court should ensure that all circumstances of the will exist for the deceased are carefully investigated and that the last will of the deceased is taken into account and that in the legacy proceedings, the deceased's heirs are not harmed in their rights. Otherwise, in the current Succession Act, it has already been mentioned in some way, but it is obvious that the situation as it occurred in the case of undeclared wills could not be avoided. On the basis of all of this, and because we want legal certainty to be ensured in the legacy proceedings and the last will of the fugitive to be followed in a consistent manner, we have prepared this law and, of course, we will also support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with a fellow Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The SDS Group has tabled two substantively related draft laws that we have today on the parliamentary benches. I believe we were all very shocked when we learned that there were as many as 945 undeclared wills in all 44 district courts in the country. That's a big number. Just thinking about the situation in which the great error of the courts led to the finding of the willful heirs as well as the legitimate heirs of the scapegoat's property, it is clear to everyone that these cases must be resolved as soon as possible. We are also well aware of this in the Desus Group. But today we are not talking about this issue for the first time. We have already adopted conclusions on the Committee on Justice, together with the opposition, calling on the Ministry of Justice, the State Defence, the Notary Chamber and the Council of Justice to take appropriate action and resolve the situation. According to the assurances of both the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice, these measures are already being implemented. Guidelines have been adopted on how to act in the future, an analysis of the actual situation has been prepared and, which is very important for the Desus Group, elements of the personal responsibility of employees and officials in the judiciary will be examined. In our view, the Presidents of the courts responsible for the conduct of the courts should be responsible for the situation. Furthermore, it was concluded that, in order to avoid a fair procedure which could be imposed on the grounds of undeclared wills, criteria for the conclusion of out-of-court settlements should be developed. Thus, the victims will not have to be acquitted and lawyers will have to be paid for these purposes. It is also not to be overlooked that both the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court, who both regret that this has taken place, have made an unacceptable assessment of the situation. Therefore, in cooperation with the Notary Chamber and the Office of Defence, as has already been said, they have already approached the implementation of the relevant measures. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on succession, as proposed by Members and Members of the SDS, will not solve the issue of undeclared wills. The proposal suggests, inter alia, that the establishment and management of the central registry of the will as an IT database be transferred to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, it should be made clear that the legislation in force already provides that information on all wills made in the form of a notary record, on the wills stored in the notary, on the wills drawn up by the lawyer or handed down to him in custody, on the judicial wills and wills issued in the custody of the court, on the basis of the provisions of the Succession Act, shall be recorded in the central register of the will, which shall be maintained as an informationised database by the Notary Chamber of Slovenia. Simply put, the central register of will already exists and is not a rational establishment of a new registry, but it is necessary to ensure that the already established central registry of will becomes central in the full sense of the word, which will also be ensured by measures already under way. So, in the DeSUS Group, we will not support the bill. However, we expect the competent authorities to come as close as possible to the victims as possible and that such unacceptable cases will no longer occur in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The text is given by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Now I see that the officers have already gone home, and the SD doesn't even have an on-call. But okay, that's not my problem. I have to go through these things. Okay, well, I'm gonna start at Mrs. Poropat's so she won't get away from me, won't you? [[…]] Okay. And I'll be very gentle, you know you won't cry. Look, you were shocked. Isn't it nice that you were shocked at 945 unannounced wills? Grab a chair. There's no 945, there's 5,000 329! So now you're four times more shocked. I was, too, but we did something to fix this situation, and you're just shocked. You're saying you'll check the liability. Now tell me, in 1945 someone wrote a will, died in 1950, the house was given to an heir who was not supposed to be an heir. But those who should inherit did not inherit, but they all died a long time ago. Now tell me, how will you find responsibility, who will be responsible? The President of the Court? He died in 1970! So, what responsibility will you find? You can't. If we could talk about personal responsibility, then we could talk about the personal responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts, who are today the Presidents of the Courts for a time since they are the Presidents of the Courts. We could be here, and if Mr Masleša wanted to – or he is not now – now I don't know who he is, Mrs Bettova – if she wanted something, she could do something. But she said to herself, No one is to blame, and we will do nothing. Let's get him to sue. So, where do you get the claim that responsibility will be verified? Is that what you call it, for a better impression, perhaps because of the electorate? The victims won't have to be acquitted, the settlement will be made. Yeah, where? I've got a lot of stuff here on the table when people send it to me when they start turning to the defense and the defense – you can see, I'll show you – he says: sue them! So what have you done so far and where did you claim that the victims will not need an excuse, but that it will be a settlement? Attorney-General's Office is currently writing the answers – sue! So he doesn't hold your claim. The SDS proposal will not solve anything – how well you appreciated it! Why don't you write your proposal? You write your proposal because you know it'll save you later. Or knock on the minister's sleeve that you set up without my will. He didn't become Minister, not by will, not by will, not by will. Then do it. Look, you've explained well how everything works. We already have a central register, we don't need a new one. Yeah, who's proposing a new one? Who's proposing it? We have proposed transferring the one that exists to the Supreme Court. That's me. I know it's not easy, I agree, but a lot of things are not easy in this country, but they can be saved. To lead the European Union, you have not yet tried this. You can't get to the opposition with any law. You're saying everything counts, we don't need a new one. Yeah, no, it doesn't! We have 5,000 329 injured, who, I don't know, have inherited a house, cash, land, I don't know what; a weekend, anything, a farm, if you want, you shouldn't get it. Someone who should inherit it didn't get it. And you say how everything works. If it all counted, we wouldn't have 5,000 329 cases. Yeah, that's nice of you to say. I'd like to give you a round of applause. Let the government go to the victims. I'm not going! Except for some tests, if they've done anything, she hasn't done anything by now. The D.A. says to the victims, go sue. It doesn't work together, Mrs. Popotat. Mrs. Kramareva is still here? Yeah, it is. Yeah, well, that's okay, you got the government's opinion. You also said you didn't need a new registry. We're not talking about new things. We are talking about a registry that will be established in the Supreme Court – for how long? 35,000 – that's the cost. Do you know what that is? [[…]] Nothing for the state budget. Nothing at all. That's how much? One month's counseling to Mr Cerar or as much as I think they'll get more of those Israelites who advise him to pass me by, but don't tell me a good day. [[…]] That's what he does. We've known each other since the year 2000, when I signed a contract with him for deleted, but you know, he did his job fairly, everything was fine. And we always said, "Hello, how are you on the street?" Now I say to him, "Good afternoon, and look away." But you know, that's it. Sorry, that's it. That's your boss! But look, you say everything's fine. It's not all right! If we could make some effort, we could find arguments for this claim or arguments against our proposal. I was just thinking about what you would say and what arguments you would object to, and I would find better arguments against your law, and you would. [[…]] I really would have found them. I could really find them, but you didn't find them, but you took the opinion of the government, which was written by a "dad" there at the Ministry of Justice, and that's it. I don't want to insult anyone, a Justice Department official, to be a more precise public servant of the Ministry of Justice. Okay, okay. That's what you took. Solve the problem, people. I didn't see that happen. Mr Dobovšek, thank you very much for your support, the same as Mrs Dimičev, Mr Trček. Look, now the government says it would cost 37,000 euros. How much? What kind of money is that? Now I have to have some idea, but you know. This is the annual income of a senior official, net. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, there's probably no other will if we're talking about someone losing their house, losing their farm, losing their land, losing their cash. It's nothing! As for Mr. Staret, that's the situation. You say we already have. Yeah, we have a central register, but it doesn't work! We also have the Ministry of Justice, and we have you there, and Mr Klemenčič, who, with fire and sword, peels onions. Yeah, those are his words. For example, he said at a presentation in the National Assembly that it is against the novels of laws, but that laws should be written systematically and planally and in general, as it stands. That's great! Just like he predicted, but, uh, he's gonna land a 747, and then everyone's gonna watch what happens, and the fiche's gonna fly down the track. Why? Since of all the laws he has brought to the National Assembly, he has brought the information three weeks old — one marriage eleven novels. And 11 novels. But he splashed how the novel would not; that he would not allow it! With fire and sword we go above the law! That's it. And now you're saying we have a central register. Yeah, we got him, it just doesn't work. And you say you agree with the goals. That's great! Great. You agree with the goals. Then support the marriage. Or write yours. You can write yours. Everything is arranged in marriage — yes, of course, everything is arranged in marriage! You know what the government law says, the marriage, I don't know which one, anyway. But if it doesn't work. In the shortest time, you will be recovering the situation — I would be very happy to. But as long as the D.A. sends notice: sue, then the answer is that the situation will not be rectified in some normal time, but it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It encouraged me to sign up for the word, first of all the position of honourable Mrs Dimic, because I got the impression that it was a misunderstanding. Speaking of saying that the government or the ministry aren't serious. I just couldn't understand. Now, I am going to argue this, because I believe that I appreciate your opinion, I know that we are always very much arguing, explaining your views justifiably. In fact, we were shocked by everyone in this country when this came to an end or early in 2015. Mr Vinko Gorenak, Member, the drafter of this law, initially stressed that it is not only 945 wills from 1991 to today, but thousands from 1945 to 1991. Now I will use the skills and skills of rhetoric for which you are outstanding, every honor, and I will say this: from 1945 to 1991 this government was not in this responsible position. From 1991 to the end of 2014, this government did not exist. But there was a number of others, including your government, and I'm shocked you didn't find that out before. In fact, it's all happened before, just like you found out. That's interesting. It wasn't discovered. What's the reason? Maybe what you're assigning to us now. We have come to this responsible function where we are at the end of 2014. At the beginning of 2015, we are informed in media publications at the Ministry that the problem of the established will is identified in the Gorica court, that the following day we will take the initiative to prepare a letter to the Supreme Court and receive feedback that they have identified and are already preparing organisational and management measures to determine the actual situation and to remedy matters. And this esteemed assembly and its committees, including the Justice Committee, have addressed this issue thoroughly, adopted recommendations and Mrs Porotat has taken them up very correctly. These recommendations contain what you do not know where it says; that analysis of the situation will also provide a basis for possible responsibility for those who have not done their duty. So are the Presidents of the Courts. The deadline for implementing these recommendations is January 2017. At that time, in addition to the four recommendations, all activities are carried out intensively, as has been said and reported through the Government's opinion, in order to ensure that the law adopted 2004-2008, including the rule predicting and ordering the payment of €41, is not implemented. And the fact is that we are now going to fix these things to the greatest extent possible. With this word game, you don't propose a new central registry. In your second article, when you write a provision on the establishment of a central register of wills in the Supreme Court, there is no record of transfer, neither in the explanatory statement nor in the transitional provisions. In short, it is a matter of some verbal games and impression that makes no sense and meaning, and it seems quite irresponsible to me, but above all it seems unacceptable to me that what was a shock to me, that none of you who had this opportunity and opportunity in the past, Mr Member, do, I will say, April 2015 did not realize. We have come to these functions responsible, as I said, at the end of 2014. That's why I find such rhetoric unacceptable and, in fact, impression making. However, I believe deeply, as a longtime public servant, that it is not a problem in these laws, as it is not in this and in many cases, but is a problem in the implementation of the law. We can now write a new law, including this new law that you are proposing, I believe that with a good purpose, some or others will have to implement it, take into account, respect more or less responsible, serious, consistent and thorough. And here's the problem. Therefore, I ask that what has also been expressed in the opinion of the Government, you can believe that this is a serious purpose, all activities are going on. I strongly hope that, as is being set up, the situation will be rectified and that, in the future, with the existing normative framework, these problems will no longer arise. Because these are really unacceptable situations and difficult to grasp for someone who experiences such a thing, and this is a great responsibility for us, and that is how we perceive and act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I'll be sharp. Look, none of you personally and Mr. Klemenčič had anything to say for the time you were away from the Ministry. Who can tell you anything? But what we're telling you is that now that you're responsible and when this is discovered, you don't act. Now I don't know if it's accurate or not that you found out 2015? Did you make a vow? You said 2015 or 2016, you said 2015. If 2015 was discovered in Novi Gorica, it means that it takes two years, when nothing has happened yet, and that you have kept a drawer for a year and a half. Why did you not also inform this national assembly about what happened in January 2015? Or the public. And second of all, Mr. Old, you're giving me irresponsibility. You were 14 years old. You had nothing under your nose when I first met you. I've done a lot of things in my life, and I'm sorry for a lot of things — in relation to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know if we got things wrong, but... If I go back to your statement when you said I said you were not serious. Yes, of course, if you claim or say in your presentation that the matter is regulated by law and that it is essentially to be carried out, if in some way, I can say, however, article 108.b of the Notariat Act states that in fact all lawyers, both courts and notaries, must report in the central register of will within 15 days. Does that mean they didn't report it or anything? Yeah, but, well, well! From this title, if they have not reported, it seems to me that it is easy to correct, review and, last but not least, sanction matters in some way. You are bound by the conclusions adopted at the meeting of the working body of the Committee on Justice. Here I have five conclusions, which were actually adopted also by the votes of the coalition and, for example, we will wait another month in Novi Slovenija. However, in the SDS they proposed a system that would actually be more transparent and would have less access to these views in the register itself if the case had been transferred to the Supreme Court. But look, it seems to me that we all want the situation to improve, but of course I have to touch myself here when it was said, and I think Mrs Popotatova said how and what and also the proponent, Mr Gorenak, said that the defence says to the injured person that it is necessary to sue. I think that this was at the heart of our call to look at and those injured, not to send them through the defenses into some long-term, long-standing lawsuits to come to this, but to simply not know how many. They know all who they are, that this matter is, of course, arranged for them in some way. That's what I expect. Last but not least, since this is also stated in the second decision, which states that the Ministry of Justice, together with the State Defence, has agreed to avoid legal proceedings which could have been imposed on the grounds of unannounced wills, and within three months of the adoption of this Decision, establishes criteria for the possible conclusion of out-of-court settlements in such cases. Well, if it's not a secret, it's really gonna be a holiday in a few days, but then it's here in January, when we're gonna have to figure out what the conclusions are, and maybe what the word on your part is, if you're talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As it is said, the activities are going on intensively; now these meetings, the number, the arrangements are pointless to talk about, but I can serve you with data dated 7. 12. This month, therefore, 23,000 wills have already been registered in the Central Register, and 30,000 of these old ones have already been identified, who are in the custody of the courts and will also be provided with data on these wills in these timeframes in the CRO for registration. Thus, in a relatively short time, 53 thousand will be entered in the central register. In any event, there is no doubt about the correct application of the applicable provisions and it is only a question of the care and integrity of each individual employee or those responsible in the individual district courts, lawyers, notaries who have such competence to exercise this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, I think both proposals are very correct. We have made it clear that there are even two time periods; from 1945 to 1991 and from 1991 to today. Thus, we have made it clear that we have been explicitly precise precisely to know that it is a long time for different people to have been employed in these courts, both in the Ministry and in the Supreme Courts and in other areas. I don't think it's fair that you're watering now, if you're in the SDS, now you want to pour it all on us again. That's not true! The current situation has been established and our only wish has been to settle matters. It is true that such recommendations have been adopted on the home committee. What are the recommendations? We recommend it. But the question is, what's going on? I'll tell you now. Before, you said what you were doing, that you didn't find out. So did you — what did you do? Because this thing just happened to fall out. She cried out to you in public because you didn't discover her because you wanted to do things systemically and go looking for her, you'd find that. A staff member — I think she was even there for a while — found this matter, so you can’t afford things that you can’t afford. It was an accident! See, March 2015, two years ago, Mr Maslesa began to discuss these wills on the committee when we discussed human rights violations. Two years ago, and he said, yes, he hurt us -- of course, he didn't tell us the numbers. No one at the time may have even thought about what width it was, but he said, yes, yes, we want to make things right, we sent customers to follow some legal procedures. So, they're pleading. This was the Supreme Court's solution. Not some kind of automaticity and to get back to them what I did to them and take full care of it. They should begin to justify what the state has done to them. You can imagine, they take something from you, they give it to someone else, because what you wrote got lost, for example, or me, and then when you find out that you already have such an emotional dimension, it doesn't end with dignity. Even something that brings this to the families involved. None of us can know that. I don't think we want that feeling, either. But the fact is, it's impossible to fix that. But when it comes to correcting what the state is, however, the main institution is now the state of this problem and this solution, but it is to settle it. That's why our proposal is to move things to the Supreme Court. You've previously reported that there's no record of transmissions anywhere. Then it means you haven't read the law. Article 4: “The central register of the will established by the Notary Chamber of Slovenia as an IT database shall be transmitted within one month of the application of the act referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article to the Supreme Court.” You haven't read the law either! That's sad. So it's just that it was prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, so it's not even worth reading the law, but it has to be rejected. That's how you do it. That's not right. Then talk about what this price is. She's funny. You have nodded yourself before, but I think you personally agree that it is probably not a means that covers one will on average, because it is often a property. I think they're really small funds. If you want, we'll find them in a lawyer's contract with someone, when it comes to state affairs, what banks, when we pay lawyers, we find that money quickly. Mrs. Klemenčič will give up a little bit, and she will. Or Mr Zidar will rebuild the castle a little less, or a little bit slower, and we will get that money in. It's a change, you know. Something else bothers me in this position of the government, and you'll explain it to me. For we write that this transfer to the Supreme Court and that the registration of the will is mandatory. And you write in your reply that what it looks like, given that the wills are not something compulsory and that why taxpayers would pay for it, because it does not apply to everyone. On the one hand, if we do this as a requirement that these things be resolved, and on the other hand, you know, if they are not required, this argument is ridiculous. In fact, all citizens are paid in a health check and some – because I do the most, but they are also those who have never seen the health care home from the inside, and they will not say that they do not need it, why would they pay for it. So this country is also a country where taxpayers pay taxes, and so on and so on, and some things they don't need. I don't think the argument lasts, but even more so, because we think wills should be registered. What were the proponents, the Slovenian Democratic Party, a wish? Just help and make things right. It's a transfer, it's the same person who's still working, and it's the only 41 euros that's going to come back, that's not what it would be. We are convinced that this matter would be much more effective, perhaps even saving if this matter were put in the way it is, because now there are problems. Many searches, many more coordinations, many longer periods of time to deal with the process. Perhaps all of this would be cut short because we are also talking about the process ahead. Thus, I do not think that there are only negative consequences here, that there are many positive effects, and that in the end they would be financial, but simply not in the first sentence, but in the first reading they obviously do not want to give this law a chance. I really don't see the point here. Now, if the Slovenian Democratic Party is written above, I think that colleagues would even let any other sign. It's in our interest that this thing is settled, that we don't want to take advantage of anything. Well, there were some recommendations and the fact is you can look for responsibility; everything nice and good, but we'll see how much we can do about it. Such a transfer of the register and the central system of the matter, which is not working now, and I think because things are payable, it will not be in the future, because we will not have it all together. People won't make that decision. You have no obligation, secondly financial consequences and people do, as Mr Trček said before, put them under the bed or in some pocket. Just because someone doesn't have the money, then maybe they do a much bigger tragedy for everything than what they leave is worth it. As I always say, sometimes the emotional dimension is much stronger than the material dimension itself, because people deal with other things about it and other family issues that sometimes have very, very tragic stories about it. Here I see only a useful matter, and with what will follow after the consideration of the second proposal of the law, I really hope for reason, at least at the hearing. I was happy when we, I think, had had quite a few good discussions on the parental committee at the time. We also agreed on some things because each one of us thought a little bit about these numbers. Now we're talking about the number 5,000 329, but look, there's so much will. Do you think how many people are involved in this? These are the wills, these are the ones who wrote the will. This number can go into 20, 30 grand because it rarely happens that someone leaves just one, too, but you know how it goes. Here it has happened to many of our citizens and citizens of injustice, and the fact is that this is messed up by the courts, by the state. It is our duty to regulate a system that obviously does not work, and even if we see the decisions that have been made on the committee being implemented, as far as responsibility is concerned. It's just that the system will still be the way it is, because one thing, for the first time, it's not mandatory and it's payable. There is also an additional reason why people do not act in this way, and I think that the courts have much more work to do than if they only got the transfer of this register, they make copies and then it would certainly be much easier for the judges themselves to come to some information in the proceedings. It's a relief to the judges, if you ask me, I mean to facilitate their work. So think about it, and maybe just give the marriage a chance, and then the matter will still go to trial, you can look for another solution, we never said that we ate all the knowledge of this world, but not just reject it. You cannot say that a solution or a major solution is not beneficial. He brings it, he brings it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the misrepresentation about the transfer. I looked at this 2nd article, but I'm not perfect, I don't have all the texts, I don't even have the opposition laws in my head -- you're right. However, I would like to point out that this Regulation and the provisions governing the essentially payment request were adopted in 2008 in the summer. And when properly applied, regardless of the price being high, we are already in the process of, I think, a month or two ago, proposed as the Ministry of the Notary Chamber to lower this tariff. As a reference price, we have taken a judicial fee that applies if you keep your will in court physically. Physically, it means quite a few technical, organisational measures, that is, the care of someone who keeps it, in this case the court, and is a fee of 10 euros. This is about data, i.e. metadata, about these facts, but it's €41. But when properly applied, the law and the rule of law cannot be limited and affected by the right of the trustee because he did not pay. Why? This is because the notary tariff also determines which notary services can be paid in advance or requires an advance payment and which is to be paid after the service has been performed. And entering the CRO, that is to say, the central registry will, is a service that is paid after the service has been performed. So, the legal security of the trustee is ensured, the function of the CRO is realized. This was about the interpretation of the law, so I always emphasize, believe me, that in good faith. Even this law, yours, which I have no doubt has a good purpose, should be implemented, and if it is not well, properly, as it is not, the situation would be the same. So it is not a solution in law, the solution is in implementation, in the careful, responsible, serious performance of the tasks entrusted to us; those who perform public functions. I can see it so easily. This system framework does not have any shortcomings, the weakness is only in application, consistency and care. Sometimes I use the illustration, when someone finds a reason for something not to happen or to be ineffective, it's a bad marriage, it's not one. Look, it's like they're giving me, I don't know, a new closet, and you don't have anything to put in there. You got what you got at home, and you can put five more closets, and you can put what you got in those closets. We need to invest in this human capital that we have, that we will all develop together, that we will be more careful, more responsible, that the value will be that we make the most of what we owe. This is the solution, not that we are always going to change some laws when the problem is identified. I believe that deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u134	That's it. The fact is, so far, it's in the law that this is not mandatory to enter wills. System to register. No, it's not because some people don't let them record. That's right! Then they don't have the money. You say that this option is also now – and that's true, I read that – that they do, of course, and then they demand that money. Then look at the mess we've got. Some who are responsible in this country fly fast with those euros, and you write in here, because you know, those who don't pay, and then we invite them to pay, and they call again. See, here we have even bigger double criteria. [[…]] And for these 35 — or I don't know what the amount is — thousands of euros. Let's give this free, and this is also a bill, and it's not regulated in your marriage. So it's not just a transfer, it's also free in this law. I think that sometimes it is necessary to change the law because it turns out that even those who have been have not achieved their goals. We believe that if the case came to the Supreme Court, if there was a council of everything, it would be free of charge to be much more useful. Here, obviously, we're not coming together, but whatever our purpose is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for the mag. Dusan Verbich and Mrs Teja Ljubič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, all the citizens accompanying this meeting! We are all, what should I say, to choose an expression that no colleague will then mention to me what I have used, worried. I was also very surprised when I heard from the media that this had happened, that there were suddenly wills in court. Honestly, I don't know how this could happen, but it did. I understand now, too, the intention of the proposer that somehow this law is trying to remedy this damage that has occurred and to correct it further so that such situations do not occur. Let us recall all the Justice Committee on which we have addressed this subject on the proposal of the NSI Group of Members. Together, we have then drawn up a decision that, among other things, we have called for a report on the situation, the number of issues and the number of responsibilities, so that we will not be able to reach that deadline, and then we will see what is at stake. Now, the proposaler proposes that the register be transferred – no matter what it is called, the point is, what the content is to transfer something from one register that already exists, and to be made in a registry court, of course, must be established in a registry court. How? We're just passing it on. We'll have to make a new one there. Yeah, we'll transfer the data, but the court will now have something that it doesn't have right now. You can say, we didn't explicitly write it, but actually it would have happened, we should have done it in court. Yes, we're transferring data and everything, but actually that would mean a new register in court, and that would make things unnecessarily complicated in my opinion. Now only the court has told the Ministry that they have taken action and that they have begun to adopt one rule, that these identified irregularities have begun to be eliminated and that that register at the Notary Chamber is somehow, how can I say, full, and that this will be further remedied. Even if we were to adopt this law and refer the matter to the Supreme Court, we can't get the case back. And now that we're making it complicated and we're giving the court some new jurisdiction, we're putting it back there. I think we're going to get too complicated, cause some unnecessary additional confusion. [[…]] Besides, I agree with you that the court retains as much function as possible of the trial as possible and not some registers. Yeah, because he has a land book, he's got some other registers, but here I think the good solution was that the case was transferred to the Notary Chamber. What if I just mention a fellow Dobovsk who manipulates these words? I'm privatizing the judiciary. Listen up, please! What's a notary job anyway? Is this the privatisation of justice or what? We have decided in this country that we will have some services and now manipulate and say that this now represents manipulation in judicial functions – what is it? I mean, I can't agree with that. For me, from this point of view, this — in addition to causing organizational and logistical, whatever you want — is also a problem, in addition to the unsuspecting cost, that some of the functions that we have brought out of court are given to the court because we want the court to deal with the trial. As for this payment of entry into the register of wills. Look, I am deeply convinced that all the responsibilities for what we do in our private sphere cannot be imposed on the state. It's not necessary to form a will at all. We have an inheritance based on the law, if we're not there to make a will. We can write it, and we can keep it at home, because we don't even have to keep it in court. No one's forcing us. If we make a decision, then it's in the register. I agree that this is a very high cost, a relatively high cost, but for every service or service offered by the court, we always pay a certain cost, a court fee or a certain expense in notary. I don't know why there would be an exception. We have a chance to keep it, but it's only one of the forms to ensure that this will is actually declared. Maybe he doesn't even want the will to be registered there in court or with a notary or anywhere. Maybe I'll, I don't know, want her home, in the closet, and then, I don't know, my son will pull her out when I'm dead, and he'll take her to court from the closet. It seems to me too much to impose these obligations on the state. This is a person who will decide whether or not to register it if I understand the matter correctly. Secondly, I think that, given that the report we have committed to the Supreme Court, in particular, to report on the extent to which the will, who is responsible and so on, we do not even know what the situation is, what the damage is, and what the will is now – we know what the number is, but what the actual situation is. Because now with a marriage solution, the transfer of the register, which is now definitively established when we found this mistake – the mistake was, it came to, no one says that it is not – now it seems to me that it is true, not only that I am now – how is it? [[…]] A former and future judge, as my colleague Gorenak would say, is protecting a court, but I find it pointless to file a case with a notariat at the Supreme Court. They already have enough to do with the Supreme Court. That's where this register already lives. It already exists. When we had notaries and the Notary Chamber on the Justice Committee, the Notary Chamber had no problems with this register and with anything. They said it worked. Now these things are going to move on. And I really don't see why we should bring this to the Supreme Court and impose some additional tasks on it, even because we can't solve it back. Then the subject of the second law is the compensatory State responsible. We told the Justice Committee to make one plan on how to deal with these cases. I was also very struck by the fact that the representative of the judiciary told them to go to court. We don't have to say this to citizens like that! We can't. The fact is that everyone has the right to compensation, if caused by the State, already on the basis of the Constitution, but before that, he has the opportunity to go to the State's Attorney's Office. And there too, the Attorney General's Office has an obligation to try to settle first. I don't know what's going on now in specific matters, how the State's Attorney's Office now decides. This too needs to be seen in what is now going on in these matters. How many of these citizens, who are heirs, have not been declared to be heirs, how many are those who actually apply this compensation, who have not properly inherited, what is in fact? I understand the desire to get things right quickly, and sometimes things don't work out quickly with us, and I was very uncomfortable when it was discovered that this was happening too. But I honestly think that this transfer will bring nothing, will not give any additional work, some additional efficiency in this matter. The things that are now a little more escapent do not need to be brought before the Supreme Court. That is why I will also support the conclusion that the law does not go to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Murgel, there's a few things to say. What if I go from the back? How many are there? Five thousand 329. Most likely, though, because someone who had unduly inherited or someone who should not have died long ago may have died. And then there's more to it than that number. That's one thing. That's another thing. You're saying you can't fix it back. We are not correcting anything in return with this law, nor is it written anywhere in any purpose or principle. With the one who's on the agenda, we're fixing things up. And even there, as I know, the government's opinion is negative. Look what the problem is. Attorney General's Office. I told you what they said: go, press charges. This is the response of the defence to the citizens involved. I'm so glad you made out with your ex-wife and future boss. Look, the system that you belonged to, and you'll belong to it again, causes violations. It also causes human rights violations. The system that I belonged to also has some judgment from Strasbourg. But I'm criticizing the system. And you're a little overly critical of him, or I've heard for the first time that you've given some criticism to your ex and future boss or whatever it is. The problem we still have is you're saying data transfer. Of course it's a data transfer. But for the Supreme Court to establish this, it costs 37,000 euros. We can agree on that. Look, Mr. Dobovšek, I'm not his lawyer, but that's not how I understood him. He wasn't talking about the privatisation of justice. He was talking about privatizing this business, the will. But that's kind of right, if it came to the Notary Chamber and it's got to be paid there, we know that notaries have a special position. And if that's what it takes to pay, that's how it is. I think that's what he meant. I'll explain the matter myself. So it makes sense that this is the case. But the problem that we have, I also ask for information if the Government gives it, whether it is really January 2015, I think it is January 2015, because the minister wanted to blame me on the committee that it was my fault. You see, that's how far this man goes. In fact, he said that the President of the Supreme Court, with a few sentences of principles, was this topic already in 2015 and I protested and prevented it. Oh, that's an interesting story. One opposition member can prevent the entire coalition and the President of the Court from saying what needs to be said. That's political mean and rude, and in boxing jargon, it's forbidden, right there under the belt. The problem we have is what? That we know almost two years for the problem and that after these two years, not the Supreme Court, not the Ministry or the coalition have not come so far as to begin solving this problem today. There's some analysis done, and counting, and everything you're saying. In just two years, this country, in the form of a government, a government coalition and also a Supreme Court, should bring this country so far as these proceedings today run normally. See why this country could have solved the problem deleted in a way that is quite interesting, in the way we proposed in 2000. Oh, yeah, ha ha ha, of course. Oh, sure. I signed contracts with your president. I know what we were doing there. Now I have to explain. In 2000, we passed a constitutional law saying individual treatment and up to 480,000 then tolls of compensation. Yeah, what's adopted in Strasbourg now? Same story. Individual treatment there is up to two, three, I don't know how many thousands of euros are planned. Yeah, because that's what we suggested in 2000, and then the authorities said no. Then some other authorities from the left option in 2011 or when it was already, 2012, not 2013, sent to Strasbourg in such a way and so on the solution that this is now taking place. And why don't we, well, this is the next item on the agenda, why don't we do something for these 5,000 300 of our citizens. Yeah, we got to do something for them, too. But this will be with the next law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, let Mrs Teja Ljubič and Mr Zvonko Lah prepare. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State and co-worker, a very nice greeting! My debate will follow, above all, this point, where there is talk about amending the Succession Act and I will not interfere with another, although the circumstances can certainly be linked. For starters, I'm just gonna ask you a question, and I'm not gonna give you an answer: Who makes a will? The one with the property. To avoid the discussion that some have touched, whether the tax yes or the tax does not. But for the introduction, I would still touch on something, because my debate will be a little critical of my executive branch of power. See, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has written down several times in its decisions, and it is clear that the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia is executed only by a court. Here I am also immediately referring to the repeatedly spoken words of the respected Dr. Vinko Gorenak, who said “the Court of Justice and the blue sky and nothing else.” And in some ways, he's likely to be more and more right. The Constitutional Court further stated that a distinction should be made between the judiciary and the judicial authorities. Who are the judicial authorities? This was also recorded by the court: the State Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney's Office and the Notariat. And here I have a question for representatives of the executive branch: who is responsible for the judicial authorities? The Court itself does not need a question. As far as this proposal is concerned, the proponents have written down in their explanation, and I am also in the position that it clearly, accurately also holds. It reads: “The central registry of the will was established 15. Ten. 2007." I don't think there's any dilemma here. A fellow Member, who has touched this in a certain way in her debate, would still have made some adjustments. It is true that it was established in the old year 2007 but that the record of the will was not actually established to such an extent and in a manner that was believed by those who made up the wills and who handed them over to the judicial authorities to register them. I do have a question here, although it is difficult for the current Secretary of State to answer that, but I still have a very principled question: what about surveillance? For, nevertheless, if the central registry of the will is established, it is necessary not only to manage, receive payment, but also to process that is called control. When I took a closer look at this matter, I simply opened a policy on the central registry of the will. And the fact is, as has already been said in the debate, the Notary Chamber of Slovenia is competent. Article 3, second paragraph, states: “The data on wills recorded in the register shall be sent to notaries, lawyers, courts.” So, according to the legal side, everything's great. When you look at the Notariat Act, Article 109 states: “The Ministry exercises supervision of the legality of the performance of the Notariat.” We also have nothing to dispute here, and I believe that the judiciary is also properly in charge. But when you look a little further, there's no telling who's in control of the Notary Chamber. And I wonder if it's a legal void that's random or conscious. And here, if the Secretary of State could give a few words, I'd be very happy. As far as the explanation of the Government's position is concerned. I must admit, if I am very critical, that what is written in the position of the Government is written in legal, academic and such language and expression without comment. I have no reservations. However, I would ask about this kind of explanation, and what about those citizens whose wills have not been practically introduced into the central register, what they have in such an explanation. The fact is, in the legacy process, the wills they thought would appear in the legacy process did not. But that's the thing next. Finally, however, the question to the proposer of this point. I miss the comparison, in particular, of those countries to which we are traditionally linked. It's called German law. In this context neither Austria nor Germany are mentioned. And it's interesting why not. The Czech Republic, which is close or not in some direction, and Spain, which we know is not subject to German law. And in the end. Does the applicant consider that the transfer of such a central registry is a solution to the Supreme Court? From the debates, perhaps today not so much, but in the past I have seen that there is no great trust in an institution called the Supreme Court. Whether it is then a guarantee that the central register of will, by the time it is before the Supreme Court, will play that role, given that, under a legal procedure or a legal one, such a matter should already be practically flawless in a procedure that goes to the benefit of those who make up wills. So here I have to admit that I have a certain point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u142	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome on my behalf! Unfortunately, we cannot avoid this fact that, in this particular case, there has been an unacceptable and unacceptable conduct by the District Court, which has not been declared in the succession proceedings. Thus, there have been cases that should not have happened. I'm sorry. But let's also take a little bit of positive stuff to look at this. It is important to stress here and also to welcome the immediate response and pro-activeness of the judiciary that the case has not been swept under the carpet. Let's be honest when the judiciary found that this was a systemic problem, the Supreme Court immediately appointed a working group to improve the business process in the legacy proceedings, which examined and carried out various analyses of these business processes, prepared analyses of the undeclared wills that were held in court, and made changes to improve these business processes. I am also very pleased that at the 25th urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice at that time, we took note of this issue and considered it very well. The conclusions were adopted to initiate activities to remedy these irregularities or anomalies occurring in the system as soon as possible. It is true, that the central register of the will, led by the Notary Chamber of Slovenia, was set up several times today. So nine years ago. I believe that the legal framework established by this register is appropriate. Here I must agree with the Secretary of State that there is no need for any new legislation here, but that the implementation of this existing legislation must be ensured. The register is already in place, and therefore I see no need to transfer the register here alone to the court. Here, as said by colleague Murgel, it is not just a transfer, in fact it will be necessary to re-establish the register itself and reorganise everything. These aren't really simple things. That's why I don't think it makes any sense. On the other hand, I think that we also express some mistrust in the Notary Chamber of Slovenia for the management of this register. The Notary Chamber has no problem with this, and I think it is entirely inappropriate for this to be tolerated. At the same time, on the Committee on Justice, when we discussed this subject, they said that they had no problem with their functioning. I don't think that's necessary. As far as registration costs are concerned, you suggest that the entry itself be free of charge. The fact is that the costs of operating and establishing, maintaining this register will then fall on the shoulders of taxpayers. I must agree that the individual has a free choice in the will, so he also decides whether the will will will be made by the notary, the court, the lawyer. If he decides on one of these three ways, he will in fact have to pay a certain tariff. Therefore, if he is willing to pay the tariff to the lawyer, to the notary, I think he is also willing to pay this registration fee. From this point of view, I find it pointless that the costs of keeping and maintaining this register would then burden all taxpayers, including those who may never choose to form and maintain the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u143	Replica has the advantage. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u144	If that were true, then this thing would be alive by now. It's not. The fact is, since the central register was not established in a way that obviously should have been, the matter does not work. Is that right? That's right. The fact is, it's not true to pay. The Secretary of State said it well earlier, and this is also explained in his explanation that some things are not paid because they are repeatedly called upon. In short, the fact is that if this register were centrally regulated as it should be, the matter would certainly be more transparent and it would also work better. Nor is it true that this matter itself is so logical. Once again, I stress what Mr Maslesha was explaining when this happened. Yeah, look, two years ago! Two years ago, he explained that some things had happened, but these matters would be settled in justice. Do you imagine that you must plead for something the country has done to you? And you have to argue with someone who, as a result, got something you shouldn't. That's the subject. One marriage and the other are still somehow related to each other. And what's a replica, I'll tell you. Once again, the replica is quite simple: the thing is not working and must be solved in a way that makes the matter come to life. And the recommendations that we adopted two years later do not in themselves guarantee that the matter will work. This proves the situation so far because there is no change.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. First of all, congratulations on the first show. Yes, yes, let us be proper, and be polite. I know the first performance isn't a simple story. Look, I just want to warn you about two things. You said costs, expenses and expenses. Look, the cost is 37,000 euros. And your boss will give the Israelites 45 grand each month for piranhas counseling, as the data has been published. Do you understand me? Tell your boss to stop playing it with the Israelis first, and maybe something with Slovenian experts will happen. And secondly, you're saying that the court branch didn't sweep under the carpet. I don't know how long you've been following this thing before, probably not like any other citizen. On January 1015, they agreed – do you know when it came to the public? In September 2016, when he was a poor citizen, perhaps even your electorate down there in Cyprus suggested that he should inherit a farm in Bovec for years. But he did not inherit it because the will was not announced and that farm was given to three other persons. Since nothing happened, he went to the Primorska News to complain and published this story. And that's when Slovenia got up and reacted. I think that this claim that they did not sweep under the carpet would still be under the carpet today if the Primorska News did not publish this particular case. If we had fair intentions and serious purposes, the President of the Supreme Court would stand in front of the cameras in January 2015 and say that this happened and that they would do anything to make this part not seem to me. [[…]] Besides, congratulations on the first performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word to prepare the mag. Andrej Shircelj and Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Let me say again what I said in my position earlier. Personally, I'm really sorry that this happened. I am aware of how deeply people are affected by this – both the willful heirs and those who inherited after the marriage, so many years later, we are talking about different years, in short, it has been a long time, but even less – when they learned that the will of the will of the willee was not carried out. And what Mr Gorenak has just recalled about a farm that the willow heir did not inherit, I believe, I know, I am convinced that the man has been deeply hurt that he has suffered an irreparable, unacceptable injustice, which is no longer possible to remedy with a settlement that will, I believe, be concluded in this matter. But he lost his farm and his life went in a completely different direction than it was meant for him. They were inherited by some legitimate heirs who were also probably not prepared to take over the farm and to rule. In short, it's one such story. But there are as many of these founding wills as there are these stories. And they're all heavy. Indeed, I would say that the state has apologized to the Minister for apologizing that we Members apologize to these citizens, but we cannot correct these injustices. That's the worst. Second thing I'd like to say about that. Before, I couldn't replicate to Mr Gorenak when he said that I didn't have the right data when I was talking about 945 wills. Mr Gorenak, my dear colleague, you have written this in your proposal to amend the law on page 3 and I have used it. I think that also the data you gave then – 5,000 329 wills when Jasna Murgel spoke about 5,000 329 wills. Well, I don't have this data, I believe that big numbers are, if we go back and forth, but as I said, every problem and every established will requires a solution and some satisfaction they'll get if they turn to the defense. And I am pleased that both the ministry and the government have acted in such a way that these settlements will conclude that we are not yet burdening these people with the costs of the lawsuits and the prosecution. You know what it's like to be in a court of law, especially simple people, when we talk about this man who was meant to be farming, and he wasn't meant to be, they don't like to go to court. I think it's the right way, and I'm really happy in that sense. By the way, Mr Stare, Secretary of State, has already spoken about these wills when he has received the floor after your debate, my dear fellow, so I will not repeat this. It is true, however, that it is not right to always dissect, Mr Gorenak, anyone who says any opinion. That's my opinion. But it's hard because until you discuss it, you don't have a word and you can't say a line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Now you've told me our request is incorrect, it says 945. You need to read everything. The request doesn't just have three pages I have a lot here. And on the third page, it actually says 945 for the time from 1990 until now, and on the fourth page, it says something else. And it says here that by 1990 there were 4 thousand 384, and if you count those two numbers, you get 5,000 329. So our case is correctly written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you. Well, I meant in that sense, Mr Gorenak, so I also quoted Mr Staret as saying what time this government is responsible for and we as coalition partners. He also said this, and I will now repeat to you that you, too, were in power, the SDS, when you might have dealt with it at that time, and today it would not have been so much less if years ago it had been resolved and found out what was going on in court and then things could have been put in order and saved for a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you very much. No, that's not right, and I have to react in my own way, just like I did before. Look, nobody blames this coalition. Nobody blames this government or this minister. I'd prefer it if I could, but I can't do it for a while before I'm due. Not to blame anyone for the time before the term of office, not even those governments you spoke of. Why not? For a basic reason, because no one knew about the problem. And if no good public servant had been found in Nova Gorica who had found it and warned of it, we would not have talked about it today. So don't blame anyone now. What I'm reading to this government and this coalition is that it's been known about the problem for almost two years now, and the citizens are getting a letter: sue him. Within two years, a law, a special law, could have been passed if you wanted to, which is the point of the agenda that follows, and today we could massively have some settlement with the state and the compensation paid. But you say you can't fix it. The matter must be corrected in accordance with the rules that we have, or those that we will have to take specifically for this, with the compensation paid by the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. As the last of the applicants, he has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is certainly clear here that we are living in a country where, as these figures show, more than 5,000 wills have not been executed. We don't live in a state of law. It's not just that hereditary law doesn't actually work. Inheritance law is essentially meaningless. Protests are part of hereditary law, and this law has not been respected. This has been happening, as data shows, for 70 years. We've had data since 1945. This has happened in the previous country and in the current country. We all basically agree that this is unacceptable. We all agree that, in fact, the last will of man is not taken into account here. And that's why there's been major complications all over the country. This also does not take into account the dignity of an individual citizen or a citizen and, in fact, injustices have occurred. Guilts, many injustices, which some of you say can't be rectified. Among other things, Mrs Jasna Murgel said so. I quote: "We can't fix things in return. We can't fix the injustices." Look, I think this can be fixed and this can be fixed. We have a number of cases where the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, when other courts found violations of human rights, injustice and so on, and this has been corrected. For this reason, I find the view that this cannot be fixed simply unacceptable. Certainly, it will be difficult to bring all cases into a state like that if these wills were taken into account. However, some compensations, compensations can be achieved and, in fact, they must also be legalized and also adopt such a position that this will happen as soon as possible. I don't think this is just a strictly legal issue. I think it's a civil issue. This is about the question of what kind of society we really are, how we recognise heritage law also in property rights. Either he does or he doesn't. And if we do not have more than 5,000 cases in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we must do so from now on. In what way? I think in the way that is now proposed here. Why on this basis? Because the previous way just didn't work. That's what the Secretary of State admits, admits the government, we all confess. I don't blame anyone for that. But it didn't work. Is he actually going to do control himself to make it work more, we really don't know at this point. In fact, the issue of the functioning of all — judicial authorities and even those with judicial authority, such as notaries and so on — is raised here. Here, of course, is the question whether the central registry does this free of charge or has to pay something, are costs and so on. Look, ladies and gentlemen, for me, the costs are in this connection, and at a level and given the importance of costs, I'm sorry, but these are really banal matters. So much injustice as it has happened, that we are now talking about 30, 40 euros in costs for an individual case or if you want 300 euros, whether the state will pay them or not, these are banal matters. Why? And also the government's opinion, excuse me, here I was disappointed by the government's opinion, when it says that this is about things that are an individual and so on, we can have different kinds of will and we can go to the notary. The Notary Chamber, for example, says on the websites, we will arrange everything, no problem, everything will be done, we will send it to the central register and so on, on the websites it all writes. We can make a will through a lawyer, we can have it at home, it can be an oral will if you want. Speaking of wills, it's a civil case. The bond code also solves civil matters. We also have an example of someone solving purely personal matters with a neighbor, with anyone else, and so on, paying taxes or not paying. But that the rule of law works and to ensure some legal situation in the country, people pay taxes. And from taxes, the government has to fund people's legal certainty. That's why there's no question at all, I'm sorry, and I've talked about finance here many times, and savings so on, but it's a simple civil question for people and not for finances. For this reason, I think that the question that this has to be payable and who will lead so on, look, I don't think it even comes up here in the National Assembly to doubt it at all. The State must ensure legal certainty. The State must provide such a fair system, and if it is a register, it will provide this register. And he'll be financed by taxes. The tax is a duty, a compulsory duty, for which citizens and citizens do not know exactly what is being spent. When I pay my income or when anyone pays their income, he doesn't know if this money will go to school or to health care or to justice or anything. We don't know. It goes into the budget, and there it divides, just like it divides. We know that from the budget. That's why it can't even be a question here. Can we get this thing back? Yeah, of course we can save it back. Look, if we don't solve this ourselves, the Court of Human Rights will order us to save our lives. Now it's only a matter of how long it takes for us to do this, how many judicial channels, and how many people we will be, if you want with an ugly Slovenian or not a Slovenian word at all, to get these rights. Of course we have to save it back. That's not even a question. Whether it will be fair for all or not, that is, of course, another question now. And it's a question of an individual. But these injustices that have occurred, whoever has caused them, must be rectified. There's no other solution here. And, of course, it is also necessary to ensure that wills are entered free of charge. I am actually answering all these questions here, even when we are talking, of course, about state attorneys. Even Mrs Murgel, I'm sorry, she was a judge, but I still think she needs to know the role of state defence. As I understand it, the State's Attorney's Office advocates the interests of the state against other individuals who are individuals, and you can negotiate with them. But the U.S. Attorney's Office will always be defending and always looking for the best solution for the country, so we have it. If it does not work well, if it does not work well in international institutions or in the Court of Human Rights in certain cases, this is now another issue, as we have already discussed in the National Assembly. For this reason, I believe that the law needs to be supported in order to eliminate injustices in order to ensure effective functioning, free entry must be provided and the injustices must be corrected in return. There's no other question here. We have to respect our right to inherit. And don't give people the feeling that their last will just doesn't work in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Here you are, Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In your debate, Mr Šircelj, it was clear that you were discussing the law, which will be at the next point, so to speak, eliminating the consequences. However, as regards what you mentioned, registration or registration of data and entry costs, the fact is as follows. This seems important to me because I think that in today's debate we have all come to realize that things need to be completely corrected and that this is not only a duty but in some ways an opportunity to be a just state, not just a rigid rule of law for those, whether one is affected by the rapporteur or a thousand. Every story is a story to itself and is hard to grasp and acceptable to someone who doesn't experience it. We're just talking about it. However, we must respond with great seriousness and care and responsibility. See, in 2004, when the Notariat Act was adopted, and in 2007, when the Decision established the central register of wills, it was clearly stated that within one month all information on the wills held by lawyers, courts and notaries who are under this Act shall be transmitted or transmitted to the central registry in the Notary Chamber. In this case, the Notary Chamber, which is an institution of public trust, reacted as expected and right. Within 20 thousand available wills, they entered the central register. But the courts didn't do it. And when this law was established in order to ensure even greater legal certainty for the rapporteurs, it established and established a register and the obligation to transfer all these data there was an excellent opportunity within one month when this legal period essentially expired to determine whether the law had been implemented in the context of judicial supervision and other controls. All the wills that were created by then and were kept either by lawyers or by courts and notaries, if then the system worked, as we all rightly expect today and beyond, all the things we are talking about today would have been identified by then. At that time, however, the homework was not carried out. Even from the executive branch of the government, to say the then Ministry of Justice, which had proposed all of this at the time, the Parliament had made provision, while also allowing the law, and then the Notary Chamber adopted a regulation in 2007 setting out these 41 euros for entry, or there were other points, which was later converted into euro, and since the start of 500 points at the notary tariff. In your time it was stipulated that this was the way to be paid and that it was necessary to do so, but it was not done. And today we have this situation. I deeply agree, and the Government's opinion also relates to this proposal for a law. As I said before, we estimate as a ministry that this entry tariff is relatively high, compared to a retention fee in courts where there is 10 euro, where will needs to be kept physically, not just data on an information computer system. And it's worth 10 euros in legal fees, and here it's 41 euros, and in 2007 it was determined that there will be no mistake. We have proposed, but it is the responsibility of the Notary Chamber to issue this regulation. We can only give consent. It's like a lawyer's tariff, but that's the law. Let me also answer the questions of the honourable Member of Mr Verbic. This is a fine example when supervision was not effective. But it wasn't effective because it wasn't done. The Ministry of Justice has jurisdiction under the Law on Claims against the Notary Chamber. The Courts also have the same jurisdiction in individual cases of notariat, namely the Presidents of the Higher Courts for those cases which are dismissed or entrusted with the resolution of the Court to notaries, in relation to different legal areas and various matters. In such cases, courts may also monitor whether a notariat performs its task well. And there's no problem here. As it is said, in this context, given what has been happening, I can only find out from the available data that the Notariat and the Notary Chamber have played their role as expected and commanded by law. Even if then supervised by the then Ministry of Justice in the Notary Chamber, they would not be able to conclude that there is no data that someone has not sent. However, they could find, as I said before them, in the framework of the judicial supervision of the judiciary in the courts, that they did not provide data on the central registry wills in accordance with this law. So the Notary Chamber correctly introduced all the data it received and entered into this central register of will. And this task or this concern that this state of affairs in the central registry is now being remedied is being realized. As I said in the introduction, I believe that this will be realized in a relatively short time, absolutely before the date which was also recommended after the debate in the National Assembly. So, in the end, I can rediscover and repeat what I did earlier, the institutions of judicial control over the work of the judiciary, the right conduct of the courts, notaries, lawyers, lawyers, the state prosecutor's office, as you mentioned these so-called judicial authorities, all of this exists, is prescribed. The problem is that it has not been implemented or has not been implemented sufficiently. Here is the opportunity and the responsibility to be even better in the future. Because these experiences are simply incomprehensible to those who had to experience this. However, as regards the elimination of these consequences in the context of a just state, as we say, it will probably be an opportunity at the next point when the proposed law is also proposed. I am also calling on the confidence of the opposition Members to make the most of what we are expected to do, which is in line with these recommendations adopted in the National Assembly. Of course, there are activities and I have no doubt that everything is really going to be resolved. But even if one remains, it's a story we can't be proud of, no matter who caused it. We now have a responsibility and an opportunity to fix it. And that's the essence of our story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Vinko Gorenak's representative, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you very much. This is a performance you should say, you should react to anyway. A drop of opposition's confidence in the government. Dear Secretary of State, you have eight things written in the coalition contract. I didn't write it, you wrote it. By the end of this government, it is an official year and a half, and unofficially probably less than a year. One in eight isn't real. In a public performance, so the Minister's presentation, before he became Minister, I went to examine the entire tape and I found in there about 20 promises, the ones with the fire and the sword, the onion and that. One is not realized. But we are before the end of the term. Then how do you expect trust? It's not possible! And another matter — what was our purpose, and why did we go along with this marriage? We went with this law because – I was sure that we knew about the problem for one year, now I see that I was wrong, we know about the problem for two years almost. Yeah, after two years, nothing happened. Because after two years, it didn't even come to the public. If that Kopra citizen hadn't gone to the Primorska News, that wouldn't have happened yet, we wouldn't even know about it. And secondly, because today, almost two years after this was discovered, citizens receive a letter: sue him. So you're suing a person who unjustly inherited a house, say, a farm or I don't know what. So the problem for citizens is not solved. If you were right, then you'd be running like you wanted to with the wiped out. And we would adopt a special law, which is the next point, and we would start to solve these people's problems. And that didn't happen. That's what these two laws are for. See, these colleagues from Nova Slovenije have also introduced two laws. One relates to the prosecution, one to the court, by which they wish to establish certain special departments in the prosecutions and in the courts for the prosecution of banking crime. If you wrote that, you'd back me up, we'd be in. Well, you didn't. So that's the problem. More about the next marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Time's not up yet. There's something else. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. I wouldn't have called if I hadn't finally listened to the Secretary of State again. I'm really trying to get everyone in this country to understand what this is all about. In March 2015, when dealing with human rights violations in Slovenian courts, Mr Maslesa also opened will matters. There he did not admit what happened, as we have said many times today. Accidentally, as Mr Gorenak said, she was a good employee who found the case. And the matter came to the media and then the story got its dimension. But then Mr Maslesha also said that, given all the data we have, because we were supposed to be doing some data collection by then, it shows that it is a systemic problem. In almost two years, the government did not systematically address the issue. The systemic problem remains. The fact is, it's just that these entries and everything else or losses didn't happen and that it doesn't work. We have therefore proposed a law that would certainly make matters more secure, given that certain matters would be brought together and unified, to help prevent such things from occurring in the future. We also said that it would certainly make the whole thing easier if we allowed these entries and then printed them free of charge. Last but not least, no one has pointed out that the matter also has other substantive solutions, meaning a more specific content when it comes to so-called death certificates on official duty, then a court from the central registry of the will, the existence of a will. This extract, which would be free to pay a cash refund, would also be a compulsory component of the abandonment procedure. This is also an addition to existing legislation, how it works in this area. The fact is, the courts themselves said that this was clearly a systemic flaw. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have proposed solutions. And once again, the committee that was on this subject would not have been called by the minister to come there and say, "Look, this has happened and this, now we are proposing some systemic measures here, are recommendations, that is, that is, that is, third, we will solve things." That wasn't there. The opposition, or NSI, then convened that meeting where some things were identified and some recommendations were adopted. But the fact is that there has been no systemic change and that the courts themselves or the Supreme Court, which you support above all, its summit, you have it all the time, have only found that things do not work systematically. That's what Mr. Maslesha said at the time. And it's true, then the Ministry should act and see what doesn't work systemically. To say, "Oh, because this has happened, now we will control it, and now everything will be fine." Yes, it won't! Things stay the way they are. As far as the entries and everything else are concerned, there are no changes. Even if they are at the Notariat or the Notary Chamber in this area, there will be no unity in this respect because we still have differences. And that's what we're trying to complement here. But apparently, given the coalition's debate, we won't be heard. But that's bad. You know, this is one solution that would probably prevent this from happening again in the future. Tomorrow there will be no Secretary of State, no one else here, and in 20 years, similar things will happen. The system's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u163	Here you are, Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I just want to point out one thing. You mentioned that in March 2015, Mr Maslesa, former President of the Supreme Court, pointed out the identification of this problem and that nothing had happened. April, that's right. In April 2015, a working group was set up to implement this issue in the sense of identifying the actual situation and proposing systemic measures to remedy the situation and not to repeat such matters. This group carried out the task practically within one month. In May 2015, the President of the Supreme Court gave this guidance and guidance to all courts on how to act and operate in relation to the wills, that this will no longer be repeated and that these matters will be settled. And that's what this is all about. So we can't say anything was going on. On the basis of these guidelines, it is essential to ensure proper and proper operation. But now it will be added that other possible risks are as limited as possible so that this will not happen again. In short, the fact is that within one month after you correctly warned or pointed out that the President of the Supreme Court himself had pointed out this problem. Within a month and a half, systemically in the third branch of power, they did so on their own, I think, in the expected appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. There is no replica at this stage. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 20, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 12th, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up the 25th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is a first-hand proposal for a law to remedy the consequences and to compensate for the damage caused by the undeclared vices. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, the group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u166	Yes, the will of the children. Some may say that it is not difficult to lead or to work in the National Assembly. See if we have ever talked about transferring this central register to the Supreme Court, and what are we doing with the law that is now on the agenda? That we're clear. Five thousand 329, Mrs. Popot, five thousand 329 individuals were injured. Their relatives wrote their wills, which the courts did not heed because they had laid them down, and the property of the deceased went elsewhere than the will of those who wrote the wills. Those who have received the property are not guilty of anything. Those who didn't get the property, and none, because they didn't know they were supposed to get it after all. Responsibilities, we have said a little earlier, can be no longer with the Presidents of the courts for a time since they are presidents. What is most sad is what Mrs Bettova said, the current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court knows that this has happened and that no one will answer. Those are her words. No one's gonna answer. That's problematic. In our view and in the opinion of many lawyers, some judges have already said this, things are outdated and cannot be resolved under the existing legal system. I mean, someone's got to get some compensation. Or those who have lost their property should have received it, then they are entitled to be returned to it by the State. But he can get this property, and the state will return the damage to the one who unjustifiably got it, but of course not to its fault. At least, in my opinion and in our opinion, the situation is such that many procedures or a large majority of these things cannot be resolved within normal statutes of limitations. While the government says in its opinion that everything is in the best order, it is possible to resolve everything within the existing legal order. However, the defendants receive a letter from the Attorney General's Office: sue him. So the one that's unjustifiable in your house. That says the problem isn't solved. That's why we've written so called lex specialis, as it's already called, means a special law for these 5,000 329 people. Same as for deleted, if you want. Similarly, in this case we want to resolve the matter with the law by saying: A, those who have an unjustifiably possess property and those who do not have it should have it, agree and agree. There's probably not gonna be a lot of cases like this. The law then provides in Article 3 for all possible options that would lead to a satisfactory objective under the State's Attorney's Office's tactics. This means that the person who inherits an unjustifiable house will remain inside and the state will pay compensation to the person who should be in the house, but it was not due to the error of the court. But vice versa. They can also be combinations of all these solutions. We are therefore proposing a law by which this country is likely to be able to correct, within a year, two years, or in a fair manner, the injustices that have occurred both in one way and in particular those who have not inherited the property should be inherited, at the will of those who have died. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u167	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At its meeting on 8 December this year, the Government considered and adopted an opinion on the proposal for this law to remedy the consequences and to remedy the damage to the National Assembly proposed by the Group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank. The government, in short, does not support this proposal. The proposal for a law is essentially based on the justification of a 2013 Supreme Court decision, in which the Court stated and determined how and from when the expiry date in such cases is considered. However, it is important to add that in 2015, two years later, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the interpretation and justification of the Bond Code governing such relations and issues of obsolescence cannot be equally justified when it comes to infringements of the rules or abandonment of the expected conduct of entities in civil relations compared to situations where the illegal treatment of the suspension of the public authority's duty to act, or when there is unlawful conduct in the exercise of public authority. In such a case, such an interpretation of the law is inappropriate and would also be inappropriate from the point of view of the Constitution. So there is no doubt in this respect that our Constitutional Court has already stated that the criteria and the manner in which such institutions are justified in the event of unlawful conduct in the exercise of public authority are different and for the benefit of those who are injured. This is the implementation of Article 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly sets out and provides for anyone who is harmed by the unlawful conduct of public authorities or public authorities in the exercise of public authority to have entitlement and judicial protection for the settlement of the damage suffered. In a more detailed view of the individual provisions of the proposed law, the Government also assesses that the proposal for a law in this area does not regulate in its entirety and ignores the fact that in certain cases compensation liability has not been given due to the interruption of causation. It also does not regulate other situations, for example, whether the unjustifiable heirs are obliged to return the benefits they have received from the use of the legacy. The current regime governs the area of reparation and possible counterclaims and objections more comprehensively and is more appropriate under the applicable provisions of the Bond Code in the view of the Government. As stated in this part of the explanation, which is described in more detail in the written opinion of the Government, there is no doubt, from a legal point of view, that there are no legal impediments to correcting matters on the legal path. As has already been the case with the previous law, this is essentially about the so-called duty to exercise a just state, which must be done in an appropriate manner, and this means that without additional burdens and damage being caused to those who are affected and injured by this unwanted situation caused by the established wills, this problem will be resolved. All the activities that are being implemented, including in the context of the recommendations adopted by the National Assembly at the Committee on Justice, run in this direction in order to ensure that public authorities, or in this case also public authorities, including the State Defence Office, act in such a way that they are entitled to compensation for the damage, in a way that they will not be harmed again or that they will not be burdened. These procedures, the criteria for equal treatment of all these sad cases that have taken place, are taking place, and we believe that these matters will be resolved in a fair manner within the framework of existing law, which makes it possible, as said, to do so. However, this is not the last-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u169	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u170	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill is closely linked to the previous item of today's session, with the proposal for a new law on succession. Both laws are due to the inadmissible harmful conduct of the courts in keeping the wills entrusted to them in keeping in good faith that they are safe until the start of the desert proceedings. In all cases, that is 945 established and consequently undeclared wills, it was an illegal mistake of the judicial branch of power that the injured willful heirs could not know about. As a result, at least 140 wills also have material consequences for disadvantaged heirs and heirs who have become owners of the trustee's property. Although the law of succession allows for the possibility of justice, in such cases it is not taken into account for two reasons. The payment of compensation shall be subject to statutory limitation periods and to a 5-year absolute limitation period which has long expired. However, the law also excludes the State's liability for compensation in these cases. In view of the indisputable error of the courts, it would also be unacceptable to demand that compensation for the errors of others be borne by the legitimate heirs who have accepted the inheritance in good faith, or by the new owners of the property. Every mistake, of course, if we admit it, is remediable. Since it is not an illegal judicial decision, but a fault in the functioning and organisation of the work of the courts, in a democratic country, we would expect the victims to be compensated. Otherwise, it violates the constitutional right to private property and inheritance and to the recovery of the damage caused by the State authority by its unlawful conduct. Therefore, it is only right that a special law allow for the prompt recovery of the damage caused, irrespective of the time limits in force and whether or not the will was founded before or after 1991. This takes into account the willingness of the injured party to do so. The new deadlines for objectively depreciating the filing of compensation actions will in fact allow for the payment of damages. In Novi Slovenija, we will insist, as we announced in the previous position, on the implementation of the conclusions of the 25th urgent meeting of the Committee on Justice, including the responsibility of the Presidents of the Courts in which the greatest will was established. Minister Klemenčič said at the time that there was no doubt that the State was responsible. We are afraid that these words have been made in mind, or the Government would not have indicated in its opinion that it is already making notifications to potential victims. That's it? Just notices? If the State or the State authority has caused damage by its conduct or omission, it must also recover it, without any excuse to impose an additional burden on the State budget. If we think that 4 thousand 384 wills were undeclared during Yugoslavia and 945 wills in Slovenia alone, this is a terrible data. In Novi Slovenija, we will support the draft law to remedy the consequences and to compensate for the damage caused by undeclared wills.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u171	The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u172	Your Honor! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides the legal basis for the State's liability for compensation, which is regulated by Article 26 of the Constitution. It provides that each person shall have the right to compensation for the damage suffered by a person or body carrying out such a service or activity in connection with the performance of a public authority, a local authority or a public authority by way of its unlawful conduct. Indemnity liability shall be assessed in accordance with the rules of bond law. In this case, in particular, there is non-indemnity liability. In doing so, it is necessary to know that there is no exception to the State, which means that even in the case of State compensation, the basic assumptions of that responsibility must be met. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the legislation in force provides sufficient ground for the effective exercise of the constitutional right to compensation referred to in Article 26. Some claims for damages will thus be able to obtain on the basis of the Bond Code remaining under the Succession Act. Any area subject to regulatory regulation must be regulated in a comprehensive, precise and transparent manner. Unfortunately, the proposed law does not offer all the solutions that individual cases would require, so we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u173	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u174	President, thank you so much for your word. Again or what I can say next. Today we are talking about an unacceptable event, the unacceptable conduct of our courts, the so-called lost wills. Since 1991, 945 wills have been held in 44 circuit courts. Citizens have entrusted the courts with the preservation of their will with the purpose and trust that these will be declared in succession proceedings and their last will will be realized. Even more worrying is the fact that these established wills are much more. According to the 2016 article of the Lost will of Jožet Ilca, a procedure to be followed by judges was already adopted in 1955. This also shows that there have been a number of such cases by this year. Last but not least, this comes from the reply of the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, on the written question of Member of the Parliament, Dr Vinko Gorenak, who replied that before 1991, between 1945 and 1991, about 4 000 384, which means on average almost 100 wills per year. The inadmissibility afforded by the courts and prevented the last wish from being realized to as many as 5,000 329 citizens and consequently to a significant number of heirs is a duty for the State to correct. Fix it, of course, if that's even possible. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have drawn up a law to correct and limit the injustices that have occurred to these people. The fact that the damage caused by emotional damage to individuals and by interference with their human dignity will never be corrected. Therefore, the solution to this case, if I may call it, is all the more important and very important that we address it in the most responsible way and return at least the material loss they have suffered. This law speaks of exactly how to repay material loss as soon as possible. That situation, which was caused by the actions of the courts, also constitutes an illegal, unconstitutional and unlawful intervention in the right to inheritance and property before 1991. The right to private property and inheritance is also explicitly defined by Article 33 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia after 1991 as a human right, and it is clear that such conduct has an unconstitutional effect on the courts which must be corrected. The administrative intervention into the right of succession due to negligence or even, respectable, inadvertent acts of concealment before 1991 also constitutes a violation of the laws in force at that time, with no remedy for the consequences. Let me turn the situation a little differently now or in the opposite direction. You all know how quickly the state reacts when the debtors are citizens. If I am precise, second-rate citizens, because there are special rules and special laws applicable to large fish in this country. But people are for change, literally for change by electricity, unplugging their connections, taking them from their apartments, taking their properties, their apartments, throwing them on the road. Remember the action for the good 100 euros that happened to the citizen. Let us turn the matter around again a little differently, or about what we are burning today. If the country is responsible for the inadmissibility that has taken place, it is incumbent upon it to pay this back to the people immediately, otherwise we should be thrown out by citizens, just as the state throws citizens on the road if they do not meet their obligations. They have been wronged, and we are obliged to settle this as soon as possible, immediately, and this law makes it possible. And one more thing. Of course, you can look in the proposed law for hair in the egg. But that's not what this is about. This is today, and it is very important that we decide what is right and what is wrong, and that what was wrong, and that we all know that it was wrong, even in some way, and that the state does everything to enable these people at least a fraction of the satisfaction. As has already been said today, the emotional dimension and some other matters cannot be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u175	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected and respected! For this story of established or undeclared wills, we cannot find beautiful words. These are also the words spoken by the Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, on the Committee on Justice when we addressed this issue of undeclared will. Of course, it is right that we discuss this and come up with appropriate solutions together. A step has already been taken on the Committee on Justice, where, together with opposition Members, we have reached important conclusions. Decisions were adopted by the competent authorities: the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice, the Notary Chamber and the Council of Justice undertake to take appropriate measures to resolve these cases as quickly as possible. It should be said that these measures, such as the creation of criteria for possible out-of-court decisions, the preparation of an analysis of the actual situation and the development of guidelines on how to proceed in the future, are already in place. Of course, the question still arises as to how, due to the serious error of some courts, the damage to the victims, i.e. to the maimed heirs, while it is not possible to forget that on the other hand, we still have a trusted legal heir in any case. That this is a major problem is recognised in the judiciary as well as in the Ministry of Justice. The President of the Supreme Court has already pointed out this issue in 2015, which certainly shows that they did not want to put matters under carpets as they were heard in the media and by the opposition. The fact is, due to the mistake of 44 district courts under the will of the will of the parties after their death, they were not met. The Supreme Court's data show that in 140 cases, there are material consequences and what values are not yet known. It is sad that the courts, just as the guardian of the legality on which the scapegoats relied, in these cases have failed. Therefore, in our view, responsibility should be sought from the Presidents of these courts, who are ultimately responsible for the functioning of the courts. In the Desus Group, we expect the competent or responsible authorities to find a common language with the injured as soon as possible and to allow them to settle out of court, for we all understand what justification would mean for these people. In addition to the injustice that has caused them, we may think that a lot of life is focused on a different course of life, after all, we should hire lawyers, which also entails high material costs. We can't let that happen. It is the country that will have to approach the victims and do everything possible to compensate them, and make sure that this will no longer happen in the future. In the Desus Group, we strongly agree with the drafters of the law that we are considering, but we do believe in the Ministry of Justice and also the Minister, who has also considered the court's own conduct inadmissible, that procedures for reparation as well as measures to prevent any similar cases from taking place in the future. In the Desus Group, we understand the proposaler's intention, but it must be said that the existing regulatory framework already allows compensation to be applied even in cases where the will has not been declared in time and the real heir has suffered damage, while that matter does not reach a level which would necessarily require specific legal regulation, as proposed in the SDS. In the Desus Group, we will not support the bill. However, we expect the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court and the State Attorney's Office to step as far as possible towards the victims and, last but not least, to verify the existence of elements of personal responsibility of officials and officials in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u177	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Vinko Gorenak spoke first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It must now be found that it is practically an empty hall. President, I've been here before, you've come here before, I've protested before, and I don't know how many times Mr. Tanko has protested. Look, whatever the opposition proposes, you give on Friday when there is no vote. Let us be honest once with all Members because you are the President of all Members. As we see, the hall is empty; let the opposition bark and the caravan go on. Let's be correct, but once you give these laws on Tuesday. That's the first one. Second. Mr. Staret and I will go professionally and with Mrs. Porotat politically. That's right. Look, Mrs. Porotatova, I have to deal with you first, because I'm afraid you'll leave. You're saying they didn't sweep under the carpet, but they're solving things. I told my colleague before, the new Members have already explained and said that this is not true. See, if you wanted to solve the problem with Mr Masleša, then in March 2015, when this first came to light, he would have called a press conference and a universal Slovenia to tell you what had happened and how the country would solve the problem. That'd be right, and that's how you say he didn't sweep under the rug. Look, I have to say things over and over again. How did this matter come to the public? This matter came to the public by one citizen from Kopra saying, I think for Primorska news, that he is the legal heir of a farm in Bovec, which was, contrary to the will of the deceased or the deceased, allocated to someone else. This is how Slovenia learned about this problem. So, how else? And when is that? This Decision shall enter into force on the So Mr Maslesha had this under his carpet for a year and a half. Now, he's a rather difficult man, it was well-protected. So don't talk about him not sweeping under the rug. He was sweeping under the carpet and, in the ignorant, he sat up, you know, he wouldn't come out. Let's move on. What does Desus expect? Desus has fantastic expectations. Yeah, and I don't have any expectations. But we wrote the law and said, "This is how we will save." That's the problem, that's our difference. We wrote the law. You're saying you won't have to hire lawyers. Look, the citizen who sent me things says otherwise. I wanted to settle with the state, I got in touch with the State's Attorney's Office, and there they told me to sue whoever was in my house. How is he supposed to sue now? That's what they told him. Come to me and I'll give you the letters. Is this citizen who has a secondary education now suing the country? How? It's not gonna work without a lawyer. So he's gonna have to have a lawyer. They don't go together. You're telling me to get the country closer. The country approached by saying: “Says the one who is in the house.” This is where the state came in. And our marriage solves it in the right way. You agree with us, but you believe the Minister. That's great. In 2012, you didn't believe me, you trusted someone else, and you voted for my interpretation. Nice. But this is your right. And now it's hard to argue with the others. Mrs Kramareva has read something that they wrote at the Ministry of Justice and is almost impossible to politicise. But what matters is what the Secretary of State said. There's a situation like this. Don't think I haven't read all those decisions, I've read them three times. You need to know that before I open my mouth, what I read. Just believe it, that's what it is. With that judgment in 2013, the Supreme Court stated exactly how it is with outdated deadlines. And that's true in this country right now. Since what the Constitutional Court said two years later that things must be interpreted more broadly under article 26 of the Constitution, the question is how wide. That the expiration date isn't five years old, but it's six years old? Is it seven years old? It is eight, or nine, or ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, fifty. How much is it? That's not what the Constitutional Court said. But we are dealing with the wills that were written in 1946, the deceased died in 1950, and the victims have been injured for 65 years. Can you extend the decision of the Constitutional Court to 65 years? I don't think so. I will not say that the Slovenian courts will not follow this decision because I do not hope to say this because I do not know because everything is possible with us. It's possible to get arrested by an innocent man. That's right. I don't know how the courts are gonna handle it. There's a chance. Our law is a guarantee. What have we done with the law? With the law, we said that 5,000 329 injured should be treated in such a way and in such a way that today, tomorrow and immediately, your boss would say with fire and sword, come to an onion called compensation. That's what our marriage says. The case is exactly the same as deleted. It's exactly the same. There, too, the country has adopted a law by which it has said that this is how we will solve this problem. What I have to say about viewers is the most ridiculous, but this law in 2013 is written as we wrote in 2000 in the SDS or in the interior ministry at that time, the co-author is your president. He did his job correctly, and that's when we made a deal with one of the four constitutional lawyers who wrote a constitutional law that said that we would solve the matter individually. And secondly, we said that there could be a maximum of 480 thousand dollars, which corresponds to 2,000 euros in compensation. That's what we wrote in 2000. Then there's a political option, the left one, of course, because we're a stasis, but on the left there's a problem. But there's, you know, empty masks. They're one, they're the other, but they're left, that's true. Then, from 2000 to 2014, the left policy option rejected this. In 2013, however, it itself adopted a virtually the same solution. This is the solution in the form of a law we now propose. That the country should immediately start solving this problem in a number of ways. We can't, and we can't, I'm going to say plastic now, and the person who inherited the house shouldn't blame her for inheriting it. You can't blame her. You can't even blame the person who didn't inherit it, and you should inherit it. Whoever sits in this house now will have to pay compensation to one of these two countries. And it's only right that he pays for it. Of course, we anticipate all of those possible solutions: from settlement, agreement and so on and so forth. You're saying there's no legal obstacle to how things work out. I would very much like to see that we are in the same jobs if not for two years – but we will not, at least I will not be here – when the first court decision comes out that the matter is obsolete. Then what are you gonna say? I personally expect such decisions from the courts. Given the matter that I know something about, and if I became a judge, I would also make a decision that the matter is obsolete. I think you'd be acting in accordance with the law that is currently in force. However, if our law were adopted, which is not, of course, because of the wrong signatories, because otherwise I would have wondered what would have happened if I had succeeded, but I could not, such a law as the working text, send to one of your officials, and say that this came from Cerara's office, and that he should look. [[…]] What would you do? I'd write a great opinion. However, because it says here at the bottom of Jože Tanko and 19 Members of Parliament, it is not okay. You know, that's a tricky story. We don't know, professionally speaking, we have no idea what it's gonna be like. However, my claim is, we can check it later when the court's rulings fall so that the existing legal system does not save the system of all the victims. Above all, not those who should inherit, but who did not inherit after World War II, but until 2010. But all that is after 2010 is already an issue of obsolescence. The problem is therefore, in my opinion, a solution for people who have been injured since 2010, not for people who were injured before 2010. That's most of it. If we take 100 a year, it means we have a solution for 500 people, but we don't have a solution for 4 thousand 829 people. Our law, according to my assessment, brings solutions for these people in a very corrective way, but in any case the state will pay. The state will always pay compensation and no one else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u179	I will continue to give the word, but I will respond procedurally to the part that was procedural if I can. I'm sure you all know the difference between first reading and other treatments. The first examinations are simply whether or not the law goes forward. Eight first hearings were tabled at this meeting by the opposition, which I also pointed out. Since this is a certain time, the total was 70 hours that had to be arranged and we are also working on that day that is usually not working, it is Monday. While I must give priority to others and to third parties to where they are expected and where the law is definitively adopted, I am so aware of this matter procedurally and at the same time also of the vote for the MVK points and so on. These always have an advantage, so there's almost no theory that the first hearing could take place on Tuesday. That's almost out of the question. A second option would be to have a constant vote, and most likely all Members would not agree with you that this is something they want very much, both opposition and positional. I hold that, at the time announced, we optimise the matter both in terms of the time we have to say what we have to say, both the services of the National Assembly and the Members themselves. This time, I specifically warned the applicants of the first hearing, given that this meeting is particularly burdensome if they can withdraw any of the cases themselves. I did not want to intervene on this matter alone, but all the conditions for dealing with these points have been met. Since no one has done so, I have allowed what could be in conflict with what the previous presidents of the National Assembly have done at such times. However, you know that each Group of Members is entitled to one point which can be automatically placed on the agenda. Now let's get on with it. Procedurally, Mr. Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would ask if you could warn Dr. Vinko Gorenak, I believe he reads the materials he's got, but he can also read before he answers. This would be good to warn him, for even when he speaks of an empty hall, that there are no Members of Parliament, that is, even Members of the SDS as initiators here I do not see. But if I can see it, then I can only see two, and that is, if I only compare it to Desus, that's at least half less than Desusa. So I'd like to ask you to warn him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u181	You have already warned him, Mr Vice President, so he does not need to do this again. But it's verified, that's the fact that there really are very few of us in the hall. But no matter what, we'll keep going. Now he's got the word "magic." Dušan Verbič, let Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert and Dr. Mitja Horvat prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Maybe I'll abuse you a little, considering there aren't so many of us here. However, this topic is certainly also linked, and in the previous point it has touched the previous points in some way. I'm gonna start myself, I'm gonna come back a little bit, but it's kind of a thing. In the preceding paragraph, we discussed responsibility for the status of the central registry of wills. Here I must admit that I did not previously succeed mainly in the fact that this central register of will, which should have been established since 2007, should not be too much of a burden for the Ministry of Justice to determine, this is a good seven, eight, nine years, responsibility of those, and here we have previously touched primarily the judicial authorities, it is said notaries and lawyers and parts of the courts that have simply failed to perform those tasks which are very clearly recorded by law. In this case, we haven't talked for so many years. But 2007 is close. Nothing can help us further or any other legal standard if we write it beautifully, and we are all happy to have an excellent marriage if those who are examples of the rule of law do not adhere to it. That's why I'm here expecting you not to come before us in some context, so that some things can't be settled. It's very clear here. That's it. In this context, I would also mention the similar thinking already expressed by the honourable Member. As a result, I am quite inclined to consider such will-related matters as a result of this item of the agenda, that in a number of cases this has been done with intent or negligence. But I'm not getting into whether it's serious or light negligence. But I'm increasingly sure that's what happened. The numbers in front of us now show that this is not a coincidence. Clearly, the one who works is wrong. And it would be understandable if there were a few ten cases. It happens. However, if this is a matter of hundreds of matters, I am very much in favour of the view that this was the reason. As far as this law is concerned, I must admit that it is my humble view that this proposal for a law before us, regardless of the views that have been expressed, is worth reconsidering. Why? This content, which is actually before us, we really agree, and I think that everyone we are discussing is aware that it is defined that irreparable damage is occurring here. Everything about wills until you're in the first person, you just don't realize it. I think that Members simply need to be aware of this. What does that mean? That someone who was aware that it is practically the one who takes over property after the will act and then miraculously happens to be completely different, that this is where it is likely to be further considered. As far as marriage is concerned, if I move away from what I said, maybe I can touch the content a little bit, but I have a little bit of a problem that's worth considering. First of all, there is no dilemma, what has been found unacceptable. That's absolute. However, the fundamental question to me is whether these proposals, which are written as an alternative form of solution, are sufficiently weighed so that new injustices may not be caused by such activities or solutions. I think there is such a question in place, because what respectable Dr. Vinko Gorenak mentioned, settlement, and then they will decide whether or not the property is real estate, is that the wills are not just objects we know as real estate, but also money, are other movables and so on. [[…]] It's not that simple. Next thing. Who says that all the wills were such that they could not be challenged at that time? No one says that every will is such that it's true. And the final question. What is in the status of individuals with an urgent legal share for which the beneficiaries were also in the order of succession in those proceedings? For this reason, I do not think that this is so uniform and it is right that, in some respects, there is still a little change to be made in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u183	The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In a way, I can thank you for this debate, even for that position, see, Article 3 is not, how can I say, breathing. Yes, that's possible. But the problem we have is that on Monday, I'm not going to be, you're going to vote on this law, and you're going to throw it away. Tuesday, good. The problem is, you'll throw it at the Ministry's request. I don't expect anything more from this team at the Ministry. But if it were the will and the mind and the reason, we would say that the law is suitable for second reading, we would write some amendments to the government, let the law go forward and do something useful for the citizens. You know, the way we compare things now is if you got some sick cat out there that you can cure or kill, you shoot. And now you've decided to kill her. However, if you feel that the law in Article 3 or elsewhere is not done best for people, you can fix it. But you're going to throw it at the vote on Tuesday. And that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u185	Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Winko Gorenak. You asked a question, hypothetically, how will it be in two years when we discuss the interpretation of this decision of the Constitutional Court, as stated in the Government's opinion? And I'm going to take one hypothesis. I remember, a year and a half ago, and even less ago, when we discussed the two proposals of the new Penal Code for terrorist offences, when you reasoned on this need to have hundreds of thousands of migrants in the Republic of Slovenia and so on in a month, two months. Fortunately, your prognosis did not come true, and it appears to have been poor. I deeply believe that this assumption of yours is bad or wrong, because I believe that both within the Ministry of Justice and the courts and the judiciary, we will be able to achieve a truly just state in such a way that those who are justified and affected by this unacceptable behaviour that has occurred over time will receive adequate satisfaction or compensation without having new burdens, unnecessary costs and so on. That's one aspect. Another aspect. The Constitutional Court and this provision in Article 26 of our Constitution are not intended for themselves. Its purpose is that in fact it can be achieved, and that one who is entitled to compensation for the unlawful conduct of the State or its authorities may in fact obtain compensation or, if there is a dispute, actually have access to a court which can then determine that he is entitled to such damage. In this context, this decision of the Constitutional Court must be justified. The limitation period shall begin to run from the moment that this individual beneficiary has been informed by the affected person. In this particular case, these cases concern a situation where, or individuals already affected by the wills or persons who may be entitled to compensation from this title will receive a notice from the courts. There's a lot of them already. And from then on, the arms begin to flow. It doesn't matter how old these people are. I do not think there is any question as to the interpretation of this decision of the Constitutional Court. You can read point 17 and I think it is fair, fair and normal and is also justified by decisions of the European Court of Justice. However, with regard to the responsibilities of the Presidents of the courts in which this has taken place, I would like to say something in other words, with particular emphasis, see, every person who has happened to him to say, guilt or potential harm due to the suspension of the duty of the public authorities is an example of himself, and it is irrelevant whether there are another 50 or a thousand. But we have determined so far, Supreme Court, that such cases have been 945 since independence, that is, since 1991. In 1995, 44 district courts were established in Slovenia with the Law on Courts. This means, in other words, statistically, but only because of the awareness of this data, this does not mean that I am debasing or reducing the importance of any, all-inclusive individual who has been potentially affected by this abandoned duty, so this means at annual level one based will on one District Court. It's actually a condition. Each one is inadmissible, but that means one established will on one District Court in one year. As a result, it is also such an important information on which courts have hosted such established wills more. For this reason, there will be an indication of the greater possible responsibility of those, either presidents or responsible persons, for the performance and provision of quality timely and legitimate work. And in the context of this data acquisition, not only is it not only to remedy the situation, but it also finds responsibility, but also in the context of the recommendations adopted by this esteemed State Assembly in the Justice Committee. Once this information is obtained, we will have one real basis on the actual situation, which can be the appropriate basis for further decisions, including responsibility. We are talking about 945 cases, which statistically means one founding will on one District Court in the Republic of Slovenia per year. And I believe that I am also saying this because of the vast majority of judges and the Presidents of the Courts, who have no doubt that they are doing their job carefully and conscientiously, that situations are not all the same everywhere, and that is right, correct to them, that is our responsibility, that we also act by building trust in the institution of this common state community, that we wait to get to this data and then we will be able to make it easier, lastly, also more critical, and in fact, to decide each one within their competences, which measures can also be carried out in terms of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u187	The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, that's what we're going to say. What I wanted with the Criminal Procedure Act would be very useful, but otherwise not 100,000 people have come to this country, but half a million people. Half a million people went through this country. It doesn't even hold everything else you said. There's still a chance that 100,000 of them being stuck in their pockets. There's nothing we can say on this subject because we don't know it. That's another thing. What would be wrong if I had that criminal code provision? We'd have some kind of mechanism against people who didn't have fair intentions. That's not how we have this mechanism. Yeah, you say we have it. I don't know what they frogs do there in Italy. Why didn't we send the Frog before the judge, but the Italians did? Yeah, that's right. Otherwise, look, the interior minister is proposing something far worse right now. Something much worse than it was written in there. At the moment, the Interior Minister drafted a law saying: "If the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia estimates by a two-thirds majority that such conditions have arisen in the country of Slovenia from the point of view of migrants, that the situation is uncontrollable, closes the borders." Close the borders for everyone. Contrary to EU law. And I support her because she cares about the safety of people in this country. But what's the problem? The problem is in the President of the Government, because he put it in the drawer based on your boss's opinion, maybe even your opinion, I don't know. See, that's the problem. Now it's hard for you to tell me that in the Penal Code you would have a provision that you might never have used, but you would have it, which would not be wrong, and at the same time you're against, at least your boss is acting, so the Minister is taking a stand against the position of the Minister of the same government, who has apparently drawn up a law that is in favour of these citizens. I have that rule, I think it's also the last version, but look, that's the state of this government. Who can guarantee that over a thousand people will be able to make money? I think you all know that we have capacity for a thousand people and that the interior minister is right about what she did. I don't want to go over these matters about the Penal Code or the CAP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u189	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor and then a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer for the conclusion of the general debate should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u190	Obviously, we should not count as the Vice-President did, but somehow make percentages of how many they sit, but, above all, how many they speak. This is where we'd run into a really low percentage. But the obvious damage to citizens and citizens, as far as an unacceptable will is concerned, is not important to many. But allow me to reply to the Secretary of State, who said how they dealt with the establishment of commissions in court. You have previously stated in the conclusion of the previous point that a special commission has been set up with a view to systemic solutions in the courts. You know, this special commission, I'm going to read to you here, had to get data from every district court in the country where it was supposed to be a systemic problem. As a result, a Commission was established within the framework of the Supreme Court, which issued guidelines for handling such cases. This Commission was not set up for what we said earlier to look at things systematically in terms of what does not work in the system, but was for specific matters or how things should be regulated in the case of these wills. I can tell you further because you're nodding. Guidelines have been issued for the conduct of cases where the will has not been declared and the legacy procedure has been carried out. The Commissions were also set up in individual courts to look into matters. Well, now I'm going to get to that point that we're dealing with right now. And what are these commissions supposed to do? In cases of finding such a situation, the Court informed the parties in writing of the error, apologized to the parties, informed them of the situation and of their legal possibility. This has been given to citizens and citizens whose country is on the other hand by its inadmissibility, while negligence has caused some more irreparable damage. That's what the citizens got. If I get one of those letters and I'm not a court judge, I haven't even stood in court, thank God, it's a question of how fast a man turns. Two years is what has already been issued, and you say that now, slowly, all the parties in these procedures should have received these notifications. Two years. I hope it's not too late for a lot of people in these two years to even experience it. I claim that with existing legislation, and you claim otherwise, there will be no obsolescence. This is not based on a decision of the Constitutional Court. This suggests that in some way, if I say domestically, we should not hold as a fence drunkard, they sometimes say, and strictly look at certain obsolete hands when it comes to damage, but the question of how long it is. And don't tell me that when things open up, they'll be easy to solve. Before it was well said, I agree with that, we mentioned one house today if someone leaves it, but they can leave a lot of other things and these things are not so easy to solve. I'll only tell you one case. I know a lady who bought a house with her own resources. Then she married and wanted to allow her partner to stay in this house and show him that the matter will work in a way also in the sense that it is not all that way and we will continue to create it together and it is somehow ours in this sense. And she allowed the service to be entered into the land book. Enrollment of service. Then it happened that there was a notary record where she said that the service applied to the sale of the property or its death. Of course, the journey happened as it did, there was a divorce, and this gentleman now refused to leave the house, even though the house wanted to be sold. The case went to court, the service is being challenged. And two years, Your Honor, two years for the service alone is not the first task. The lady pays her loans, she lost her property because she moved out because she was afraid to live in her own property, and the gentleman lives in this property. Now imagine that in the end it would be clear that this house or some other house has other heirs and so on. I said only one such banal case, but who is still burdening this person and this family, because the mother is a single mother, and when she repeatedly asks the court when the trial will come, the answer is, "We don't know." Only duty, respectable, one notary record. The property is clear. Two years or the first contract, and you're saying that for five thousand and a few more people, everything will be as it should be, at wills, when it comes to much, much harder cases. It's a much harder case. And this law, which we propose, speaks only of limiting the possibility of obsolescence and returning to those, because it will be absolutely long. Look, 20 years ago, for example, there was an injustice, someone got a real estate they shouldn't have. In those 20 years, he thought he had invested in it. He could have written it down in part to his family. You know how many procedures this is when it turns out that the owner is completely someone else. And you can't expect individuals to solve these procedures themselves and start knocking on doors and saying, "Are you going out of this house?" First of all, it will be necessary to see how much the so-called new owner, who was not the owner, has invested. After that, is he the only one who owns it, because he can also continue to write down the property, because everyone can work with their property and their property what they want in this country. Last but not least, you can donate it for charity and it's gone. There's so many things to be drawn to here, but now I've only exhibited real estate and this complication because I wanted to show how long our justice mills are grinding. Unacceptable for a long time. And there will be a very wide range of problems that will only be identified in the course of the process. I think this law only helps us to come to a solution as soon as possible. I also agree with Ambassador Verbic, very good debate, not because he supports the law, but also when he advocates his own and what kind of thing he does not support, I will always say that the debate is good. We just have different views. But that things might need to be looked at, looked at, maybe changed, added something else. To look at another thing that we may not have overlooked as proposing right now, but we don't even know it. We don't know her. But the fact is, we've dealt with things systematically with the law. Mr Maslesha, and now his deputy, were notified to the people, "Reprove yourselves." Leave what is now. This is based on the fact that the matter has reverberated in public and cannot be brought back. When the ghost escapes from the bottle, you can't get him back. The fact is that the interest of the courts was not to correct injustice in a manner that would be appropriate for what the state or courts had done. As a result, we are obliged here to take care of this. If we are indeed deleted, which I still claim to have had quite a bit of time to settle matters, but we have demanded individual solutions precisely because of the fact that injustice does not occur and that this is how it is returned to them today, let us not wait for the European Court. We allow our own citizens to be resolved sooner. Emotional dimensions, even though some people are criticizing me, you know, some feelings, and here I am always in the middle of money. You know, it's not true. The emotional dimension also means that someone feels that they have given up something that someone has neglected him, that someone may have forgotten him. He's not here. And he could have lived in that faith for 40 years. And in the end, it turns out it wasn't like that. And God forbid, most of them are alive, so that at least in this part they'll experience this satisfaction, that it wasn't what they always thought it was. But on the other hand, let us not do new wrongs to those who think it is theirs, even so they live. Therefore, it will take great care not to commit new wrongs. That is why we believe that this law is good because it allows for a time frame in terms of non-deprecating and specifically determines how the matter would be dealt with. Once again, I hope that the rejection of the marriage will not only be because your minister cannot hear about the SDS, but this time let the sword really point to at least this solution. If he hasn't done any of the other things in the coalition contract, let him at least solve the matter. Let us restore dignity to these people. It is difficult for me here as a representative of the legislative branch of power to say that there is nothing we can do if we see that we have a law that can help. And that's just because we're going games in this sense: something proposed by the opposition and because it's the opposition we're running, we're not going to do. But we're people, let's go over ourselves once and for all, let's try to get into these people and what kind of injustice has happened to them. And today we know he did. Let us be glad that this has at least occurred. But we're looking for a common effort to solve this. This is certainly the first effort to propose a law that may not be ideal at this time, to let it go forward, to upgrade it if necessary, to see what further needs to be added on the basis of the debate and to show these citizens that the Constitution still means something in this country. You know, these excuses the courts have written are ridiculous to me. I was already listening in the National Assembly when someone was deprived of their mandate, if they were wrong to receive at least an apology. Do you know what happened? When this person came out of prison and walked down this hallway, some looked down. They were not able to say a good day, except that someone might be able to say, "It was unjust." Let us then imagine whether we are doing the right thing or not. Sometimes just an apology is enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u191	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The government's representative has already made his point. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u192	Yeah, and I haven't said my thing yet. And I won't spend all my time. What my colleague Bahova just said, I saw the president say you were listening. So I'm going to say, "You still have time. You still have time to apologize on behalf of all those who pressed the button."
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u193	I said you did, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u194	Yeah, I didn't press the withdrawal button. Yeah, that's right. Okay, let's drop it. As far as this marriage is concerned, here's the deal. I'm gonna start off a little weird. I was in this house, and before I was in this house, in another one on Stefan 2, for about 16 years, I heard that we had 25 thousand 671 erased and that we had to repair the damage. Was it like that? Then Kresalov raised it to 33,000. Now that the law has been in force for two years, there are 7 thousand 500. So much for the political statements of such and different ones. As for the law, to put it simply, I see that everyone is in a hurry, but I will tell people, and all of the 5,000 329 people who have been harmed in this country because of the wills that were lost in the courts and did not inherit some property, should inherit it and be inherited by someone else. I personally, as well as those lawyers, so you won't think, I've contacted some of the former constitutional judges on the issue of obsolescence, because I said, I'm not gonna run into anyone laughing at me. And the ones I spoke to, and they also belong in the extreme left half, were in the position that after five years things were obsolete. And that means that for about 500 people, it's still possible to sort things out, but for 4,000, 800 people, it's not. And since it is impossible for 4,000 800 people to make a case, we have written a law similar to that of deleted, special law that provides procedures and ways to correct this injustice. You have argued that everything is possible within the framework of a legal order that exists. I would like you to be even right, but there on the second anniversary you will get the question of how many cases have already been solved after two years. I believe what happens. I hope so. But the answer to the question is what it will be: nothing is yet saved. That'll be your answer, because it almost has to be. Because I don't believe anything could be resolved by then. That is why we have written this law because we want to help these people to get decent compensation as soon as possible. The marriage will reject the coalition on Tuesday. But all those who are injured, you'll have to thank the coalition, not the ones we've been trying to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-16-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u195	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 20, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 12. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. I hereby terminate this agenda item as well as the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday at 9 a.m. See you then.
