ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Vesna Vervega by 1 p.m., Mr Jan Mahnic, mag. Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Simon Zajc. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on scholarships after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Although the Act on Grants in force was adopted by consensus of key stakeholders, some difficulties have been demonstrated in practice, particularly in the case of deficit scholarships. The implementation of the invitation to tender for the award of scholarships for school deficits 2015/2016 has been complicated by the open deadline for the submission of applications. The current law provides for the collection of applications through a public call and does not provide for specific conditions to be met by investors in order to obtain a deficit grant. We would like to avoid similar problems in the future and therefore the change before the publication of the invitation to tender for the school year 2016/2017, which is due to be published in the short term, is necessary. The change will result in a more efficient and transparent allocation of funds for scholarships for deficient professions, on the basis of which investors will be treated equally in terms of meeting the conditions and irrespective of the time when the application is submitted. Funding for scholarships for deficient professions will be provided from European funds in the school year 2016/2017. Therefore, with the proposed amendments to the law, we want to change the way scholarships are granted for deficient professions, as the current law of the grant grants on the basis of a public call. This in the past meant that the decision to grant the grant was a decisive time for the submission of the application, which caused a lot of problems, bad will, a long line before the fund and at the post office and in the end there was a lot of disappointment. Therefore, we propose an amendment to Article 31 of the Act on Scholarship to which we have added special conditions. Thus, the amended Article reads: "Assistances for deficient professions shall be granted to beneficiaries who fulfil the conditions laid down in Articles 11, 12 and 13 of this Law and the specific conditions laid down in the invitation to tender and shall be educated at the levels of education and in the areas defined in the grant policy." This provision has been further supplemented by Article 31, where the specific conditions laid down by the invitation to tender have been defined. The specific conditions of the tender to be met by the applicant may thus be the level or level of education, the area or direction of education, the education year, the success year or the average assessment. In addition, we propose an amendment to Article 33 of the Law, where the second paragraph is deleted, which means that the open deadline for lodging an application is deleted as a criterion for granting a deficit grant. The second amendment to the law relates to the amendment of the employment conditions for Ad futura scholarships, which are scholarships for education abroad, resulting from the European Commission’s procedure against the Republic of Slovenia, in which the European Commission, following the adoption of the Grant Act in July 2013, requested amendments to the provisions relating to the period within which the Ad futura grantee must fulfil the employment obligation. Therefore, under Article 58 of the Act on the grant of scholarships, the Republic of Slovenia has promised the European Commission, on the first amendment of the legislation, to set longer deadlines for fulfilling the employment obligations of those fellows who received the Ad futura grant for study abroad. Dear Members and Members! I ask you to support, in the light of the explanation I have presented, the amendment of the Law on the grant and thus to ensure its better, easier and more equitable implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 25th emergency meeting on 12. 1. as a parent working body treated the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Grants. This was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for a hearing and adoption following a reduced procedure, as the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the regulation should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, followed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, the Diaic Organization of Slovenia and representatives of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarships, were present or participated in the work of the committee. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and its home committee also examined the law and, of course, supported the proposed law. In the debate itself, the proposaler said that the proposed amendment was to regulate the open deadline for the award of scholarships for deficient professions and the transition to a closed tender. In this way, investors will have, as has been said, sufficient time to submit applications and will be assessed on the basis of compliance with the conditions and criteria which will ensure equal treatment of all investors, irrespective of the time when applications are submitted, as has been the case recently. In addition to the general conditions laid down by the law, additional conditions to be laid down under the law will also be allowed for the granting of a scholarship for deficient professions. It is reasonable that these fellows who receive these scholarships return to us after their completion of their education, i.e. in the Republic of Slovenia, so the proposed amendment to the law also provides a more appropriate timetable for meeting the obligation of Ad Future scholarships after the deadline or after the completion of their education. Furthermore, in a debate that was correct, open and constructive, the discussers supported the proposed amendments to the law. The current arrangements were certainly inadequate, which was particularly reflected or reflected in last year's events regarding scholarships. It was pointed out that the changes were aligned with both the student and the student organisations and the social partners. The Law itself had, within its competence, comments by the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 4 of the Regulation itself, in which the coalition SMC, Desus and SD groups tabled an amendment that took due account of all the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment to Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133. The amended bill is an integral part of the report, which you have also received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u6	Honourable President, Ministry Representative, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scholarships contains two basic solutions. The first solution stems from the need to comply with European Union law and relates to the alignment of the employment obligations of Ad futura fellows with the requirements of the European Commission. The current regulation provides that the grantor shall be obliged not later than three months after the completion of the education for which he has received the scholarship to enter into the employment relationship or to register with the Employment Service. The amendment proposes amending the legislation in force in order to determine the duration of the scholarship and the level of education. The paper suggests, for example, that a postgraduate study should take place 10 years after the completion of the study if the granter received a scholarship up to and including three study years and that for postgraduate studies the proposed period should be 5 years from the completion of the study if the granter received a maximum of one study year and so on. The second solution presented by the novel is due to the high interest in scholarships for deficient professions in the school year 2015/2016, which has shown that the current regime of the open-ended tender area is inadequate. Instead of an open deadline for applying for deficit scholarships, the novelty also introduces specific conditions or criteria on the basis of which investors will be assessed, such as the level or level of education, the area or direction of education, the education year and success, or the average assessment. The grant policy adopted by the Government for the period 2015 to 2019 already sets out the objectives of scholarships for the deficit professions, identifies areas promoted through the policy of scholarships for the deficit professions, including areas defined as deficits by the Italian and Hungarian national communities, indicators of monitoring achievement of the objectives, expected results of scholarships for the deficit professions and the manner and period of reporting on the implementation of the grant. With a novelty, we will allow, in cooperation with the profession or employers within the already mentioned deficit areas and educational programmes, a narrower range of professions will be established in line with the call for deficit scholarships. The arrangements we are introducing are more transparent and efficient and allow for equal treatment of investors. It should be pointed out, however, that the scholarships for the deficit professions themselves will not be able to provide all the answers to the current situation in the labour market and address the problem of young people moving abroad and the related loss of potential that could drive social progress and the opportunity to create new jobs in Slovenia. We also need to be effective in finding additional solutions or answers to questions concerning the deepening of structural disparities in the labour market in jobs with secondary vocational education, as we may not be able to replace the workforce with certain competences, which is already leaving the labour market today, by the influx of young people. As a result, this will have a negative impact on the Slovenian economy. On the basis of the proposal presented in the SMC Group, we will support the amendment of the Act on Scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! I myself remember in 2007 when we adopted the first system law on scholarships in the first government of Janez Janša, and I know that one of the carriers in addition to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was then also the Minister of Education. On his initiative, the law also gave special notice to scholarships for deficient professions; and even more, even some other education laws followed that purpose. However, the fact is that we have been quite unanimous throughout the whole period since 2007 in adopting legislation on scholarships, because the promise of the then Minister of Labour was that if problems arise in practice, we will resolve matters on the contrary. And today we have one of the apprehensions of this anomaly. However, the fact is that the invitation to tender for the grant of scholarships for deficit professions, which must be in accordance with the Act on Grants, was adopted in 2013 and it is explicitly stated that the tender must be published by the end of January. If we all know we're here on January 26th, we're in a great hurry again. We find two issues problematic in the SDS Group. One is that each time the conditions will be laid down in the invitation to tender. In the SDS Group, we do not want these conditions to vary from year to year so that young people can better come before scholarships with precise facts to be fulfilled. Another problematic fact seems to us that the law was passed in 2013 and the first tender for the deficit professions was only at the end of 2015. So what should have been already in January 2013 and January 2015 was missed. But when we first met this invitation to tender, we saw one of the main problems, and this is a problem that is called the system, which comes sooner than not. That is why, today, in the SDS Group, we also support the solution to abolish the deadline and therefore to move to a closed public tender. In doing so, we would like to highlight two more points. One is the financial construction of scholarships for deficient professions. We believe that the Ministry will find so much funding that everyone wishing to receive these scholarships will also be able to receive these grants. As I recall, in the SDS Group, we found, on the basis of some rapid analyses, that more of these funds should be needed, so we also proposed an amendment for 2016 and for 2017, each time an 8-million raise. In your first attempt, you have rejected these amendments from the coalition, but we hope that the ministry will only find money in the following budgets, so that the opposition or the SDS Group in particular will not have to propose additional amendments. The second point that we want to draw attention to is that it does not directly touch this law, but it is directly linked, but it is that we expect the Ministry of Labour and also the Ministry of Education to approach the systematic resolution of the apprenticeship problem without delay, where it is also a matter of deficient professions. It is unacceptable to evaluate and draft the apprenticeship system by 2020. In 2020, changes will probably require a new, more modern solution, so we expect the Ministry of Labour to make its own piece in the mosaic of successful preparation for the resolution of apprenticeship issues. In short, given that it is a matter of amending the law that is urgently needed to avoid the system that comes before it takes, we will also unanimously support the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All of you, welcome! This proposal of the novel of the law on scholarship regulates two; the first thing is scholarships for deficient professions. This is a change in the terms of the invitation to tender and is due to last year's complications in the publication of the tender for scholarships for deficient professions for the current school year. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposed amended tender procedure from an open-ended deadline. We also support the introduction of additional conditions that can be taken into account for the evaluation of investor applications with points which will ultimately be the criterion for the selection of beneficiaries of these types of scholarships. The candidates will thus be assessed on the basis of the fulfilment of the conditions and criteria set out in the invitation to tender, taking into account the direction, level and year of education and the school success or evaluation of the candidate. This certainly aims at a more efficient and targeted policy of scholarship. However, in order for the purpose of this type of scholarship to be realized, it is necessary to adapt the set of deficit professions to the real or present needs or economic needs. In addition to scholarships for deficient professions, the interests of the economy are closely linked to the human resources scholarships that employers have the opportunity to grant to students and students who see their future staff. In view of the warnings and initiatives on their part or by regional development agencies, it would be possible to listen to them as soon as possible. However, another change related to Ad futura recipients, who are intended to educate young people abroad, takes into account our assessment of more vitality as to when a postgraduate is expected to fulfil his obligation to work at home, i.e. in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal for a new law and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, all present, welcome! The new law on scholarships contains two amendments in the area of Ad futura scholarships and scholarships for deficient professions. Ad futura scholarships are intended to promote the education of young people abroad. Education abroad, for a short time, or for the entire programme, among our students is strongly present, highly desirable and of course of exceptional importance in terms of greater competitiveness of graduates and improving employment opportunities. It makes sense for these scholarships to return and work in the Republic of Slovenia after completion of their education. In the procedure before the European Commission, we have committed ourselves to harmonising national legislation with the requirements for limiting the free mobility of Ad futura fellows who receive a scholarship for education abroad. The proposed amendment of the law follows these commitments and provides a more appropriate timetable for meeting the obligations of Ad futura scholarships for education in the Republic of Slovenia after completion of education. The second amendment to the Act on Scholarship refers to scholarships for deficient professions. Identifying and responding to labour market needs is crucial in ensuring that unemployment and job opportunities are reduced. In determining deficit occupations, the gap between supply and demand in the labour market is an important factor. The increasing enrolment of young people in tertiary education, despite the high number of unemployed, causes structural unemployment, as employers cannot meet their labour needs, especially after workers with vocational and secondary vocational and technical education. As a result, the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 provides for measures to ensure the provision of deficit labour, the development of labour market services to address structural imbalances in the labour market, as well as scholarships for deficient and specialised professions. The issue of deficient professions is also covered more broadly by the Youth Guarantee. The poor situation of young people in the labour market is due, among other things, to the uncoordinated structure of tertiary education graduates in terms of education with respect to labour market needs, to a significant increase in the number of graduates and to a reduction in the number of young people with final vocational and secondary vocational education that is included in the labour market. Pensions for deficient professions are so crucial to strike a balance between supply and demand in the labour market and are important incentives for young people to choose education for professions that show a shortage of available staff in the labour market according to their intended needs. Including 2019, the Republic of Slovenia will provide €1.2 million per year for scholarships for deficient professions. In the next school year, this amount will be provided from European funds. The scholarship shall amount to EUR 100 per month and may be awarded at the same time as all scholarships, except for staff. We are all still very well reminded of the not-so-happy implementation of the first invitation to tender, caused by the provision of an open deadline for filing an unfair application for the first person to come. This bitter experience requires us to change the way in which the tender is to be awarded and to determine the criteria that will help decide on the eligibility of the award. The change thus means a more efficient and transparent distribution of grants for deficit professions, in particular a fairer and more equitable distribution. The specific conditions laid down in Article 31(3) shall not be binding but may be applied in the event of an excessive number of applications. On the basis of these criteria, investors will be treated equally in future tenders in respect of compliance with the conditions and irrespective of the time of submission of the application. The Social Democrats will, of course, support the amendment of the Law on Scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u14	President, thank you so much for your word. The system of deficit scholarships has some serious shortcomings, so in the United Left we will support this proposal, which is ahead of us, conditionally on the assurances made by the Secretary of State to take social criteria into account in the allocation. The basic problem of this law is the definition of deficient professions. Its first criterion is a shortage in the labour market. We agree here with the Ministry's approach. There is no second criterion, namely the answer to the question which sectors we will develop as a priority in Slovenia, which depends on the development strategy that we do not have in Slovenia. We have a strategy for underdevelopment, privatisation, which is called a capital investment management strategy, but which does not define human resources needs. We all probably agree that it does not make sense to grant scholarships to people who will be forced to move to Germany and Austria, so we really think that in Slovenia this moment, as a deficit, we would need more state social scholarships, because it is clear that the population with social assistance, which is 300 euros below the poverty risk threshold or 100 euros below the minimum cost of living, cannot provide normal conditions for the education of their children. Employers, after all, have the opportunity to attract staff with higher salaries or staff scholarships. Therefore, it would be more than in some professions for which we cannot really guarantee employment, to invest these funds in increasing state scholarships. This, however, gives us the assurance of the Secretary of State. In the United Left, we proposed an amendment that, in cases where the two candidates have the same grades, the scholarship would be given to the student who is in a difficult social situation or who has special needs or who is very far from the place of education. This amendment was rejected as unnecessary by the Committee. I hope that it will not be necessary for the Secretary of State, Dr. Pogacar, to be able to quote for the record here: "Yes, we will certainly take these comments into account, both in accordance with the Ministry, in the preparation of the invitation to tender, in the event that both of them meet the conditions, these criteria will be respected." End of quote. In the United Left, we believe that Members who support a law are also morally responsible for its implementation and, of course, we will monitor the fulfillment of this promise. In particular, those who directly enforce the laws are responsible. We cannot help but accept this change today because those responsible for the Ministry of Labour have proposed the so-called open call. An open invitation to tender is a kind of lottery where, instead of the ability or social criteria, chance decides. The additional problem is that open calls happen what happened last year when the website collapsed due to a large number of applications. I don't know if it makes any sense to talk about this coalition that tolerates ministers, who – if I quote Mr President of the Government – are "rich at the expense of the citizens" and who abuse the functions of the public university and the public agency to gain wealth for themselves and for connected persons. However, it is certainly important to note that the Ministry of Labour has serious difficulties in introducing new information solutions and in identifying responsibility for errors. The case of deficit scholarships is not an isolated case. In 2012, strong social legislation was introduced, which provides for the search for data on recipients at 30 different bases. As a result, 11 000 outstanding applications from 2012 were still outstanding in March 2014. The responsible person has, however, been dismissed but not officially for this reason and is still attending the meetings of the committees on behalf of the Ministry of Labour. I hope and expect that such mistakes will not occur in the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Croatian Democrats, for which Mrs Iva Dimic has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u16	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we welcome that in Slovenia, however, there has been a more systematic start to scholarship deficit professions. This was facilitated by the last amendment to the 2013 Act on Scholarships. Finally, it is being monitored for which professions are less interested in young people and where they are now, or in the future, greater needs for staff than currently provided. Young people and their parents, since these are 14-year-olds, should be encouraged to make decisions for the deficit professions at different levels; an additional scholarship of EUR 100 is only one of the incentive measures. The deficit scholarship can be awarded at the same time as other scholarships, except with a staff grant, which we believe is good. In doing so, we encourage the Ministry's representatives to increase the financial resources allocated to deficits and other scholarships as this will enable young people to receive appropriate education for jobs, where they can later find employment. Unfortunately, the adoption of the law did not provide for any effect in practice on the decision to publish a public invitation to tender with an open deadline for the submission of an application, i.e. until the use of the funds. The way in which he came earlier was not entirely appropriate for such an invitation to tender with such great interest. In the novel we are dealing with, this is corrected. The law provides that a public tender for the award of deficit grants shall be published as a tender with a closed application period where grants are awarded to the beneficiary on the basis of the selection criteria. The Novela also introduces a change or abolition of the obligation of Ad futura recipients to work with the employer based in the Republic of Slovenia within three months of the completion of the education for which they received the scholarship. This amendment is requested by the European Commission for the free movement of persons. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a novel of the Law on Scholarships, which is a response to the media's very resounding complications with regard to scholarships for deficient professions. We also agree in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that there can be no decisive criteria for the award of scholarships for candidates, so we support the Government's efforts to arrange the transition to a closed invitation to tender. As the Government points out, schoolchildren or investors will have enough time to submit their applications and scholarships will not be awarded according to the principle that they come sooner rather than later, but on the basis of meeting the conditions and criteria, which will ensure equal treatment of all investors. While we support these efforts, the novel raises some new questions. For example, what criteria should be laid down to choose the right candidates for scholarships for the deficit professions? Among them, at least the Government is proposing school or academic success. I can say from my own experience that students who were later extremely successful in the professions that we consider to be deficient have not always been successful in general subjects. In particular, the mathematics that I taught them has often been done to them, even though they were gifted for a profession for which there was little interest. We therefore wonder whether learning success is the criterion by which we could assess eligibility for a scholarship. This must certainly apply to Zois' scholarship for talented students, but not necessarily for scholarships for deficient professions. We also wonder whether we can even talk about deficit jobs if there is so much interest in studying these professions that the services have not been able to accept and process all applications. These calls are intended to encourage participation in programmes for which there is no interest, but it has shown that interest is still present, perhaps even too much. We can therefore justifiably claim that at least some candidates were interested in the grant and not in the profession. There are certainly some of them that have not been successful in running for other scholarships, and at least partial cash assistance would make their education significantly easier. We therefore rightly expect that in the future we will also try to resolve the broader causes of such a large number of applications for scholarships for deficient professions. This also includes a better response to the needs of the market, which is a problem that we are not only facing in Slovenia. From the moment the state detects the needs for a particular profession, and to the moment that persons are trained for this profession, that is, years pass. The question is, will the services wait for the students to finish their schooling? However, this is a broader issue that we will have to address in the future. It is important that we have the right mechanisms to promote interest in the deficit professions, and according to our assessment, the government law will also contribute to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the calculation of the financial liability of the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Say good-bye again! The following shall be governed by the proposal for a new Law on the Accounting of the Financial Liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from Pension and Disability Insurance. First time. The area of accounting for the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance in accordance with the provisions of the new ZPIZ-2, which has been in force since 2013. The new Pension and Disability Insurance Act has also transmitted some innovations in the regulation of the settlement of financial obligations under Article 161 of the ZPIZ-2 and therefore the applicable law should be replaced by a new law. This is a very technical and implementing regulation which accurately defines the procedure for the Office of Pension and Disability Insurance to account for obligations to the State or to the State budget arising from the recognition and administration of rights under special conditions or due to the failure of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Second news. The proposal for a law on the accounting of financial liabilities also relates to the determination of the amount of the State's obligation to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs, so-called SOP. The way in which the basic obligation is established is the same as the judgments of the court on the basis of the current law on accounting. Thus, the obligation of the State of the Merchandise Fund to members of the Merchandise Fund to enter insurance in accordance with 31 December 1982 is the full amount of the pension received by the Merchandise Fund, but up to a maximum of 26 % of the minimum pension base established by the ZPIZ-2. Reimbursement of the cost of payment of pensions at the rate of 1 % of the State's actual liabilities shall be reduced. In recent years, due to the absurd formula contained in the applicable Accounting Act, the amount of the SOP's reimbursement was almost the same as the underlying liabilities. The novelty is a provision that the condition for the existence of a State obligation to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs does not take into account the acquisition of the pension age in accordance with the period prior to 1 January 1983. A number of insured persons fulfil the condition of entry into insurance in accordance with 31 December 1982, since before the exercise of the pension right of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs they have acquired a pension period prior to that date. From now on, the fund for these insured persons will not be able to claim compensation from the State as they were not actually included in the insurance under the fund before 31 December 1982. The State's obligation to the Fund shall continue until a member of the Fund has exercised the right to an old, early or invalid pension under the law governing compulsory pension and disability insurance. It has already been stipulated in the Accounting Act that the obligation of the State lasts until the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension under the general rules have been met and a proportionate part has been fulfilled since then. We have not implemented these provisions in practice, as the payment of proportional work has not been sufficiently specified. In the public debate, we received comments from the SOP, which could not be accepted because we would maintain the current situation in this area. The proposal for a new law follows judicial practice and the purpose of co-financing the State of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs. In order to reduce the budget expenditure for the Fund, it is therefore necessary to adopt the Law on the Accounting of Financial Liabilities in the form proposed. In addition, this is a third novelty, and the proposal for a new law also refers to the rights of those insured persons who have been assigned by the Republic authorities to work in the federal bodies of the former SFRJ. These beneficiaries shall be recognised as part of the pension in the form of an allowance in the amount of the difference between the pension awarded in accordance with the applicable rules in the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the period completed by the SFRJ body and the sums of the two retirement pensions recognised under the provisions of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social insurance. In view of what I have said, I hope that you will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u21	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President. Hello again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities shall be as a parent responsible working body at its 19th session. 1. 2016 dealt with the proposal for a law on the accounting of the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance. Representatives of the Government participated in the work of the Committee, representatives of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs, as well as representatives of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia participated. The draft law was examined on a regular basis. The Act has also previously addressed the National Council or its Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which has supported the proposed solutions. In the debate itself, it was stressed and presented that there were three key solutions. First time. This is the area of regulation of the settlement of the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance in accordance with the provisions of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act adopted at the end of 2012, so-called STIZ-2. Another time. Calculation of the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia. Third time. The technical exercise of the rights referred to in Article 17 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia shall be regulated. The new ZPIZ-2 brought changes in the regulation of special allowances for independent entrepreneurs and employers who employ older workers or employers who first employ workers, also in the field of contributions for disabled persons and disabled companies and employment centres, which also affects the arrangements for calculating the financial obligation of the State. The proposed law also regulates the level of liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs relating to the payment of pensions up to 26 % of the minimum pension base established by the ZPIZ-2 for pensioners of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs who entered the insurance after 1. 1. 1993. The draft law is also governed by the right to work on pensions in the form of an allowance for the amount of the difference between pensions awarded under the applicable rules in the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the period completed by the authorities of the SFRJ and the sum of the two old pensions recognised under the provisions of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Serbia on social insurance ratified by the law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social insurance and an administrative agreement on the implementation of the agreement between the two States in the field of social insurance. Within the framework of its powers, the Legislative and Legal Service has also made a statement, with some comments on the provisions of the individual articles to which the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups have also been submitted, which have taken full account of these recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Services. The discussion further stressed that all open issues between the Ministry, i.e. between the country at one and the SOP, the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs, on the other hand, cannot be resolved on the Committee. However, we agreed that a dialogue that will bring solutions will also be needed in the future. At the conclusion, the Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups, but did not adopt the amendments prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups - Christian Democrats. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the calculation of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance in November, despite the fact that the proposal was not in line with the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs. Marriage brings quite a bit of news. Terminologically, it is in line with the 2012 amendments to the ZPIZ-2, as well as the more favourable dosage of pensions for persons who, on a proposal from the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, have been elected to positions or appointed to work in the bodies of the former SFRJ, as it should be pointed out that the legislator did not know the circle of beneficiaries of the more favourable pensions when adopting the law. To a greater extent, however, the proposal of the law concerns the Fund of Merchants and Entrepreneurs, and we really regret the fact that the law has not been harmonized with them. The proposed law provides for a new regulation of the liability of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs relating to pension payments up to 26 % of the minimum pension base for pensioners who entered the insurance until 1 January 1983. The obligation of the State to a member of the Revolving Fund shall be extended until the member fulfils the conditions for obtaining entitlements to old age, early or invalidity pensions under the law governing compulsory pension and invalidity insurance. We attach to the opinion of the Merchant Fund, which, with the proposed amendments on the level of coverage of eligible pension costs, which is falling to 1%, does not agree. We also agree with the Fund's proposal that the State's obligation to the Fund cannot only last until a member of the Merchant Fund exercises the right to an old, early or invalid pension, as it is two separate insurance. It seems entirely unfounded to us that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the proposal for a law that the obligations of the State and the Fund are not established clearly enough. The Fund of Entrepreneurs and Craftsmen has already received many, we can say all the actions against the State, which means that the obligations between the State and the Fund have been established sufficiently clearly and have been decided in concrete terms on the basis of these provisions by the courts. The purpose of this Act is therefore not to establish more clear obligations, but rather to intervene unilaterally in the operation of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs, and in particular to intervene unilaterally and retroactively in the rights and conditions under which entrepreneurs have paid into the Fund. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have proposed amendments that would adequately remedy the problems raised, but were not confirmed by coalition parties. The law on our part remains inadequate, so we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u25	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, and thank you for the last time today! In short, the position of the Desus Group towards the Law on the calculation of the financial liabilities of the State from pension and disability insurance. The proposal for a law that we are considering today is essentially a regulation that allows for the enforcement of the State's financial obligations under pension and disability insurance. This law is, if I may say so, a kind of technical law allowing the application of Article 161 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This obliges the State budget to pay benefits from pension and disability insurance in the event of the loss of contributions to the pension fund from cases where the rights do not originate from the contributions paid by the beneficiaries. This is more than 30 of these different cases, but of course the state has committed itself to. What's the point of the prescription that's ahead of us? It's basically three sets or three segments. Firstly, it is a matter of calculating the liabilities which must be in line with the new pension law, so-called ZPIZ-2. Secondly, it is additionally possible on the basis of the provisions of the Constitutional Court, pardon, Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, to exercise rights to persons who were elected or appointed to functions in federal bodies in the time of the former State, i.e. the SFRJ, on a proposal from the authorities of Slovenia, following the principle of legal certainty. Thirdly, the third set-up is the regulation of more than a decade-long dispute between the State and the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs. As a result, the primary objective of the State is to ensure social security for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is correct and understandable that the State has taken care of financial support for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, since they could not be included in the general public and compulsory system of pension and disability insurance until 1965. It accepted this obligation 15 years ago, for all those members of the Fund who entered insurance by the end of 1982. It is undeniable that the craftsmen and entrepreneurs who paid the fund receive two pensions; one of the titles of what they paid themselves into the fund, with the emphasis being that the fund itself, without State interference, has determined the amount of premiums, the conditions of retirement under this system and the resulting rights or the amount of the pension, while the other pension is received from the compulsory pension system in accordance with the conditions and certain rights set out here and are clearly higher than those in accordance with which the craftsmen and entrepreneurs are included on a voluntary basis. It is also necessary to know, and to make it clear, that because our pension system is based on validation, especially solidarity, we cover all active insured persons or, if you want, we pay about 150 euros per month for pensioners and entrepreneurs from the public system. It is particularly important in this law, and I must make it clear in this place that the rights vested in them by the State will not be reduced in the light of the prevailing situation. The problems that have led to long-standing disputes between the State and the Fund should be interpreted in different interpretations as to what and how much the State is obliged to contribute to these insurers. The proposal for this law is, according to the opinion of our Group Member, prepared in such a way that there will be no more opportunities and opportunities for different interpretations and different interpretations of this provision. At this point, it would not touch on the costs of the operation of the fund, which are enormously high and do not base or are not the result of direct payment to its pensioners, its former craftsmen, but mainly or mainly for the costs of the commercial insurance offered by this fund. On conclusion. In view of the fact that Desus is familiar with the story, the Fund's situation is certainly in line with the proposed solutions in this law, but given that pension facilities are in fact poorer because of the various facts, from the demographic situation, which is just as it is, to all those linked to the grey economy and non-payment of contributions, it is very poor or already very poor and therefore a high stake is needed, a high proportion of the country. Once again, on this occasion, we would like to draw attention to the need for the so-called cleansing of the pension allowance of all that, I will not say ballast, but to what does not belong to it. At the same time, of course, which may even be of the utmost importance and essential importance, it ensures the smooth payment of pensions to all those who have earned or spent a lot of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u27	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello again! We have before us the proposal for a law on the accounting of the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance, supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The draft law regulates the right to work on a pension in the form of a supplement to former federal staff. This is measured at the amount of the difference between the Slovenian pension according to the rules of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the period completed by the SFRJ body and the sums of the two old pensions recognised under the provisions of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on social insurance. The contributions to the pension and disability insurance of former federal staff were properly paid to the Serbian pension fund in accordance with the legal arrangements in force in the SFRY. By owning and adopting the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, our country has established a new system by which the right to an old-age pension is known to insured persons on the basis of contributions they have made to the Slovenian system during their active working life. However, for those insured who have paid contributions in the second system for part of their working life, we have concluded social insurance agreements to ensure that workers acquire pension rights in all schemes in which they paid contributions in accordance with the ratio to the entire insurance period. Furthermore, the proposal of the Law on the Budgeting of the Financial Liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from Pension and Disability Insurance replaces the applicable law and new regulations on the recalculation of the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance in accordance with the provisions of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was received in December 2012. The proposal for a law specifically regulates the State's obligation to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs, making it impossible to interpret these provisions differently. The new law also provides for a new way of determining a basic obligation which is the same as the judgments of the court on the basis of the applicable law. The law reduces the cost of payment of pensions to 1 % of the State's actual liabilities. The novelty also provides that the condition for the existence of a State obligation to the Fund does not take into account the acquisition of the pension age in the fund for the period before 1 January 1983. It is also a new provision that the State's obligation to the Fund shall last until a member of the Fund has exercised the right to an old, early or invalid pension under the law governing compulsory pension and disability insurance. From 1956 to 1964, the trust fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs was the sole holder of the pension insurance of craftsmen, and since 1964, craftsmen have also had to participate in compulsory pension insurance at the ZPIZ. The insurance in accordance with 1964 can thus be understood as an additional pension insurance of craftsmen. In 1999, at the time of the adoption of the STIZ-1, the State decided to provide the Fund with certain funds for the pension of the old pensioners of the fund that had been included in the insurance scheme before 1983. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act allowed individual categories of insured persons to acquire and enforce, exceptionally in cases and in the manner laid down in the special law, the right to a pension under more favourable conditions and the means to increase obligations arising from the acquisition and exercise of the right to an old pension under more favourable conditions, while providing the Republic of Slovenia with the State Budget. As with PPIZ-1, PPIZ-2 has similarly provided for the provision of funds from the State budget to cover liabilities for retired members of the Fund of Mercenaries who have acquired pension rights. The amount of this obligation is more precisely regulated by the Act on the Accounting of the Financial Liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from Pension and Disability Insurance, which did not provide sufficient clarity to the State's obligations to the Merchants and Entrepreneurs Fund. As a result, disputes between the Chamber of Commerce and Entrepreneurs and the Republic of Slovenia regarding the level of the State's obligation and the time for these disputes to end and the uncertainties to be settled once and for all. Since we believe that the provisions of the new law will also allow for its smooth implementation, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we support most of the proposals in this law, including the intention to reduce the budget's obligations to the fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs. However, we cannot support the law because we cannot assume responsibility for this law to be judged, as we have already pointed out on the committee. Remember that in December we had to pay as much as €42 million of compensation to Croatia from the budget and we are back on slippery ground with this law. At first glance, it is simple, the number of beneficiaries of the refund would be reduced by a low of 5 000 600 000 and the budget would save 13.6 million euros annually. So far, all is well, but the key issue remains unresolved. After the new refund will amount to 1% of the total operating costs of the Trade and Entrepreneurs Fund, and State Secretary Pogačar explained that they came to this figure by analogy with the operating costs of the ZPIZ, which should be 0.8%; but already in the next sentence he said that he was aware that it was not a comparable entity, if not another, because the volume economy works here because the ZPIZ turns EUR 5 billion annually. Therefore, we simply cannot put our hands in the fire so that this solution can endure before the courts. So our position is based on the precautionary principle, and I am surprised at the ease with which the coalition adopted this law. A fellow Servant, for example, stated on the committee that she was, quote: "It is obvious that this is a matter of certain disagreements in positions which we will not resolve on this committee, so I think it is inappropriate to discuss them." End of quote. Our position here is the opposite. In this case, it would be better to wait for judicial practice than to make an incomplete decision that could eventually stand. In any event, they would be pleased if the coalition, in opposition to the health insurance lobby's supporters, showed some determination as it did against the Stakeholders' and Businessmen's Fund. As we say, this concerns us, we support the rest of the solutions. However, I must also point out the refinancing of the costs that the PIC has or will have for the payment of pensions to former employees of the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Affairs. Fortunately, an SDS amendment has not been adopted here to delete this provision, as it was an obvious case of rematching the former country's diplomats. So against the diplomats of the country who led the foreign policy, which had endlessly more backbone than Slovenia, which did not hide under any of the blocks that did not go through materialism and which connected more than 100 world countries into an alliance to eliminate colonialism and reduce global inequality. We therefore consider the work of these employees to be honorable and deserve the exact same treatment as Slovenian officials. When we consider the issue of pension refunds for which contributions were not paid to the Slovenian cash register, we cannot pass the unfair payment of some of our citizens, former JLA officers. They still do not receive military pensions or receive Slovenian pensions at all. We also consider this law to be incomplete and will therefore abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u31	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u32	Dear President, Minister or Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Proposers of the law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities claim that the amendment we are considering is a technical amendment to the law. Perhaps so, but in New Slovenia we claim that the novel causes unequal treatment and unfair solutions, which can also be constitutionally controversial. Although several solutions have been proposed, for us the most controversial changes are regarding the calculation of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs. Christian Democrats and I listened to the amendments at the committee's own meeting to help the proposers correct the law in the direction of more just solutions, but unfortunately there was no willingness by the ministry. Traders and entrepreneurs have been discriminated against in the previous system because they have not even had the opportunity to retire. Those who have not experienced this experience find it difficult to imagine what this means for individuals and for their families. At least what the State is obliged to do today is that by regularly and fairly paying its financial obligations it helps the Fund to remedy this part of its business. In our opinion, the conditions for the Fund of Merchants and Entrepreneurs should be aligned with those applicable to the Institute of Pensions, Disability Insurance. We can also read about the contested solutions in the broad opinion of the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council. The fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia clearly point to unacceptable proposed solutions to the law. Christian Democrats are urged to listen to calls for the proposed law to be amended accordingly in order to take full account of the comments of the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will not support the bill in the form proposed now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u33	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the calculation of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in pension and disability insurance introduces changes resulting from the provisions of the new pension law adopted in 2012, the rights laid down in Article 17 of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of Slovenia and the amendments resulting from certain provisions of the current law relating to the calculation of financial obligations to the Fund of Crafts and Entrepreneurs. The new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which entered into force in January 2013, does not provide for a reduction of the pension for part of the pension due to retirement prior to the completion of the full age, and has also introduced certain changes in the provision of special benefits for independent entrepreneurs and employers who employ older workers. These and some other amendments require compliance with new pension legislation. A completely new content of the bill is the provision of Article 7, which is based on the rights set out in Article 17 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, persons who have been elected or appointed to positions in the bodies of the former Yugoslavia on a proposal from the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia shall be granted rights under the rules applicable to officials or workers in the national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia or the former Yugoslavia, if they are more favourable to them. The beneficiaries referred to in Article 7 of the draft law will thus be granted a new pension in the form of an allowance of the difference between a personal pension granted in accordance with the applicable rules in Slovenia, taking into account the period completed by the body of the former Yugoslavia and the sums of the two personal pensions recognised under the provisions of that social agreement. The slightly more resilient changes introduced by the bill include changes in the accounting of financial liabilities to the Fund of Merchants and Entrepreneurs. In doing so, the level of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia shall be new, in such a way that the obligation of the State for the members who have entered into the insurance is in accordance with 31. 12. 1982, the total amount of the pension fund but not more than 26 % of the minimum pension base established by the applicable pension legislation. The bill also specifies when the obligation of members of the Trades Fund to pay a pension is terminated until the member fulfils the conditions for obtaining an old, early or invalid pension. A new formula for calculating the cost of pension payments is also laid down, with the implementation of the proposal of the Law making the Merchant Fund eligible for a flat-rate amount of 1% of the State's actual liabilities. At the expense of a different cost calculation, the Fund is expected to be less than 13 million per year. According to the current formula, which is not directly linked to the basic obligation of the State, it happens that the amount to reimburse the costs of the Merchant Fund has significantly exceeded the total cost of the operation of the Fund for several years. On the basis of the above, in the SMC Group we will support the proposal for a law on the accounting of the financial liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended proposal have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the return of unlawfully disposed cultural property subject matter after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear President, Members, Members and others present! On 15 March 2014, a revised Directive 2014/60 of the European Union on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member States was adopted. The Directive had to be transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Directive 93/7, which regulated this area prior to renovation, was transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Derogated Cultural Heritage Objects in 2003 and the Regulations on the Types of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage in 2004. In monitoring the implementation of the Directive in force so far, it has been found that the return procedures are not being sufficiently successful and that the number of successful procedures can be increased by appropriate amendments. Directive 93/7 does not support the procedures for the return of all national wealth in individual Member States. They note that uniform types and financial thresholds are not an acceptable criterion for determining the national wealth for which applications for return may be submitted. The one-year deadline for the submission of applications was significantly too short and has deprived some countries of the time limit for the successful implementation of the procedure. Often, the successful implementation of the procedure and the financial compensation was also denied due diligence, which led the owners to demonstrate that they had acquired the item in good faith. The communication between the Commission and the Member States was not fast enough and straightforward enough. In those problems, the latter have aligned with the Commission on the amendments leading to the revision of the Directive, so that Member States are able to protect their national wealth in accordance with domestic law and to initiate procedures and enforce requests within reasonable time limits and effectively. The revised Directive shall be fully transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by means of the proposed amendment of the law. The law has no effect on local communities or civil society. It shall apply exclusively to individual cases of unlawful acquisition of objects of the cultural heritage of natural or legal persons. The material was published on E-democracy websites and on the website of the Ministry of Culture until a certain date. No responses were received to the public on the proposal. The Republic of Slovenia shall, by amending the Directive, introduce into its legal order an amendment to the applicable law in the articles relating to that Directive. The amendment of the law follows the principle of the protection of cultural heritage and, according to the content of the Directive, enables a higher level of protection of national wealth in the event of possible unlawful removal from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and other Member States. Thus, the amendment of the law lays down in more detail the provisions relating to national wealth. The time limit for lodging an application shall be extended from one to three years from the date on which the State finds out the location of the case. The period for verifying whether the object of the return is the subject of a cultural heritage shall be extended from two to six months. That extension shall allow for the effective implementation of the procedure. The deadlines in force so far have shown, as I have already said, that the more difficult cases need a longer period of verification and evidence collection. The novelty shall also specify more detailed due diligence. The possession of an item in good faith is expanded by a more detailed indication of the treatment of due diligence. Such a provision obliges owners or owners of the items to act responsibly in the verification of origin, which has so far been very poorly identified and supported. The central authorities of the Member States shall communicate with each other through the IMI Internal Market Information System module, which is specially adapted to cultural heritage. This makes it possible to communicate more quickly and more easily, contrary to the information previously in writing. The Directive requires Member States to use the IMI system by their competent authorities. The amendment extends the reporting period for the application of the Directive from three to five years. Communication in the IMI system allows Member States to monitor the situation and procedures in a direct manner, making it reasonable to extend the rejection of reporting to five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 8th regular meeting, on 13 January 2016, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legal and Legislative Service. At the presentation of the latter, their representative said that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups followed their opinion. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which in its opinion supported the bill, also gave its opinion. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said that the aim of the adoption of the law is to ensure full compliance with the Law on the Return of Unlawful Objects of Cultural Heritage with Directive 2014/60EU. It explained that the amendment of the law follows the principle of protection of cultural heritage and, in view of the content of the Directive, allows for a higher level of protection of national wealth in the event of possible unlawful removal from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and other Member States. Without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition Polish groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he also voted on the articles of the bill and also adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Members, Members of Parliament, have a good day! The revised Return of Cultural Heritage Directive, which has been unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member States, has brought about quite a few changes. Given that the return procedures so far have not been sufficiently successful, the Directive had to be amended. One of the reasons for the failure of the procedures carried out was, for example, a short deadline for the submission of a proposal for the return of the object of cultural heritage. Therefore, the current three-year deadline for submitting this proposal will apply instead of a one-year one-year one and will be counted from the date on which the State finds out the location of the object. Similarly, the Directive in force did not define in sufficient detail the standard of due diligence by which the owners demonstrated that they had acquired the object in good faith. The standard will now be further defined and the owners will be obliged to act responsibly in verifying the origin of cultural heritage. In practice, however, the need for improvements in communication between the Commission and the Member States has also emerged and the Directive requires Member States to communicate with each other through the Internal Market Information System module, which is particularly adapted to cultural heritage. The proposed law transposes the recast directive into our legal order. The adoption of the amendment will thus allow for a higher level of protection of national wealth in the event of possible unlawful alienation from our territory. Therefore, in the Desus Group we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u41	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! One of the fundamental principles of the European Union is the free movement of goods. This may, in certain cases, be limited, inter alia, to the protection of national treasures of artistic, historical and or archaeological value, as referred to in Article 30 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. Therefore, a Member State may provide that certain items of artistic, historical or archaeological value are not to be removed from the country unsupervised or without authorisation. The Union's open borders allow for the possibility of misuse of national rules on the control of the amount and export of cultural objects, and the European Union has, by means of a directive in 1993, provided for a system of returning items which, contrary to national regulatory rules, have been removed from the territory of the Member States and transferred to the territory of other Member States. The compatibility of Slovenian legislation with that Directive was ensured only by the adoption of the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal Items of Cultural Heritage in 2003. At that time, the regulation of the system for the return of cultural objects which were illegally brought from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State was also fully exempt from the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The purpose of the amendment, which is the first since the adoption of the law in 2003, is to adapt the revised Directive adopted in 2014. This, inter alia, allows a Member State to determine its own national wealth, to increase the liability of voluntary owners and to extend the time limit for the commencement of the return procedure, from one to three years from the date on which the State finds out about the location of the object. The discussion on the working body raised a question concerning the restoration of cultural heritage units, which does not have a direct link to the proposal itself. As we know, Slovenia, with some countries, has open questions about cultural heritage units that were alienated from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, particularly during the period around and during World War II. For example, in 1940, Italy evacuated 25 original artists from Kopra and Piran because of the war conditions, as they then said. The entire archives of Kopra were also held in June 1944. A little less, however, remained open questions with Hungary, Austria and some former SFRJ republics. As during the period of adoption of the directive, which is the basis for the proposed amendments to the Law on the Return of Unlawful Objects of Cultural Heritage, the then representatives of the Government, the Directive, as well as the proposal for a law, will not in themselves have direct effects on the resolution of this problem, for the Slovenian culture of extremely pressing problems. The original directive was adopted in 1993 and is not binding back. Nevertheless, it establishes certain mechanisms and principles that could also be applied to decide on the above-mentioned cases. But without bilateral cooperation, and above all agreement, it will not work. We therefore welcome the Minister's explanations that diplomatic resolution of these issues has not died. As it is said, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Return of Unlawful Objects of Cultural Heritage is based on the adoption of Directives of the European Union and is supported in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u43	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will support the amendment of the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage. It is a matter of transposition of the revised European Directive into the Slovenian legal order. We estimate that the solutions proposed are positive and will improve the situation in this area. In monitoring the implementation of the Directive in force so far, it was found that return procedures are not sufficiently successful. They found that uniform types and financial thresholds are not an acceptable criterion for determining national wealth for which applications for return may be submitted. The one-year deadline for lodging applications was too short. Due diligence has been defined. The communication between the European Commission and the Member States was not fast enough and straightforward enough. Since the novel is satisfactorily correcting the situation in all these areas, we will support it in the United Left. At the same time, it is important to note another very important issue, which is only indirectly related to the substance of the law. When I was on the committee, I highlighted the issue of cultural heritage, which was exterminated by Italian fascists from Slovenian Istria in 1940. The Fascist occupying authority has taken art from churches, museums and monasteries. A good half a year ago, the Minister of Culture rushed to Rome and also spoke to the President of the Papal Council for Culture, Cardinal Gianfranco Ravasi, and Italian Minister of Culture, Dario Franceschini. The Minister replied to the committee that things were moving forward mainly on the diplomatic path and that it was not a political but professional question. In our view, more effort should be made, of course also through political channels, to bring this priceless heritage back. In this area, it is certainly necessary to move and return the fascist cultural heritage to Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u45	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u46	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the return of illegally disposed cultural objects to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia transposes Directive 2014/60EU, adopted in 2014. This Directive empowers the Member States of the European Union, according to the applicant, to determine their national wealth. In the Republic of Slovenia, national wealth is determined under the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The novelty shall extend the time limits for lodging applications for refusal of unlawfully disposed items from one to three years from the date on which the State finds out the location of the object. It shall also extend the time limit for verifying whether the object of the return is the subject of a cultural heritage, from two to six months. An important upgrade to the current system of returning these items is the introduction of Member States' obligations to communicate within the Internal Market Information System called IMI. The novelty, however, sets out in more detail the due diligence which obliges the owners of the items to act responsibly in the verification of origin. Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment, as we believe it allows a higher level of protection of national wealth and we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be as active as possible in the area of the return of art, which was illegally seized during World War II in our territory and taken to the occupying countries, as some of them have not yet been returned to the right owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u47	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u48	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage was adopted in 2003. Directive 93/7 of the European Union has been introduced into the Slovenian legal order. A limited directive has established an arrangement whereby Member States of the European Union can ensure the return of cultural heritage items classified as national wealth belonging to the common categories of cultural heritage and removed from their territory. The Directive also covered cultural heritage items classified as national wealth and forming an integral part of public collections or inventory of church institutions. The Directive has introduced administrative cooperation between Member States on their national wealth, which is closely linked to their cooperation with Interpol and other competent authorities in the area of stolen works of art, and which includes in particular the recording of lost, stolen or illegally disposed cultural objects which form part of their national wealth and their public collections. The current Law on the Return of Unlawful Objects of Cultural Heritage has thus enabled the cultural heritage of Slovenia, which has been estranged from our territory, to be returned after 1993. The draft law we are considering today thus transposes the provisions of Directive 2014/60, which, inter alia, allow each individual Member State to determine its own national wealth. In order to improve the implementation of the procedure for the return of cultural objects, the proposal for a law extends the deadline for the submission of a proposal from one to three years from the date on which the State has found out where the object of cultural heritage is located and the time limit for verifying whether the object is indeed the subject of cultural heritage is extended. With the current two months, this period shall be extended to six months as it is envisaged that a longer period will allow Member States to take all necessary measures to protect the subject of cultural heritage and prevent any possible avoidance of the recovery procedure. In order to improve communication between the Commission and the Member States, the proposal allows the use of an information system module for the internal market, which is specially adapted to cultural heritage. The proposal for the amendment of the Law on the Return of Unlawful Objects of Cultural Heritage will be supported by Members in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u49	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As already mentioned, we have some amendments to the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage. It has already been discussed on the Committee, the home working body, a few weeks ago, showing that there are smaller, otherwise necessary corrections, which are mainly in the direction of coordination with the recently adopted European Directive of 2014. The predecessors have already said what are the key solutions in this area, so I would not repeat them, and the fact is that the debate on the Committee has shown that these changes are minor and we are not talking about systemic measures, but at the time of the public debate there were no warnings and concerns from which the law touches. In the SDS Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u51	We are done with the presentation from the troupes of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the media law, in another defence within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government – Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u52	Dear President, Members, Members and other present, welcome once again! The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Law deals with some of the most important issues that could be addressed without a basis in a comprehensive analysis of the media landscape and the media development strategy. The proposal for a law only corrects certain substantive shortcomings that have made it impossible to implement the individual provisions consistently, which have been alerted to in recent years by the Slovenian Cultural and Media Inspectorate, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, the Constitutional Court and the addressees of the provisions. In line with the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, comprehensive amendments to the Media Act will be prepared on the basis of a media strategy already being prepared intensively at the Ministry of Culture and for this purpose through the external expert commission, we are also holding public debates on key issues and issues in the media. The main solutions set out in the proposal for a law relate to the obligation to draw up rules for commenting, by which we want to ensure more effective self-regulation of hate speech or offensive speech on the Internet and consequently reduce it. Then, the deadline for lodging the request for publication of the amendment, whereby we wish to remedy the non-compliance with the Constitution, in determining the time limit for the submission of the request for publication of the amendment. Control over the implementation of the law, by which we want to ensure greater rapid and effective inspection control. Then the conversion of the amount of fines from the tolaric to the euro amounts, whereby we want to influence the greater clarity, certainty and legal certainty of the regulation; and the mandatory reproduction of part of the quota of Slovenian music during the afternoon, by which we want to ensure the protection and promotion of Slovenian music creativity and Slovenian language and to promote Slovenian cultural and national identity. As a result of some incorrect interpretations in the public, the 24-hour quota for Slovenian music does not change or make it easier – the number of Slovenian songs that have to be broadcast within 24 hours remains the same as before, as the prescribed quota remains the same as it is now. This is 20% for commercial radios, 25% for radios with programmes of special importance and 40% for national radios. However, Slovenian music will also have to be played in the afternoon and not especially at night, as has been the case with some radios so far; unfortunately also with nationals. However, following the adoption of the coalition amendment, this will mean, in approximately those percentages, that it will also be broadcast during the afternoon of 6 a.m. to 19 p.m. The bill was drawn up on the basis of a broad public debate involving representative and professional organisations in the field of media, journalism, advertising and music, video and film creation, NGOs in the field of culture, media and human rights, media publishers, political parties and all relevant national authorities. The draft law was also sent to the previous opinion of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it is worth noting that the Ministry of Culture has received written support from the Association of Poets of Slovenian Music, the Union of Music Artists of Slovenia, the Slovenian Union of Music Artists, the Music Forum and others on the proposed arrangements for the performance of Slovenian music during the afternoon. In the last edition, the area of control was also fully coordinated with the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. However, in the context of the Committee on Culture, all editorial and nomological corrections were also taken into account on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The key proposals and comments made in the public debate related to the regulation of the obligation to establish rules for commenting, the presentation of the compulsory share of Slovenian music and the supervision of the implementation of the law. The Ministry of Culture has aligned the proposed solutions to the maximum extent possible with the professional and interested public. In particular, the following key proposals have been taken into account: that a clearer record of the regime of commenting and regulation of hate speech on the Internet does not create censorship and excessive interference with freedom of expression and some other proposals, which may also be presented in more detail in the context of the debate on individual articles or amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u53	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Dragan Matić, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 8th regular meeting, on 13 January 2016, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Media submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. On 26 November 2015, on the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee held a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining an opinion and views of the expert and the general public on the proposal for a law. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service and has made some comments to it. Her representative explained, inter alia, that they had comments on individual articles mainly on the clarity and improvement of proposed solutions and nomotechnics. In part, however, constitutional aspects were also touched in Article 3. The most extensive comment was made on the solution governing the obligation to play the prescribed quota for Slovenian music during the daytime. Their concern was related to the proportionality of the proposed solution which interferes with media autonomy in the dissemination of the circle of content, the constitutional right to freedom of expression, as well as with the free economic initiative. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which did not support the proposal, also gave its opinion. Her representative drew attention, inter alia, to the uncertainties with regard to the role of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services (ACOS) in overseeing the implementation of the law on radio and television programmes of particular importance, programme requirements and radio and television activities. He also highlighted the issue of so-called Slovenian music quotas and the intention of the proposer to protect Slovenian language and music production in Slovenian with this measure. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD, SDS and by Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said that the aim of the bill is in particular to increase the clarity and certainty of the regulation achieved by addressing certain substantive shortcomings and uncertainties. Further, to ensure more effective self-regulation of hate speech or offensive speech online and consequently its reduction and elimination of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Further, greater protection and promotion of the Slovenian language and preservation of Slovenian cultural and national identity in the performance of the mandatory share of Slovenian music and greater speed and efficiency of inspection control. The discussion was mainly about putting Slovenian music's share in the daytime of the broadcast and monitoring the implementation of programme requirements and restrictions. With regard to the placement of the Slovenian music in the daily playing time, it was proposed by some discussers that the daily broadcasting time, during which at least half of the Slovenian music participation set in the novel between 6 p.m. and 22 p.m. should be divided into two parts, at intervals between 6 p.m. and 22 p.m. and 6 p.m. Some considered that at least 90% of the music played at these intervals must be Slovenian music; at least half of the share of the music played should be music produced by Slovenian creators and creators, who are under five years of age. Others felt that the daily time of playing the Slovenian music should be more replaced. The aim of placing the Slovenian music's share in the daily playing time is to ensure greater accessibility of Slovenian music at a time when the availability to potential audiences is the highest. Therefore, they considered that the radio media, which is mainly heard during day-to-day activities, would be effective only if the proposed measure was further limited to 6-18 hours. At the end of the debate, the Committee adopted amendments to SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups; the amendment of Mr Jani Möderndorfer was not adopted. It has become a meaningless amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! Since the adoption of the latest major amendments to the Media Act this year, it has been around for ten years. We would expect the anniversary to be marked by an in-depth debate on the fundamental challenges facing the media today. But it's not like that. In order to reduce the strategy in this area, which should be adopted in accordance with the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture last year, we can only seek superficial conclusions on the situation of the media which is invisible. The issue of the integrity of journalistic work and the social status of journalists, media life with special importance status, transparency of ownership, ownership pluralism and the prevention of abuse of the dominant position in the media market are only some that remain unanswered. So every so long, we are witnessing partial attempts to eliminate some chronic anomaly within a complex system. Repressing Slovenian music creativity on the margin is one of such anomalies, which once again refers to this once-in-a-lifetime attempt to change the media law. In the trends of the melting of cultural diversity, the language is one of the last witnesses of national identity, which is most pronounced right next to the fifth word. Therefore, as such, it is not subject to the regulation of the acquis of the European Union based on market openness. The language is one of the most numerous implementations of the declared concept of multiculturalism in European integration. For this reason, individual Member States are also left to decide on the extent of the requirements for the music content of domestic production in the media. The concern for Slovenian music creativity is expressed in various documents, which are in one way or another derived from the constitutional placement of the Slovenian language. Thus, she also found her place in a comprehensive strategic document on culture – in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017. As such, it is placed among the values that require particular care and cannot be left to the principles of a free market economy or its legality. On the basis of the above, in the Media Act, it set out the mandatory scope for the performance of Slovenian music at radio and television stations, all from the first reception in 2001. For various reasons, stations filled the required proportion of Slovenian music mostly during the nighttime, when the part of the day is also suitable for poorer listening or ratings. Such practice was reflected in the reduced presence of Slovenian music, interest in it dropped, demand for Slovenian musicians decreased. The circle was complete. The assumption of the insubordination of Slovenian music offered by opponents of the quota system has slowly become a structured reality. A clearer definition of time intervals at which the required range must be broadcast is an effective way to eliminate the anomaly of the existing regime. We therefore support the proposal, which stipulates that the main parts of the required volume of Slovenian music shall be broadcast between 6 a.m. and 19 p.m. A positive contribution is also the determination of a requirement for music under the age of two years. In order to effectively transpose the law into practice, the powers of the supervisory authority shall also be strengthened, while certain records shall be introduced for monitoring. In doing so, we refer to the competent ministry to the expectation that it will ensure a continuous evaluation of the implementation of new legal solutions so that good intentions do not become administrative problems. As the musicians warn, the clause on music quotas does not merely mean protection and promotion of Slovenian cultural identity and language; it is also a business opportunity for potential artists, textwriters and performers, and it is not possible to overlook the role that an encouraging creative environment has for the entire production of music, since it includes many very different jobs. Respected and respected! Slovenian music is one of the most widespread attributes of Slovenian culture; however, it will also have to be supported by interventions to other areas, including the functioning of collective organisations. We want the interest of culture to prevail in dealing with the issue, so we expect that the Ministry of Culture will play a significantly greater role in this process than in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will move forward with the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. The amendments to the Media Act bring three important innovations – regulation, commenting on websites with the aim of limiting hate speech, aligning the right to correction with the Constitutional Court's decision and the key point, redesigning the operation of the quota system. In the United Left, we will not oppose or support the law if our amendments are accepted. Online comments are often a collection of chauvinism, sexism, xenophobia and all possible stereotypes that pass into hate speech. Certainly, the right to freedom of speech is important, especially when the authoritarian control measures of the country we have witnessed in recent years are tightened. It is therefore not easy to settle this issue, and time will show whether some kind of self-regulation prescribed by law is even effective. Of course, this time's amendment to the Media Law is a key issue of quota, which is a rather controversial topic. It is problematic that their movements are often nationalistic, rather than acting as a measure to develop the quality and diversity of music production and to improve the social position of creators. The question we have to ask ourselves is, what is the so-called Slovenian music anyway? How many cousins down there, and how many miles across the border can we go to get this mark? Instead, we need to talk about quality music that stimulates cultural creativity, touches people's feelings, and people take it as their own. Music is a universal rumor, music becomes Slovenian through the process of processing, consumption and reproduction. The performer may have a certificate from the so-called Slovenianity, but his music may be completely empty and, at best, is a sound stage and, at worst, a sound disturbance. However, the State is a vehicle of public cultural interest and is therefore responsible for music culture – not only in the public media in its entirety. At the same time, we must recall the privatisation of national television frequencies in the mid-1990s when one of the first so-called wild privatisations took place under the strong influence of private lobbying around the then ruling party. The quotas are an administrative measure; their problem is that they do not focus on the level of production where music originates. Nevertheless, especially with the current extremely poor state of broadcasting and popular music, they can be a step towards improving the situation. With regard to the time limit, the coalition has now diverted the time of the third revision, while at the same time a part of the quotas are allocated to new music. This, in our view, is not a sufficient or effective measure, since there is no guarantee of quality and variety of music. Above all, there is no guarantee for the promotion of young and less established musicians. There is a fear that only some of the most exposed and, above all, the most commercially interesting performers and authors will be filled with music; including music produced by media owners and developed according to the results of telephone surveys. The quota system only makes sense if it is actually productive to encourage and develop domestic music production, that is to say, it will encourage younger and unenforced performers, improve the economic and social position of musicians and allow for quality and diverse growth of the whole scene – from creating concerts and other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will postpone the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u60	Dear Minister, President, colleague and colleague! We Slovenians are a largely small nation, so it is logical that we must protect our language and culture. We are Christian Democrats for the freeest possible economic initiative, yet the media space is a kind of exception. 20%, as currently the quota, is a small proportion of the regulated Slovenian music. But in the first place, it's sad that we have to prescribe this at all. It should be self-evident that in Slovenia we want to listen to and play Slovenian music first, support domestic musicians and help them improve the quality of their music and increase the opportunities for public entry. Christian Democrats believe that the current regulation of the area is too complicated and imprecise, so too much money to enable the development of domestic production flows abroad. In our opinion, the law is outdated and is in another analog age. Another problem with this novel is that it is not coherent with the public concerned. In Novi Slovenije we had some discussions with representatives of various organisations, and we also listened very carefully to speakers at the public presentation of opinions. The common denominator was almost all that the novel was bad, that it did not respond to the modern needs and situation in the media field and that the participants were not satisfied with such a proposal. Some point out that the proposed proportion of Slovenian music is even too low. Others add that it is not enough to protect Slovenian music and musicians and gives little financial incentives to Slovenian production. Some point out that the novel brings an even smaller percentage of Slovenian music and that quotas should be set for the hour precisely. ACOS protested that they had not taken part in the drafting of a law governing their powers in one part and that their proposals had not been taken into account. It was pointed out that quota regulation could interfere with editorial autonomy, the constitutional category of freedom of expression and the free economic initiative. In Novi Slovenija we have already proposed at the committee meeting, and this is again the point that the Ministry will consider different ways of enforcing major Slovenian music in radio and television programmes. Let's reverse the quota logic. The Ministry should determine by means of public calls for media content or frequency allocation that those media that broadcast more or more Slovenian music are therefore more targeted and have a higher priority in the allocation of funds for this purpose. Those who opt for a purely commercial program are also not compensated. We believe that this could better encourage the media to play Slovenian music. The proposed amendments to the law, Members of New Slovenia will not be opposed. However, we call on the competent ministry to introduce a new law into the National Assembly as soon as possible, which will be previously coordinated with all stakeholders and will address the challenges of the digital media era at an appropriate level.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have a second attempt by the Minister of Culture to change the quota system for Slovenian music. Judging from the discussions in the National Assembly, this time will be successful, but we did not expect to reach consensus and support with the creators, producers and those who play Slovenian music. The new version of the novel shows that the Ministry has taken some public comments on the definition of Slovenian music, as the definition of Slovenian music is wider. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we also support the restriction on playing Slovenian music daily; at the same time, we lack solutions to promote the production of quality Slovenian music. We are convinced that our music production is extremely important for the preservation of cultural and linguistic identity; at the same time, in the framework set by the government novel, quotas do not constitute disproportionate interference with editorial autonomy. Although we would like so much quality Slovenian music and such a cultural environment that quotas would not be necessary, the data clearly shows that a certain measure of coercion is still necessary if, of course, we want to listen to Slovenian music on Slovenian radio and television stations. As part of our hearing on the committee responsible, we have heard, among other things, that Slovenian listeners can already listen to Slovenian music on certain programmes, but in our opinion this is not enough. These programmes, which produce exclusively Slovenian music, can mostly be listened to only in regionally limited areas. Why not play Slovenian music on all programs, including the most listening ones?Oh, my God! And if we are pursuing the objective of maintaining cultural and linguistic identity, this is absolutely necessary. In addition, it would be necessary to provide better conditions for the creation of quality Slovenian music, which would then be broadcast on television and radio programmes. Estimates of how many songs Slovenian musicians create each year vary, and many are convinced that they are too few to provide quality Slovenian music every day. Therefore, in our view, the solution for more Slovenian music cannot be only in quotas. We also urgently need incentives for music creators to fill these quotas. We therefore expect comprehensive solutions from the Ministry of Culture to promote the production of quality Slovenian music. Possible solutions range from encouraging those programmes that support quality music creation to supporting concerts, music publishing, international cooperation and similar measures. Without these solutions, it can indeed happen that quality Slovenian music will not be enough to fill all such well-intentioned quotas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u64	President, thank you for your word. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of Culture has announced several times, last at the 8th meeting of the Committee on Culture, the intention of a comprehensive revision of media legislation. We would also like to see a genuine approach to the preparation of a national media development strategy, which will be the basis for the preparation of a comprehensive update of media legislation, as soon as possible in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. The proposed law solves only a small segment of the problems in the media field. The most time at the Committee's meeting was devoted to discussing the appropriateness of Article 86a's regulation, which determines the proportion of Slovenian music over the entire day. The proposal proposed by the Government makes it impossible to bypass the law in such a way that the prescribed quotas, which, as has already been said, remain the same with the amendment of the law so that these prescribed quotas are not only met at night. The Novela initially stipulated that half of the prescribed quota for Slovenian music should be played between 6 and 22 hours. The amended bill, which contains the amendment of the coalition on the parent committee, took into account the expectations of Slovenian music creators in such a way that the required time was reversed between 6 and 18 hours, in which 70 % of the daily quota of Slovenian music was to be broadcast. However, since we must not neglect the radio broadcasters or the position of the music editors, the coalition members subsequently tabled an amendment stipulating that the share of the total Slovenian music played between 6 and 19 hours should be 60% of the mandatory quota. Whether this is a made relationship will only be demonstrated by practice. In any case, the appropriateness of the regulation proposed depends on the sufficient quantity of quality Slovenian music production, which the legislator does not have a direct impact on. In any case, we believe that we are getting closer to the real purpose that Slovenian music has in the law. This is the expectation, which is justified, that the presence of Slovenian music on radio waves is all the time, even during the daytime. A minimum share of Slovenian music is also being re-established, which was first broadcast not more than two years ago. The consistent implementation of this measure will allow for the establishment of a public record at the Ministry of Culture. The draft law amends the time limit for publication of the amendment to three months from the date on which the person concerned has been informed of the publication; and this amendment follows the dictated by the Constitutional Court. The law further lays down the obligation of the media publisher to formulate rules of comment, the obligation to withdraw a comment that is not in accordance with published rules, as soon as possible or within 24 hours of the application, in order to establish a more effective self-regulation of the hate speech online. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, which imposes powers and measures in cases of violations of the law, shall exercise particular importance following the new inspection and criminal supervision of the provisions on radio and television programmes. Since all the purposes of the novel are justified, in the Group of Members of the Modern Centre, we certainly declare that we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, hello! We have already proposed a rather similar amendment to the Media Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group in early 2015, proposing a greater proportion of Slovenian music in Slovenian media, especially in the afternoon and in a larger proportion on national RTV. We decided to do so because the shares of Slovenian music at radio stations barely reach the current legal obligation. We are not talking about the dominant share of Slovenian music, but also about the survival of the Slovenian word in music. The fact that we are talking about the share of Slovenian music in our country and not about the share of foreign music shows our undervalued attitude towards Slovenian creators. It is even more controversial that it is to a large extent an abuse of the currently-lawed music quotas, as Slovenian music is played in more than 90% during the night. At the same time, it should be noted that many quotas have not been achieved at all, but inspection is very poor. Unfortunately, we did not at the same time propose amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act to regulate the area where we would give even greater emphasis to the control of Slovenian music, to collective organisations, and to the special role of Slovenian authors and creators, as well as to greater support for young or new authors and creators. The fact is that we often talk about how Slovenian culture deserves more support, but we will not achieve this with larger subsidies, but with greater and better production. However, international comparisons show that Slovenia has relatively poorly taken care of its own musical creativity with the prescribed percentages compared to other European countries. And today we have a government bill before us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we proposed an amendment to the law that talked about the proportions of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes, especially between 6 and 22 hours, so that Slovenian music would not only spin at night. In our opinion, it is also right that at least half of the share should be represented by Slovenian music, for the first time, played at most five years ago; thus an opportunity for new authors, creators and performers. In our opinion, we have good creators and performers of all genres in Slovenia. And I'm not going to mention it because everyone probably finds in their genre so many performers and authors that they can listen all day. Sadly, however, these authors and performers are not heard. Many because of the fact that this policy is not going to be in the media landscape, that they almost have to bribe the editors of the music stations if they want to be heard. Although our amendment has not been adopted, we welcome the intention of the Ministry and also of individual coalition parties to give Slovenian music an appropriate seal. However, we regret the fact that the Ministry of Previous Treatment did not have a more thorough discussion with Slovenian authors, creators and performers. We are also concerned about the preparation of the strategy and the new media legislation. Given the lack of response of this government, we probably do not expect law in this mandate. As for some other news coming from this law, the first is about the obligation to formulate rules of comment. We are in the SDS for self-regulatory hate speech, but we are against censorship, and some have already warned. Above all, we can see below the subtitles on national media how commenting is not possible. Instead of self-regulation of the hate speech, it is already in previous censorship procedures. As regards the request for an amendment, we support the Ministry's intention to regulate these provisions in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, and we also expect the other ministries to comply with the Constitutional Court's decisions. As for the supervision of the implementation of the law, we all know that one is the law, and the other is the practice in real life. In short, the law only brings some positive changes, so we will not oppose it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Say hello to everyone again! The main innovations brought by the News of the Media Law are more effective self-regulation of hate speech or offensive speech online, elimination of non-compliance with the Constitution, greater protection of the Slovenian language and greater speed and efficiency of inspection control. The first draft of the law was prepared by the Ministry in the spring of last year, and a broad public debate has taken place since then. The original draft came across a very violent public response. Also in the Desus Group, we drew attention to the provision on the responsibility of editors, and we are pleased that this is otherwise regulated in the proposal we are currently considering. Representatives of the Ministry listened to comments from the professional public and other stakeholders and amended the proposal. A public presentation of opinions has also been made within the Committee on Culture, and we now have a proposal for a law containing compromise solutions. The provision of the new Article 86a, which refers to the proportion of Slovenian music to be broadcast during the daily broadcast time, was of the highest interest. The novel does not introduce quotas, as some misquote. The proportion of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes is already set out in Article 86 of the Media Act, which does not change with the novel. However, the problem has arisen in the application or, rather, in the abuse of this provision. According to the current regulation, at least 20% of Slovenian music and 40% of RTV Slovenia should be on the agenda. However, there have been abuses that many of this share has been broadcast at night, when the media’s obedience and ratings are, of course, significantly lower. That is why there are urgent changes in this area. The bill provides for the placement of Slovenian music in the daily playing time. This will also make Slovenian music available to listeners at a time when people are actually listening to these stations. For most of all, we listen to the radio during the day, while performing various tasks, or when we drive to and from work. Therefore, an amendment was adopted on the committee, which will place the time zone for the performance of the compulsory share of Slovenian music between 6 and 18 hours. With the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, we are further improving this part by ensuring the presentation of Slovenian music during the afternoon between 6 a.m. and 19 p.m., in shares of Slovenian music that are close to all-day quotas, as provided for by the law already in force. In the Desus Group, we believe that a good compromise has been reached with regard to the regulation of the proportion of Slovenian music, so that more Slovenian music can be heard within the most listening time period, which will be evenly distributed throughout the day. We believe that an important step has been taken to protect Slovenian music and thus Slovenian language. At the same time, such a relationship also takes into account the structure of existing music and speech schemes, media programmes and still allows broadcasters of radio and television programmes to freely design their programmes. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law, and we are also pleased that the Ministry has already approached the preparation of a national media strategy that will be the basis for a thorough revision of media legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the Article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 25 January 2016. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Bojana Muršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. It is true, as has already been said in the opening observations, that we all want a new Media Law, because it has been a decade since we had one major change. But today we are talking about two amendments – the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, SMC and Desus to Article 86a and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. We all want Slovenian music to be more accessible at the time when listening is the largest; that is, when we go to work when we come to work, when we go to work, when we go shopping. But now that we are listening to this music, we find that this is not the case. During this time you are spinning most of foreign music, of course this is also conditional on financial means. In terms of this accessibility, according to IPF data, the next volume of Slovenian music is shown between 6 and 20. The hour: Val 202, which plays the most important generator of development and represents Slovenian popular music in the media, has only 28% of Slovenian music. Radio S and Radio Veseljak – 100%. Many times on the road between the Russians and Ljubljana, I listen to Veseljak, because Slovenian music is really 100 percent played there. Then Srak – 94%, Slovenian Gorica – 98%, Fireplace – 96%, Brezje – 56%, Radio Slovenia 1 – 54%; Celje, Ptuj, Prlek, all others, I must say that they play very little of this music. I think that this amendment to create quotas between 6 a.m. and 19 p.m. is entirely on the spot; because it will only raise and strengthen the national entity, preserve and enable the creation of new jobs, and also create public financial effects, as it will remain money in Slovenia and not abroad. However, I believe that there is a lot of interest behind this that we do not use it; but it is right that we create this quota to have Slovenian music between 6 and 19 hours. Many times it is good music; but in the middle of the night this music is very little to listen to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u71	Mag. Bojana Mursich, thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u72	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Novela that was discussed today, particularly in this article 86, is simply a gesture that will stimulate the creativity of Slovenian music space. You know very well that this gesture is about establishing a production loop that must work smoothly in all fields and encouragingly if, of course, we want this creativity, which today has been a lot of talk, and we support it as well. I cannot say that the introduction of the novel will now completely change Slovenia's musical landscape, because it will not really change. The fact is that the share currently 'problematic' reaches almost all radio stations; the exception is that this share will have to be met during the daytime. In this place, music editors, who are not only a defender of some musical quality, need to do their part, but they should be more and more aware of their educational mission, which their editorial work brings. Editors are the ones who should develop the taste of listeners; and not the other way around. This is particularly true for public radio stations, which in my opinion does not mean that private or commercial radio stations can throw it over their shoulder. At this point, I would appeal, perhaps as a reflection on the future, that it would be good for editorials to have a more professionally educated staff who directly address this issue. Here I am thinking mainly of musicologists with a degree in the Faculty of Philosophy, whose employment, as I would call it, lacks some prosperity, and some thought in this direction might give them this job prosperity. As it is said, it is not a matter of radio stations having to play Slovenian music in quotas because they already have to do it today; the only thing is that music will now be heard much better. This was also the purpose when this music was created, and this is also the purpose of this article of the law. As far as the amendment of the United Left is concerned, of course I understand the well-intentioned nature of this amendment, but I regret to raise it mainly in the light that the amendment requires the collection and processing of data, which is simply not appropriate in terms of the information officer. That is why I cannot support him in this respect. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm asking for applications. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u74	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will speak myself in terms of the conceptuality of the whole idea when we are somehow taking a big step back; especially in terms of thinking. I would like to remind you of the period of 70, 80, when there was also a type of music in Yugoslavia, for example, unwanted, even forbidden or even banned — remember the punk band, opportunistic groups — even persecuted. I would like to stress that in the free world, when an individual has freedom, we cannot limit the choice of an individual to what he will listen to with some quotas. Personally, I also want more Slovenian music. I am a patriot in my heart, and I want more Slovenian music, our indigenous music, our performers; but if we think we are going to make the law, we are very wrong. We in Parliament or in the National Assembly are not the ones who, when we introduce certain quotas, will make Slovenian music better, better or that will result in more playing. In my personal opinion, quotas are not the primary solution. In fact, who are we Members of the National Assembly, to forbid people, to legitimize what someone will listen to. I am still for free choice; if anyone wants Slovenian music, has Radio Veseljak, has Radio Fireplace, has a variety of other things. All the radios on the market are free to live on the market. And those who do not listen who do not spin good music will be cut out of the market will not survive in the market. If someone won't listen to foreign music, they'll switch to another radio station. I am this way and I listen to Slovenian music because I like Slovenian music and in this way I support Slovenian performers. So we cannot force people to do what they listen to. Let the man listen to what he likes; but we cannot, with some legislative, such and other initiatives, return to the time before 1991 when they were persecuted, as I have already said, like punk music. These are not good solutions, at least in my personal opinion. However, I agree, let us take other initiatives for Slovenian music performers, allow them to develop to have the opportunity, the incentives. I agree with those, including our identity; but quotas are not the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Young colleague Vrtovec told me, according to the Strika system – this is the Slovenian film that is happening in Prekmurje – twice stated the complete lie that punk as a species was banned in the 1990s. Please, I was then happily dancing to punk songs, they were spinning everywhere, and they were, I think, part of the mainstream, part of the culture that destroyed the then system along with maybe some ideologists, but let's leave it now. We are not talking about the past, nor are we starting ideological themes, as we said. The key objective of the angular system should be to open up space to popularise new, fresh and young, less established music production, for young artists. At the same time, the aim is to improve the socio-economic situation of these young musicians and authors, particularly those who are economically less established. According to the IPF Office, only 3.49 % of the total time played by the phonograms first broadcasted in 2014. Many radio stations meet the quota mainly by turning older and already established tracks. Of course, playing winter green songs is welcome to a certain extent, but a worryingly low percentage of playing new productions. In fact, young creators have no opportunity to present their production. It is therefore crucial that the arrangements so far be complemented with a buffer to play some of the young and less established musicians and authors, as the current proposal threatens to further increase the gap between the few most exposed and commercially successful performers and those new, young, not yet implemented. At the same time, the existing proposal can have a negative impact on the quality and diversity of music, increase the generation gap, worsen the development and overall level of music creation in our country. The legislative and legal service has pointed out that there is no guarantee in this regulation for the performance of quality and variety of music; in particular, what is worst, there is no guarantee for the promotion of young people and, again, I repeat, less established music creators. The obligation to play a quarter of the music played for the first time two years ago would not affect the editorial selection of the music played. We have only tabled our amendment in order not to fill the music of some, the most exposed, the most commercially interesting performers and authors; including the music produced by media owners and designed according to surveys. Let me repeat that it is very difficult to introduce and promote young creators who, as we know, live very hard, come on a day with new products and have very few opportunities to hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Dragan Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u78	President, thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! The novel we are talking about today contains solutions that are positive and necessary and, of course, can be supported. It is true, however, that it does not provide a comprehensive answer on what is most discussed in today's session, and this is the presence of Slovenian music on radio frequencies. It is impossible by law to regulate individual situations and relationships that Slovenian musicians can, however, primarily regulate among themselves. Here I am referring to the Union of Musicians of Slovenia and various collective organisations, which also represent copyright. It is possible to point out that, in addition to the mechanism that promotes the production of Slovenian music, these mandatory quotas also consider promotion funds; however, these funds are also part of some other legislation, not the one we are talking about today. However, there is no question on the ground why such funds, which would encourage the promotion of young, unenforced musicians, do exist; however, this is a systemic solution that they know elsewhere, and there is no reason not to enforce it with us. This issue will certainly need to be considered at the right time and in the right place to put in the right solutions. Speaking of which, I could only point out what I was before, when I was representing the position of the Group of Members, that, although today this paper is addressing the real issues, it is important to point out that this is a small part of the issue that belongs to the media. I would like to point out that about a year ago we had a similar debate in the National Assembly. At that time, it was pointed out that media legislation, primarily the Media Act, needed to be completely recast because the fact that the current law is from another analogue age; we are living in some totally different situations and in some other environment. On this occasion, I would like to remind you once again that a solid analysis of the situation already exists, namely, the Ministry of Culture prepared a survey of the media landscape in Slovenia in 2014. Let me just list what was written here: "The Media Act certainly needs thorough renovations and updates. The main issues and areas concern in particular: the modernisation of the definition of media, which must also cover new media services in line with development, and as essential elements define the mass of communication; the modernisation of the definition of public interest in the media; the renewal of state aid to media in order to achieve the objectives that will correspond to the new definition of public interest in the field of media; the elimination of existing incompatible activities in the media that prevent the use of positive synergies; the proper regulation of programming networks and the redefining of special importance programmes; the redefinition of programme quotas (own production of Slovenian music, Slovenian audiovisual works)" which is partly addressed by the novel we are talking about today. Then, "setting up thematic radio and television programmes; re-establishing the alert for independent journalists and re-establishing the entry into the media register." As far as the Media Act is concerned, thorough renovations are needed. If I say only a specific case where the Law on Media is inconsistent with the Law on Electronic Communications. We have a sad fact that we have been blocked from broadcasting radio frequencies for local radio for almost two years, where there has been a pathostation between the AKOS and the Broadcasting Council. This is just one of the concrete examples of how uncoordinated, uncoordinated and partially outdated legislation has a concrete impact on everyday life, and it also in some ways causes tangible damage, which is measurable, but not only in money. In this sense, it might be interesting if the Minister presented how the Ministry of Culture represents itself or how it has set a time-table, when the deadlines for the national media strategy are adopted; and how long can we hope for the necessary Media Law? This is something that is certainly a major challenge, but also a great emergency. I think we all look forward to a change in this area. As it is said, however, the novel we are talking about today is worth supporting. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me first to ask that the third consideration of the amendment of this Act be carried out at the same meeting, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to thank you for today's discussions, which I have listened to very carefully and will continue to do so. There were also different ideas. If I respond to this latter, as far as the media strategy and other plans are concerned, so are the legislation in the field of the media, these plans are also precisely set out in the normative part of the Government, they were also adopted in the Government for 2016 and also for 2017. Everything is going according to these plans. I am very pleased with this positive response to our public debate on the ground, in various parts of Slovenia, where we have had three public debates so far. Since there has been a lot of talk about quotas here today, I would like to say, although the quota law does not change. I would like to point out that, in the case of quotas, the ministry that implemented this – I think that this law was adopted in 2005, the current quota – was modelled by the French regulation, where French music is defined as music in French and the French music is set at 40%. It is a great nation that has found it necessary to protect its national interest, that is, its language. In the case of Slovenia, however, it is a small country and is, of course, threatened in several cultural areas by foreign influences; what makes it even more justified to protect its cultural creativity and diversity in an appropriate way. On the other hand, the European Union has also set out that cultural diversity must be protected in individual countries. She also acknowledged that this was an important element. Can we leave this to the market? Even these illegal quotas, which have been abused, are said to have actually been transferred to the night when it became inaccessible to the general public. And that means that the market has in some way cancelled here, or we can say that it may have worked very well for even some private interests, perhaps even financial interests. At frequencies, however, it must be said that frequencies are public good, that they are limited and therefore the state, especially the Ministry of Culture, which is obliged to cut down also by means of legal proposals when there is neglect of motherhood, including in the media, whether on the radio or elsewhere, is obliged to regulate this by law. This is a matter of proportionate action and is consistent with the public good and also with the provision of the Constitution, which provides – when it comes to the special right to use public goods, the frequencies are undoubtedly because certain programmes are spreading through these radio frequencies – that it is also necessary to protect motherhood in such a way that these frequencies are shared under special conditions or that the law protects public good or the availability of Slovenian music to reach those people who want to listen to this music. This is about the protection of Slovenian language, domestic music, which is also known by other European or world countries, including: Portugal, Belgium, Croatia, Ireland, Hungary, Estonia, Catalonia, Canada, Australia; each engaged in their own cultural protection in their own way. It is also about the fact that some countries have succeeded in achieving what I would have wanted if this were possible, even without legal regulation, that they are internal arrangements, that the attitude to their own language and to the protection of their own language are easily respected. As regards amendments, the Government or the Ministry of Culture supports the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, this is called SMC, SD and Desus. Unfortunately, it is not possible to support the amendment of the Joint Left Group on the grounds already listed by the Member, that is to say that it is not specified how this data is to be collected at all; and when it comes to the music of performers not exceeding 32 years of age, this means that personal data must be collected. This was also the reason that we had to give up our own desire at the Ministry to try to encourage young creators in this way. However, there are also well-intentioned proposals on the part of the United Left. I believe all these suggestions, so we're all trying to do the same, to make our media space better. Of course, your suggestions, when it comes to strategy, are also welcome. Involvement in public debates or in any other way to reach us will only make us happy with your proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I simply have to respond to the implementation of Mr Vrtovec of the New Slovenia Group, which has challenged quotas as such in its debate, if we are to live in a free world where the law of the market must rule in general. It is quite clear that quotas are simply part of positive discrimination aimed at protecting the public interest. In this case, it is the cultural interest of the public, which means that the public can recognize and recognize the musical landscape of domestic creators. That's all. However, as far as quotas are concerned, Mr Vrtovac could very well know that we also have a women's quota under the so-called "Women's quota" in elections to the National Assembly. And since the President of New Slovenia is the lady and not the President, and is also an honourable Member, I hope that, with regard to the understanding and purpose of the quotas in his deliberations, Mr Wrotec will be much more careful and will think twice about them next time. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u84	As far as quotas are concerned, I am also detained because I believe that this problem could be solved in a different way; and some other countries are also dealing with them differently. In my debate at the committee meeting, I stressed that maybe we should turn this around – those who play more Slovenian music would also have an advantage in obtaining projects on calls, on frequencies and so on. And then it would also be easier because they should prove whether they respect and play Slovenian music or not. Thus, we have made the system very complicated with these quotas. First we have quotas, and then we have hours, and then we have hours, and then we have a percentage of young people, and so on. In short, the system is very complicated, a lot of administration, and I'm just wondering how this is going to be controlled and how this is going to be misused. It seems sad to me, and that is also what Mr Vrtovec stressed that we must prescribe these quotas for Slovenian music at all, because it should be within us, that we live in Slovenia, that we want to support our creators, our culture, our language, our music. But I'm afraid these quotas can lead to people's thoughts – Oh, this percentage of Slovenian music I'm going to be playing, but I don't have to anymore, and then I'm going to be abroad. Maybe I'd play more Slovenian music before, because he thinks it's normal, but he'll do it. So the process can be as reverse as we want it to be. I want Slovenian music in the Slovenian language to develop as much as possible with Slovenian creators, in order to be quality, to be able to choose it as a play and to have this consciousness within us. However, those who are only commercially oriented would not be able to obtain funds from the Ministry of Culture or from invitations, if they were to sell their music on the market or otherwise. As I said, I wish there were more incentive, more positive for our culture, for our music and for our creators. We need a new law because no one was very pleased with this law in the face of opinions. And we have found that we live in different times, in different times of the Internet, under different conditions, and this does not meet the needs of time; therefore we will have to approach the preparation of a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the Law on Media, which is certainly an important part of the culture of the Slovenian people; it was in the past, in the present and will also be in the future. I have many concerns myself when I hear about some quotas in this segment. These quotas, I must admit, bother me a lot, even in elections. Of course, I am pleased that we are talking about this law at all; but I firmly believe that we should be doing this law a little more industriously, according to our own words, especially for the benefit of Slovenian culture. We have been talking about this law for quite some time; I myself have listened to a public debate in this hall, where there have been many who are working for the Slovenian word, Slovenian music. I have many concerns that we often behave as we do to the Slovenian flag, to the Slovenian anthem, to the Slovenian word. We know many times how to open places, but these places have English words. In short, the Slovenians are missing a lot, so I think this law is even more important than we can build much more on this segment. Let me touch Slovenian music myself. If the Slovenians were much more rebellious, they would probably talk about how much foreign music we would listen to. Many times I find it sad to talk about the quota, how much Slovenian music on our frequencies is here many times worrying. In the past, we knew that — those who applied the law as much as they did not go around it — were playing it at night. That's even more worrying. This seems important to me when we talk about this law and when such a law is being prepared, when the law is an important part of Slovenian culture, that we are more rigorous, and that we are not afraid of those who view the Slovenian state only commercially. It seems important to me that Slovenian music, which we have a lot of, is heard to give an opportunity to those young people who are trying to get close to our ears for this Slovenian music. Many times, we remember a musician with a respectful attitude or remember when he leaves when he is no longer among us. At a time when this musician has been creating Slovenian music for decades that we should listen to and listen to in our Slovenia, throughout Europe and around the world, we are talking about some law and we often want to hide it at night when most people don't listen to the radio. On the other hand, we are not united in how much music we listen to during the day. We have many laws in Slovenia; laws that are good but are not respected. That is why it seems important to me in this law that this proportion, when we talk about it, is too small; especially what I said at the outset when we talk about the quota that it is too small. On the other hand, I fear that what will be determined will not be taken into account. This is not about Slovenian music, this is not about Slovenian culture and this is not about the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I must say that this debate is a little sad because it has not brought some serious answers to the problem, and it is even boring at times. Why? It is true that the moment we start talking about quotas, there is a problem or an alarm somewhere. Today we can talk about what quotas we want, how much we want to respect Slovenians or the production of Slovenian music and have some relationship with someone, blah, blah, blah, and here we discuss how good this is, how it will save the world. But the listeners have one thing called a button off-on, and if he doesn't want to hear it, he'll turn it off; but we can have 100 quotas and I don't know what else we can prescribe. But there's another problem I see. That's about right. I want to bring the water from me to the president, and I'll make one trench or pipe, which is about a diameter of 10. Because I want to give him plenty of water — and this Slovenian water, which is clean, healthy, and I don't know what else — I'm going to prescribe that this tube should be 10 centimeters wide instead of 50 centimeters wide to get a lot of water to the president. The only problem is, I don't have a source of water! I don't care how much volume of these pipes I prescribe, but I don't. Unless we said we'd listen to what we've heard. And so I proposed in my amendment that we give quotas very simply, but let us also stimulate production. If there is no production, then there will be nothing on the other hand that we would like to listen to; and let us say that we should give new music, from young people and so on. Sometimes, in the previous system they were under 27 years old, I suggested 29 years, the United Left had already risen to 32 years. That's amazing what we're doing. We are inventing new formulas to save this world, Slovenian language, Slovenian word and Slovenian music, as well as music creators. Good luck! But yesterday, the programming board had to find out that the ministry had proposed something that it had not even seriously tested. And so, thank God, it's the coalition's mind to quickly fix its amendment and reduce it from 70% to 60% and extend the time to get these productions inside, or you understand me because this production is not enough. And in the end, there's gonna be a problem. I can be nice to all Slovenian performers, but in the end they will benefit only old, not young, as some think; they will have nice money and nice pockets will fill them nicely. Slovenian media, which are prescribed and must legally do what is required by the letter of the law, will be less obedient. I hope you are aware of this, because in the end people will choose what they want; and they will listen to commercials. We've already got online software schemes today. I don't even need to listen to the radio anymore. I just turn on what suits me. Minister, today this will be accepted; I hope that you will make a serious analysis at one year's time and that you will find out the effects of this and also present them what you have achieved with this; because it will be necessary. Not because it would be wrong on the part of the Ministry, or to understand that I now condemn you far from it; but that you would suggest an adjustment perhaps mistakenly adopted today. Admit at some point, too, that it is necessary to learn from mistakes; and not headlongly just to satisfy national egos, trees in things that ultimately do not produce good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say that stakeholders in the public debate have found that production is sufficient. I would like to talk about the fact that the proponent of Slovenian culture, so I call the Media Act, certainly encourages awareness of culture. What will happen to quotas will surely be demonstrated by practice. However, I must say that cultural consciousness is not only encouraged by quotas but also by listeners. I'd give a lot of weight here to listen to. And it is this proposal of ours that the coalition amendment allows us to listen to Slovenian music in that part of the day that we can listen to. So it gives us the opportunity and not only the right to turn the button if we don't like it; but it also gives us the opportunity to call and determine what we like, what is quality, what is good, what we want to listen to. I believe that this would also allow all our young musicians to get on the air several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much, chairman. I think that this debate is very sad today in the National Assembly. As my colleague Jana said, we are discussing how much Slovenian music we will ever spin and how and how production is and so on, it is only a sad fact that we Slovenians have our own homeland; but the question of whether we have so much Slovenian consciousness that we can perform Slovenian music and Slovenian production without such law. If you look at other countries, neighbouring countries around us, you'll see that they have similar laws, but their consciousness is large enough not to have as much foreign music as we do. If you only go to Slovenian ski resorts, except on Pohorje, you will hear Croatian music everywhere. If you go to the Austrian ski resort, you'll only hear Austrian music. Only on the Mountain. On the corner, I'm gonna do them an ad, but it's awfully nice to ski because you hear mostly Slovenian music. It is sad that with such a law, radio stations have to determine whether a listener, if you want, should listen to any music. In fact, it is not only here, as a colleague from Desus said, that it is already in the consciousness of the Slovenian nation, since its small legs, at celebrations when Slovenian music is not spinning, but it is turning abroad. It's when kids prepare things when they choose foreign music. If you have Croatian performers instead of Slovenian performers for the new year in Ljubljana, then nothing helps the quota. And we can ask ourselves why such a law is needed, why it is necessary, as we listen to it today, to force listeners to listen to Slovenian music. Production is enough, just like you said. In the public debate, it was said by those who are composers, creators of Slovenian music, that production was sufficient; and this is no reason that that drinking water could not come from Mr Jani to the President, because it is a source. The only question is if we know how to use this resource, if we can produce it in the media, if we can sell it; that's the question. That's enough water. However, obviously in Slovenia we do not appreciate enough Slovenian musicians as well as other creators. Speaking of music now, we're talking about musicians; I don't think we appreciate other creators enough – not film, theatre and so on, so we need so much more legal incentive to put these things in the media. And it's the saddest thing about us not being able to use our resources. Then we can also ask ourselves why our musicians are increasingly creating in English, why not in Slovenian. It's also one of the questions where we screwed things up here. Years ago, as I recall, there was also a law or a case that companies should not have English titles. It's all in English today. And the Slovenian language is threatened by Germanism, Englishism and so on; at the same time, we do not do what we should do in the field of music. Not now with these quotas. The quotas are those which the minister thinks will somehow protect and may bring this Slovenian production to greater renouncing and greater visibility. Those of you who have been to a public debate have heard what the point is, that production is sufficient, but not enough Slovenian consciousness, by law or by law, to produce this matter. At the same time, in a public debate, and also at some other meetings, it was seen that all were for Slovenian music to be played. From those who have radio stations to performers and producers, all of them. But then why isn't that? Something is an economic cause, of course. Then we heard that in a public debate. That someone is convincing us that Slovenians will no longer listen to radio if we are playing Slovenian music, I think this is a pure economic excuse. And to come to the village store, where they spin those ten minutes when you're in the store, just foreign music, in the middle of beautiful Styria, a Slovenian radio that only spins Croatian music, and it's also unacceptable that this is happening to us. And if we teach our children, what is Slovenian language, Slovenian consciousness with such radio stations or with such a turn of foreign music, I don't think we're going to get too far. First, it is necessary to settle matters with young people, teach them Slovenian consciousness, respect the Slovenian language, culture; then these quotas that the Minister has placed in the law that we are adopting today will be unnecessary or no problem will be accepted by a higher percentage of the quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. That's right. We Slovenians don't appreciate each other enough. The problem is in national consciousness, the problem is that we are not confident that we, too, are good, that our creators, cultural creators are good in all areas; and this must also be acknowledged. When I was before what to do with this law, because I was also at that public debate when this law was introduced, the amendment of the new law by the SDS recently seemed to be an agreement that we were all about the need to listen to Slovenian music even in the daytime. Out of caution as to what happens to quotas, because there are many different interests here, some stand for purely commercial interests, but not something else, perhaps even the taste of an editor. I haven't opened that article that could lower the current quota we have yet. We are before we can be afraid if this article were to be opened, that this interest in this law would be even worse, and that we might be able to make changes in one direction or another. I talked to other ministers, say the Italian minister, and I asked him how you protect your language and how you protect your music. And he says, "We don't have a problem, because we don't need quotas, our people are well-informed and will never leave their language at the expense of the English language." Also, today we are talking about only 20% of the quota, and this quota is being used strongly, it is not the smallest volume of Slovenia, but it is becoming the largest volume of Slovenian music; this means that 80% of this music is intended for other foreign languages. Nevertheless, there is such resistance that this quota would be evenly distributed throughout the day. This means that we have problems, problems with our own self-esteem, with our own self-esteem. As long as I am Minister, I can only find that I am impressed with the creativity we experience; also the creativity of our minorities in this area, which we also protect, whose motherhood we also protect at the Ministry of Culture. We are trying to do everything we can to maintain this cultural diversity, which is also valued at the level of the European Union. I also find it sad that sometimes our Cultural and Media Inspectorate has to intervene in certain areas where foreign language is used, but Slovenian language should be used. And that we must also intervene there with various measures and penalties. I hope that this will help children and young people to sing in the Slovenian language as well; because 10 years of pushing Slovenian music during the night certainly bears part of the blame for hearing among young people only foreign singing, not domestic singing. If Member Möderndorfer had previously said that in one year's time we should make an evaluation of what this law would mean for the Slovenian landscape, I can say with certainty that we know what a decade of pressurizing Slovenian music in the nighttime has done between the present youth and what they are listening to. Recently, I listened to Val 202, that the Novomec ensemble, after all these years, wrote the first song in the Slovenian language, is called Lokomotiva. I hope that this song will spin on our radios many times, including with the help of our law, and that it will contribute to making this novel ensemble even more written in Slovenian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. I also adjourn the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u96	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on short-term scholarships. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. There were 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on the calculation of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia from pension and disability insurance under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 52 and 17. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage Items, following a shortened procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 58 votes against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Media in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 25. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 3(1). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 58 votes against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3 under Article 2. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Our amendment adds that a quarter of the music should be composed of artists who have not issued more than two sound carriers in physical or electronic form; or performers who have not on average exceeded the age of 32. Why does this seem important to us? In our view, the key objective of this quota system is to open up space for the presentation and popularisation of new, even less established music production and at the same time to improve the economic and social situation of young creators; those who are commercially less interesting and less established. It is therefore crucial that the regulation so far be complemented by a protector to play some of the young and less established musicians and authors, as the current proposal threatens to increase the gap between a handful of the most established creators, those whom we all know; and most of the younger, commercially less attractive and especially less well-known creators who never get the chance to hear their firstborn at any time on the radio; and so we do not know about them. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that there is no guarantee in this regime for the performance of quality and variety of music. I would also say that there is no guarantee of playing young and unenforced musicians, so I urge you to support this amendment. I think this is a rare opportunity when people who are involved in music and are not one percent that we all know and who are turned by all radio stations as successful can be presented to the Slovenian public. This also encourages the creation of new music production and also improves the socio-economic position of these young artists. Once again, I urge you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u98	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. There were five for them, and there were 49 for them. [[There were five votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the representative of the proposer of the draft law has already proposed, in the context of the debate on the amendments tabled, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 66 were voted against and no one was against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third hearing on the bill on Thursday, 28. 1. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to nine. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Metra Convention. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u99	Dear President, honourable Members, allow me a few more words, a brief explanation of the proposal for a law on ratification of the Metro Convention. In 1875, the Meter Convention was signed by representatives of the world’s most developed, advanced economies in Paris. The Metra Convention is still one of the key international agreements under which all technical harmonisation and international trade are based. Currently, the Convention has 57 full members and 40 associate members. Since June 2003, the Republic of Slovenia has been an associate member. By 2010, the International Bureau of Measurement and Weights had submitted an invitation to enter the Metro Convention to the Republic of Slovenia since the Republic of Slovenia had already participated in 25 key international metrology comparisons and had a large number of published calibration and measurement capacities in the International Weight Measurement Office database. Despite the active participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the Metro Convention as associated members, this status has many shortcomings. By ratifying the Metra Convention, the Republic of Slovenia could make full use of all the options offered by the full members of this membership and thus enable the State to decide on key metrological activities at international level. Of course, there is also a question of costs. The envisaged funds already paid by Slovenia are sufficient for all emerging obligations of the Republic of Slovenia as full members of the Meter Convention. More. Full membership in the Metro Convention provides for savings from the State budget at the annual level following the ratification of around EUR 4 000. In any event, Slovenia, as a full member, will also have the opportunity to occupy one of the cities within the International Bureau of Weights and Measurement. At the same time, Slovenia will also have the possibility of free calibration of national benchmarks at the International Weight and Measurement Office and the right to purchase primary ethalone for mass and portable so-called Josephson Ethalon for electricity voltage, which is of price interest to Slovenia, which does not yet have such an ethalone. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you approve the Meter Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u100	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the basis of a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Elixir Convention on the Establishment of a European Infrastructure for Life and Biological Information. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal now I will not give a word to anyone, the government has made an effort at least three out of four. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the proposal of the Act on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. On 10 June 2011, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee on European Union Affairs adopted the position that the Republic of Slovenia supports the development of a common airspace with the Republic of Moldova. The National Assembly also adopted a position that the Republic of Slovenia supports the granting of the power to open negotiations with the European Commission for the conclusion of a comprehensive aviation agreement with the Republic of Moldova. Following the final negotiations of the European Commission in October 2011, the authorised representatives of all the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Moldova signed the Agreement on the common airspace between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova in Brussels on 26 June 2012. The Agreement ensures the gradual establishment of a common airspace between the European Union and Moldova and enables air transport to be carried out by all European Union air carriers from anywhere in the European Union to any place in Moldova, with the location of an intermediate landing in the territory of European Neighbourhood Policy partners in the Balkan countries and in Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and the Principality of Liechtenstein. The Agreement thus lays down the procedure for the refusal of licences to air carriers, allowing air carriers of the European Union to exercise majority ownership and effective control over air carriers of the Republic of Moldova. The agreement further contains provisions on ensuring a competitive environment, business opportunities, free pricing, customs and taxation and airport user charges. Furthermore, the agreement also provides for the obligation of the Republic of Moldova to ensure, by establishing common airspace, the implementation of the standards laid down in European Union aviation law, namely, that the Republic of Moldova ensure compliance with European Union standards for areas such as security and civil aviation security, air traffic management, environmental protection and consumer protection. The provisions of that Agreement will replace existing bilateral air transport agreements between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Moldova. Since the Republic of Slovenia does not have a bilateral air transport agreement concluded with the Republic of Moldova, the proposed agreement will allow air transport to be carried out in the common area without discrimination by air carriers of the Republic of Slovenia. International airports in the Republic of Slovenia also have more opportunities to establish an air link as part of a separate route for air traffic between the countries to which the provisions of this Agreement will apply. In view of the above, we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a proposal for a law on the ratification of the common airspace agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u102	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. This is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Work in the Mortality of 2006, the Convention of the International Organization of the Law of Number 186. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mrs Martini Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u103	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the ratification of the Maritime Labour Convention is to ensure fairer conditions of competition for shipowners. The Convention brings together the various conventions and recommendations on maritime working standards adopted by the international labour organisation since 1919 and includes minimum labour rights as well as provisions on health conditions for seafarers who are employed or working on board a ship. The Convention has already been ratified by 68 members of the International Labour Organisation, which together make up more than 80% of the world's gross tonnage of ships and of which 21 members of the European Union, among them all EU coastal Member States, with the exception of Portugal, and to date Slovenia. In 2008 the social partners at European Union level signed an agreement on the implementation of the said Convention. In 2009, a Directive on the implementation of the Agreement entered into force on 20 August 2013 was adopted. Its aim is to harmonise EU legislation with the Convention and to ensure the simultaneous and uniform transposition of the Convention standards into the legislation of all Member States of the European Union. The early ratification of the Convention is necessary due to the transposition of the said Directive, which will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by amendments and additions to the Maritime Code, before which the Maritime Labour Convention must be ratified. The proposal for ratification of the Convention has also been addressed and supported by the Economic and Social Council. The Maritime Labour Convention is a single, coherent and modern instrument that brings together a number of other international maritime conventions that the Republic of Slovenia has inherited or has already ratified and implemented accordingly. The Convention regulates the fundamental rights of seafarers and obliges States to adopt rules or measures to ensure its implementation. It consists of three different but related parts, as set out in Articles, Rules and Codes. Articles and rules lay down the fundamental rights and obligations of States and detailed guidelines for the implementation of Articles and Rules are laid down in the Code. The Code clearly distinguishes between binding standards and non-binding guidelines for the country. The rules and codes in the five chapters address the following: minimum requirements for seafarers for working on board a ship, conditions of employment, accommodation, places of leisure, nutrition and food supply, health protection, health care, well-being and social security, and compliance with and enforcement of the provisions of the Convention. By ratifying the Maritime Labour Convention and adopting the planned amendments and supplementing the Maritime Code, a new system will also be established in Slovenia in accordance with relevant international and European maritime law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u104	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u105	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I don't know if you've noticed, but this is news. It's some kind of novelty. We have never had practice in the National Assembly to have such reading points before such conventions. This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask if we can agree on whether this is a practice now. Because all that they've read now, with all due respect, doesn't get me wrong, because I know that you're not guilty, you've been asked to come here and read it, but we all got this material at UDIS, we all could read it, and the parent committee has been looking at it, adopted certain conclusions, and I really don't see any need to bother here with reading the text, because some people are still reading badly and I don't understand you. And I'd rather read it myself. Therefore, I ask you, President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let us skip this torture because it is really nothing like nothing. If I'm the only one who thinks that way, you stay quiet and you agree, I give up, okay, let's have reading spots. I just can't agree that we're going to something that's neither good nor good after we go home. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u106	First. The first paragraph of Article 66 states that at the beginning of the examination of each item of the agenda, the applicant or their representative may submit an additional explanation. That was a complementary explanation. For starters. This supplementary explanation is not intended for Members who are supposed to have read the matter and know exactly what they are voting on, but is intended for the public to know which international conventions these are and what these international conventions contain. A simple principle of transparency, which can be ensured by making at least a few words about what is supposed to be in this explanation. The explanation can be brief, we have a five-minute limit, and most likely we will get something through practice, which will be enough for both of us. So it is not outside the rules of procedure, it is within the rules of procedure. Since the government has been asked to do so, it has now done so. The implementation was three out of four, because the debate lasted a short time, as was most likely envisaged, but the government will also do what the National Assembly requires of it what it must do. However, I think it is right that people find out what those documents are that are above our legislation in the Slovenian legal order. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. I can share with you the need for sometimes ratifications to be spoken of, because, after all, they are not insignificant things. As is not a minor ratification of this Convention by the International Labour Organisation. This Convention is in the interest of Slovenian and foreign seafarers. What brings, and what is important, not least for Slovenian workers who, of course, work in shipowners, is that this convention raises some workers' rights. I think that's something that's crucial. Here we are talking about minimum requirements for seafarers to work on the ship, including minimum age, health capacity for work, skills or qualifications for seafarers to work on the ship, the conclusion of a fair contract of employment on the ship, ensuring that seafarers are paid for their work. A clearly defined working time and rest period, the right to leave, the right to repatriation, etc. In short, a large part of the text of this Convention also meets the standards of accommodation, recreational facilities, nutrition and supply on board ships. In addition, I would like to highlight the news it brings. In fact, for ratification, each country will undertake to take steps to ensure that seafarers have the right to social security, which is no less favourable than that enjoyed by workers on land. Each State must also require that the appellate procedures provided for in the event of an alleged violation of this Convention are provided for on ships flying their flag. It is also very important that, in accordance with this Convention, maritime inspections have greater powers than they have so far in inspections relating to living and working conditions on board ships. In the United Left, we will be happy to support the ratification of this Convention because it is about raising labour rights and, last but not least, the standard of maritime workers. Of course, we want to adopt more similar conventions that raise such standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u108	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is at the confirmation of the official clearance of the transport law on road transport and the correction of the official clearance of the criminal code. Officially purified text and correction of official purified text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The Officially Cleared Text of the Road Transport Act is hereby confirmed. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 74 votes against and no one against. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The correction of the Officially Cleared Text of the Penal Code is confirmed. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has confirmed the correction of the official purified text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for the election to the judicial function of the Supreme Court of Justice at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia at the external department in Novi Gorica. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Valentina Rust to the judicial office of the higher court at the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the external section of Nova Gorica. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Ionica Marflak Trontel, Secretary of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u109	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! At the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the number of judges has decreased since the end of 2013 from 32 to 26 at the end of 2015. However, except for the Novi Gorica external section, where this is necessary because of the cases belonging to this organisational unit and due to the composition of the Senate, they have not been recommitted. In 2014, two judges retired from the External Division of the Administrative Court in Novi Gorica, where three courts were systematised. Therefore, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the President of the Administrative Court, has called for two vacancies; one tender procedure has already been completed, namely, in the autumn 2015, a district judge was appointed to the judicial seat of the higher court in this external section and the other is the case. It should be pointed out that the Administrative Court is a specialised Court of First Instance, which has the status of a higher court, and therefore the judges of that Court are also higher judges. In particular, it is possible for a judge of the Administrative Court, under the explicit provisions of Article 10 of the Law on Administrative Disputes, to be elected who meets the conditions for a higher judge under the Judicial Service Act and who, in addition to the general conditions for election to a judicial office, has at least 10 years of experience in the decision-making of administrative matters or similar legal works. This provision allows for an adequate balance between judges coming to the Administrative Court from other courts and lawyers with work experience from administrative and similar departments. Nine candidates applied for the invitation to tender and none of the candidates were yet a judge. The specific selection process was carried out in several stages, with the gradual elimination of candidates and with the use of multiple methods to identify the knowledge and skills of candidates, by looking into the documentary documentation, this time also through a written examination of professional competence. On the basis of the documentation submitted, candidates had to draw up a decision in the administrative dispute and through oral interviews. The Council of Justice assessed among the candidates notified on the basis of all the material and taking into account the written examination carried out, the oral interview and the opinion of the President of the Administrative Court that Valentina Rustja was the most suitable candidate for the seat of the Court of Justice. Valentina Rustja, born in 1978, started her career in a law firm. Then in 2004 she began to work as an expert at the Economic Department of the District Court in Ljubljana. And for the last 10 years, she's been employed in the Administrative Court. It is a candidate who has the only experience among candidates in resolving administrative disputes. At the time of her employment in the Administrative Court, she gradually extended the areas of professional activity to her own initiative. It thus took note of several administrative areas, in addition to general administrative disputes in the field of taxes, human rights protection, access to information of a public nature, foreigners, education. Its work is at a high professional level, which is also based on the opinions of the two heads of the departments in which it participates. Its independence, accuracy and thoroughness in a case-by-case study shall be excluded. The draft judgments drawn up by the Court are of substantive and linguistic quality, as has also been the case with the Court of Justice in its written examination of professional competence. The Council of Justice thus assessed that Valentina Rustja of all candidates demonstrates the integrated best combination of expertise and work experience and working ability to manage the judicial service in the case-law of the higher court in the Administrative Court, the external department in Novi Gorica. It is therefore proposed to the National Assembly for appointment to that Court of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u110	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. The point that we are considering now has been dealt with several times. We've already highlighted this issue on the Commission's terms of reference. The agreement was that the system would change, that the mandate-voluntary committee would be subject to subject-matter as prescribed, that the criteria would be detailed, that the criteria were adopted by the Council of Justice and that we would be able to choose an appropriate judicial function on the basis of this. It's about judges creating their own reputation, and they're going to create it with their own work, and they're going to be less judges because we have too many. The problem today is multi-layered, the first stage being that we have too many judges who do not judge, but are allocated to other parts. This is precisely the problem of the court in Gorica, because they have allocated judges to other parts, do not manage the judicial function and then cannot form a Senate and have therefore had to sign the court’s seat. In the explanatory memorandum, a large part of the explanation is intended for the division of power between judicial, legislative and enforcement, not how the applicant meets the criteria. And the legislative branch of power is being taught how not to interfere with the judicial branch. It's about the judicial branch of choice, and we just choose. Those who choose it, if they already have criteria and procedures are transparent, then simply attach these criteria to make sure that they have really chosen well, because if it is a good candidate, only this function is supported. We therefore advocate that the number of judges be reduced, that they are professional and that those who have better results are making progress. Now it happens repeatedly that we cannot compare judges who have judged them, who measure them, how much they have done, how many they have abolished or who work in time and so on. This is transparent, and this is the work of every judge. The previous President of the Court of Justice has pointed out that that noble work of a judge is a trial. I don't know why all the judges run away from this trial if it's such a noble job and they want to be assigned to other jobs, such as education, the statistical office and so on. And there's a whole bunch of them at the Justice Department who don't judge. It is the protection of the judicial function that judges, but it does not do anything else and is protected as an official. I expect that in the future, following the agreement of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we will be given such roles as we agreed, saying that these criteria are presented in a way that supports what is stated in the explanatory memorandum only in terms of descriptive terms but not in numbers. Furthermore, I would like to know if a written test has been carried out, if any of those who have checked are qualified and licensed to examine and evaluate and compare each other. Since this has not been respected, we cannot support this in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament, although the judges proposed can be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u112	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to keep going where Dr. Dobovšek's colleague has finished. The case of the candidate's proposal, which we will confirm today as a senior judge in the external section of the so-called Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in Novi Gorica, had a special feature. At several meetings of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we Members, at least part of the Members, somehow had one request to the Council of Justice that these explanations of the people who will judge on behalf of the people should be explained to us, those representatives on behalf of the people, who are the best candidates. These explanations were very dry and very sketchy. I can say that some practice of self-sufficiency continues, not only of the Council of Justice, but of the judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia, where we do not know why one of the candidates was somehow chosen. Are these really meritocratic principles? We wish that, for each of the candidates coming to the Mandate-Election Commission, some of these criteria are justified. These criteria are mostly explained, as I said before, on one side of A4 or on the half side of A4. The explanation of the Council of Justice at this meeting was, somehow, as colleague Dobovšek said that more than one sheet was a teaching of the legislative branch of power, which are our powers. Articles 130 and 131 of the Constitution were explained, which speak of judges being confirmed on the proposal of the Council of Justice in the National Assembly. Let me tell you what we're dealing with here. We wish that the people who come, who will be officials and who will have a mandate, we can say permanent, by the end of their operations, somehow truly the best candidates, to be selected according to criteria that apply at least to part of the public servants. So the criteria according to the elements, the results of the work, the expertise, the scope of the work, the timeliness, the criteria according to the element of autonomy, the creativity and accuracy of the preparation of the work, the criteria according to the element of the reliability of the preparation of the work, i.e. the quality of the cooperation of the organisation of work, the other abilities in relation to the performance of the work. We don't get that now. We get all the time and only a few paragraphs everywhere, why this candidate passed a test in the Council of Justice. Look, this does not lead primarily to some principle of transparency in this country. The problem that arises in this process is very interesting. No judge was a candidate, mainly candidates were professional co-workers in the Administrative Court, mostly in the Administrative Court. So no judge has signed up for this function. And it's this year that we get information that most of the judges were very well evaluated. Just two judges, I think they've been misjudged by 900 judges. Look, that's exactly what this system's closing down again, some self-sufficiency, some relative qualitative criteria. And these qualitative criteria show up during this period when we receive from abroad, in particular from the European Union, from both courts, both from the Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Community a number of decisions that are not very proud of us. First of all, one of the judgments in which the Grand Chamber of the Court in Strasbourg wrote in a pilot judgement is that every individual who comes before a Slovenian court has a great opportunity to be violated by human rights and fundamental freedoms. That is precisely why we want and I must say that there was also a consensus here by the members of the coalition that want these explanations by the Council of Justice to be more detailed, especially on the basis of the criteria I have mentioned. The world of justice insists on its own, it teaches us, and look here, I cannot agree with you. It is not about throwing pollen under the feet, but it is about people who will have a permanent mandate, who will be judged on behalf of this people, to be transparently chosen. And these procedures or at least these explanations are, we can say, very opaque and very sceptical. And something else, interesting as it is that it is the Administrative Court that has, I can say, some ground that most cases in the Administrative Court, i.e. the so-called litigation in the Administrative Court, fall due to that, even when judges complain that they are not elected, precisely because the data for one candidate has been extremely sketchy and untransparent. And a whole series of verdicts are falling. And this is also the case law in the Administrative Court. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this case is that we will not oppose this appointment, confirmation, but will abstain in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u114	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Valentine Rustja to the judicial office of the higher court of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the external section of Nova Gorica. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of two proposals for the appointment of a Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia By letter dated 15 January 2016, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that the term of office of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, should expire on 5 April 2016. For the vacant seat of the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije, where the current Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije, shall be appointed mag. The Bosniak brand. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Ms Nataša Kovac, for an additional explanation of the proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u115	Hello! Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The President of the Republic informed the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia that, in March and April, two vice-governors of the Bank of Slovenia had issued an invitation in October to collect proposals for possible candidates. At the Office of the President, we have received 16 proposals for possible candidates for both functions, which we consider to be a positive fact. We also took note of all the nominations made by all the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly. The President of the Republic has closely led the entire selection process. We interviewed all 16 candidates at the President's Office. This time, too, the President of the Republic consulted with the heads of all parliamentary groups of the National Assembly and Members of the National Communities. This continues the practice if you allow me this assessment, excellent cooperation between the two institutions, because it is not only formal but also substantive consultations. Following a thorough assessment of the professional suitability of the candidates, the President of the Republic has also drawn up his proposal on the basis of the views expressed by the parliamentary groups, both on the basis of support and express opposition to individual candidates. Allow me to mention in this regard the reflection that has been drawn up in the context of the previous candidate procedures in the Office of the President of the Republic and which, on the basis of the last debate at the Committee on Elections of the State, we obviously share with some Members and Members, which we are very pleased to do. This is a debate on the capacity to carry out some kind of informal hearing or hearings of selected candidates for individual high-level public functions, allowing the public to be informed of the potential public at the time of election. We will be pleased to see any further discussions on this option. Now, if you'll excuse me, a few brief words about both candidates. For the vacant seat of the Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, where the current Vice-Governor will be given a term of office of 4. Marca, the President of the Republic proposes mag. Marka Bosnjak, Master of Economic Sciences, who served as a member of the administration of Hypo Alpe-Adria Banka from January 2012 to October 2015, where he was invited by the Management Board of Hypo Banka from Celovac for the purpose of repairing the bank after having found irregularities in the past. Mag. Bosniak immediately took over the entire risk management area. He chaired the Bank's operational risk committee, took care of the introduction of the internal control system. In 2012, he took over a key financial function in the bank. Its task was to significantly reduce the share of the bank's poor portfolio and was fully achieved in 2015. The success of the recovery was fully confirmed by the successful sale of the bank to the new owner in mid-2015. Before that, he's a magician. Bosnjak served as a member of the administration of Sparkasse, which developed from an unknown bank to a medium-sized banking group in the Slovenian market, including the Director of the Internal Audit Service at Volksbank, the People's Bank. Mag. Bosnjak is a tested internal auditor, a state internal auditor, completed the general management programme at Bled Business School and in 2013 and 2014 three times with Feet&Proper Test for a member of the bank's administration and training for a member of the supervisory boards and members of the boards of shareholders. Among other things, he is a member of the American Association of Internal Auditors; he has worked intensively with the Bank of Slovenia and other regulators throughout his banking career. It has concrete and in-depth experience working in banks in leading cities. It combines professional and practical experience from commercial banking with an in-depth knowledge of the operation of the banking system at all. We estimate that by its knowledge of this area it can help to effectively act as a supervisor and to introduce an appropriate regulatory framework for the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia in favour of the stability and development of the Slovenian economy. According to the statement of the Bank of Slovenia, it was not and no supervisory procedure was conducted under the Banking Act. From consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, it was clear that he was right about the mag. Bosniak among all candidates is the most convincing support. The President of the Republic for the post of Vice-Governor of Banka Slovenije, on which the current Vice-Governor’s term of office expires on 5 April 2016, proposes to the National Assembly the appointment of Dr Primož Dolenc, a doctor of economic science, who has since 2013 been employed by the National Bank of Slovenia as Director of the Risk Management Service. It is primarily responsible for implementing the rules and methodologies on risk management with the bank. The Bank of Slovenia's role in the European system and the problems, challenges and opportunities of Slovenian banking is extremely well known. From 2003 to 2013, a researcher and financial advisor at the University of Primorska was also elected as a regular professor and chairman of the Management Board of the Faculty of University Management and an advisor to the Rector of the University for Economic and Financial Affairs. Before that, he was employed at the Banka Vipa and a short time ago at the Intereuropa and the Ministry of Finance. The bibliography of Dr. Primož Dolenca consists of over 400 bibliographic units, of which approximately 50 original scientific articles, 4 scientific monographs, two university textbooks and almost 300 professional articles, all in the field of finance, banking and economics. He visited some prominent foreign universities, including Spain, Scotland and Finland. We estimate that Dr Dolenc, with his knowledge and experience in research work, will have a view to solving the most complex economic problems, knowing the functioning of the economy at micro and macro level, and practical experiences, will successfully perform the proposed function. His professional, managerial and academic experience provides an appropriate combination of knowledge and experience that can help to effectively manage such important institutions as the Bank of Slovenia. According to the statement of the Bank of Slovenia, it was not and no supervisory procedure was conducted under the Banking Act. The views expressed by the members of the groups allow for a reasonable expectation that the candidate will gather the necessary majority support for Members and Members. The two candidates mentioned also briefed you in more detail on their past work. On the basis of all the above, the President of the Republic considered that the two candidates proposed would, in the event of appointment, perform the entrusted function in good faith. The President of the Republic thus proposes to the National Assembly that the Mag. Marka Bosnjak is appointed vice-governor, member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, with a term of office on 4 March 2016 and that Dr Primož Dolenc is appointed vice-governor, member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, with a term of office on 5 April 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u116	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we did not support the re-candidatures of the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia because, in our view, they did not properly work to solve the bank hole, nor did they support our proposals to amend legislation to increase transparency, transparency and also strengthen accountability in the banking system. We also believe that there has been no timely and effective action either against the leading staff in banks that have taken decisions in banking projects or in the attempt to rehabilitate the banking system. The measures were strange, favored the privileges of those who failed. If I only mention the programming of liquidations instead of bankruptcy in both small tycoon banks, at Factor Bank and Probank. Recently, the decision on these two banks has changed again, and now these two banks are connected to the Bank's Claims Management Company or so-called bad banks. On both occasions, the decision to form in cooperation between the Bank of Slovenia and the current government, this last change with the government of Mira Cerar, is impossible to visit, and it is impossible to see that the government agent in both decisions of the Government of the Methods of Dragonja, who was the Secretary of State in the previous government, is called the government of Alenka Bratušek, and is also the Secretary of State in the current Government of Mir Cerar. And Mr Dragonja is closely related to one of the former leaders in one of these two banks. We also believe in the SDS that Mr Dragonja is also involved in the last investigations that took place in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the National Assembly, as well as in Mr Shirtzl's apartment, because these unfounded indications which have come to the public were clearly the reason for these acts. We also believe that Banka Slovenije has recently been working with an investigative commission in the National Assembly investigating a bank hole, but Banka Slovenije has done nothing when the National Investigation Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office have informed the public that the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank has prevented investigators and prosecutors from accessing the files of the New Ljubljana Bank, although the same management of the New Ljubljana Bank has allowed these large-money reviews to the private company Draga Kosa. In order to deliver the documentation of the New Ljubljana Bank to the investigative commission, neither did SDH, even less the government of Mir Cerar, which means that clearing the bank hole and probably banking crime is not in the interest of the Government nor of the Slovenian State Holding and not the Bank of Slovenia. The coalition has recently changed the management of the bad bank and of the Slovenian State holding company, with or without reasons, with at least some of the newly appointed persons directly linked to the creation of the bank hole. So there is little hope that they will solve the problems, but it is much more realistic that they will only deepen them. The decisions on the sale of Adrie Airways and Paloma already show that it is not realistic to expect real action or maximum effects and to seek responsibility for the problems encountered in sales, management, rehabilitation and necessary action. At the same time, the government and the government coalition remain silent and staffed according to their preferences. Also in the talks with the President of the Republic, the coalition formed a very narrow set of suitable candidates, among whom the proposed candidates, mag. Marko Bošnjak and Dr Primož Dolenc, a candidate who has been publicly known to carry with them certain doubts about the irrefutable preliminary work. This time, since the application was large and the President of the Republic has an opportunity to make further proposals, there was a lot of room for a different choice, but the coalition follows its agenda and the President of the Republic follows it. They're so magical now. Bosnjak as Dr. Dolenc is a formal candidate for the President of the Republic. In the Group of Members, we believe that the task of the President of the Republic is not only to find the candidate with the greatest political support, but to propose candidates with the right integrity and references. Otherwise, problems, such as the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Commission, may soon arise, but they can also be complicated at international level, as has recently been the case with the proposed candidates for the European Court of Human Rights. We also consider that it is not best for supervisors to turn into supervisors, such as this case, because in such cases it is difficult or actually unrealistic to expect the best and most necessary solutions and decisions. They do not bring such rotations, nor do they introduce the necessary prior confidence in the Human Resources Council. We will not support the proposed candidates in the SDS Group of Members, in fact we will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u118	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u119	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are deciding on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, to appoint Dr Primož Dolenc and Mag to two Vice-Governors of the Bank of Slovenia. Marco Bosniak. The decision to appoint a vice-governor is now on our bench for the third time by appointing two candidates. Let me remind you here that in previous proceedings, the President of the Republic had a very narrow choice, with few candidates responding to the invitation to tender to perform such a responsible and important function. Is it easier for the President of the Republic to work this time when of the 16 candidates he was forced to issue two of the most suitable, most professional and trustworthy candidates? Only the President can say that. However, I am convinced that he has carefully considered his decision on which two candidates should be appointed to the National Assembly not only from an expert point of view but also from a political point of view. A few candidates have presented themselves to us in our parliamentary group, in fact, I must say that all those who have expressed an interest in presenting themselves have presented themselves. I must also say that our Group of Members has said that, with the exception of the two candidates who have so far been in this position, there is no concern for the others. She also said that a narrower choice of candidates would somehow give them an advantage in electing a president. And we are pleased with the proposal. Each of them has actually presented to us its aspect and view of the current banking situation, the issue of banking issues, and especially the participation of Banka Slovenije, on the one hand, and the ministry, as well as the National Assembly, on the other. Only this cooperation in the past and even today, following the assessment of Members and Members of our Group, has not been satisfactory. It would appear that the very top of the Bank of Slovenia would release its stiffness at some stage. We all live in the same country, we all live and feel the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. And the bank's bailout demanded a dizzying amount of taxpayer's money at the expense of our people. Let me finish. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we trust the election of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and, on our part, both candidates are eligible, so we will also fully support them. However, I expect that the confidence given will justify managing their tasks in a responsible, transparent manner, especially for the benefit of citizens and citizens and not just for the benefit of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u120	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u121	President, thank you very much. Dear Kovac, colleagues and colleagues! Before voting on the proposal of the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, the National Assembly appoints Master Marka Bošnjak and Dr Primož Dolenca to two Vice-Governors of the Bank of Slovenia. It should be noted that a significant number of high-quality candidates and candidates for these cities have been registered in this run. Like my predecessor, we've expressed only doubts about the current two vice-governors, their competence, if you will. Of course, the choice of the President of the Republic was not easy because of all these candidates, but I believe that he has carefully considered his decision on both professional and political sides, and in particular in accordance with the discussions with the leaders of the groups of Members. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have interviewed the proposed candidates, who are undoubtedly experts in the banking field, both with sufficient leadership experience in various banks. They presented a vision of the state of the Slovenian banking system today and in the future and their role or vision in the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, of course if they are elected to this important function, the function of the Vice Governor. Mag. In his presentation, Bosniak stressed, inter alia, the need to strengthen supervision of the banking and financial system and stressed the need for timely response to macroeconomic challenges. He also estimated that Banka Slovenije should play a more recognizable role in the European and banking system and gradually regain greater visibility and confidence in the public. Dr Dolenc thought similarly in his presentation, which also stressed the need for a better dialogue between the Bank of Slovenia, between banks and the economy. He considered that there was too much unilateral guidance and guidance on this route from the Bank of Slovenia, including those that were sometimes overly strict, and too little to listen to the needs and abilities of individual banks, and consequently also to the economy. It is practically possible to agree with the vast majority of the views and arguments put forward by the candidates. Therefore, based on their presentations, our assessment of the suitability of candidates for Vice-Governor posts is positive. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that today's support for the Group of Social Democrats is not to be understood as a bulwark support for all their future actions in this function, but, above all, it must be understood as the expectation and fulfilment of the visions of its operation and the commitments made to us Members and Members. We will support the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect two candidates for the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u122	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the United Left, as we have said many times, we have been looking for a candidate who would meet three criteria: for the first time not to be involved in a story with the past infamous rehabilitation of banks, for the second time to be a candidate or candidate with a strong personal integrity and for the third time to be a candidate or candidate who, with his economic knowledge and with his personal views, would eventually be able and willing to oppose the neoliberal orthodox that currently reigns in the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Here I am not talking about some personal preferences of the governor and vice-governors, but about positions reflected in key documents and key policies of the Bank of Slovenia. After all, we can read in all their documents the defences of the so-called structural reforms of privatisation and the further reduction of labour rights, which are then translated into measures such as the decisions on the recapitalisation of banks that have been in the past, as my predecessors have already said, disputed, into the actions of the removal of small shareholders that we are resolving today, and the end of the imposition of credit claims on banks, which is one of the key credit crunch generators in our country since 2010. Among the 16 candidates who have applied for this function, unfortunately, we have not found a man who would fit in. Nevertheless, the President of the Republic had at least some room for manoeuvre to elicit the best but this task failed. While it must be acknowledged that he has removed two candidates from the list, who are also personally responsible for the overcapitalisation of banks and thus for the increase of public debt, i.e. candidates who have played a significant role in justifying the measures dictated by European officials. As we have seen many times, these measures did not have a basis in the existing European directives. As far as our order is concerned, they are controversial, and that is probably why the current finance minister does not hope to allow the Court of Auditors to examine this story. The candidates elected by the President of the Republic, however, are unconvincing. And here I am pointing out that he did not take advantage of the maneuvering space that he had at his disposal. If we compare them with, say, the names that took place in the 1990s, we see a significant change in the situation. In the 1990s, the functions of governors and vice-governors in Banka Slovenije were held by the then leading macro and monetary economists, first-rank economists. And this was one of the factors why Slovenia has reached the most developed members of the European Union even because of a good monetary policy, due to the meaningful monetary policy that this institution has led, without being indebted abroad and without significant macroeconomic imbalances. Since then, this has changed significantly, and since then, the number of candidates or the profile of the people performing these functions has also changed significantly. While it is true that Slovenia as a member of the euro area does not have an autonomous monetary policy, this does not mean that the vice-governors are some insignificant appliances. The Bank of Slovenia, as we have seen and, as I have already pointed out, has played an important role in the recapitalisation and privatisation of the banks that are continuing. Since mid-2010, Banka Slovenije has been one of the key culprits for continuing and deepening credit crunches in Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia is an obstacle that makes the European Central Bank's expansion monetary policy not known about the economic activities of our companies. The Bank of Slovenia is an obstacle to the development of this country and the people currently running the Bank of Slovenia are responsible for such a policy. The candidates on the list today do not make any promises that this will change, so we will not support them in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u124	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on both proposals for the appointment of Vice-Governors, members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the National Assembly on the Appointment of Vice-Governors and Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Matjaž Germany, the Group of the Social Democrats, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, the Group of the United Left, and Mr Zvonko Lah, the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to this proposal for a commission? No, no, no. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Members and Members of the Parliament shall be given two votes in such a way that each Member shall come to the Chair's table and give his name. It shall be voted on by the word pros or cons on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidates for the Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, shall be appointed if the majority of all Members and Members vote for him or them, that is, 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.20 p.m. and will last until 14.35 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u125	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned session. We are moving on to item 15, which is two proposals for the appointment of a Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. I'll read both records. First of all, the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Dr. Primož Dolenc for Vice-Governor, member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia: The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 26 January 2016. 78 votes were distributed, 78 votes were cast, 5 votes were invalid, 73 votes were valid, 56 votes against, 17 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Primož Dolenc was appointed vice-governor of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. The elected candidate was appointed to the post of Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, at which the current Vice-Governor’s term of office expires on 5 April 2016. In addition, the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Mark Bosnjak for Vice-Governor, member of the Council of Banka Slovenije: The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 26 January 2016. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 votes were cast, 4 votes were invalid, 74 votes were valid, 55 votes in favour, 19 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Marko Bosnjak, by majority of the votes of all Members, is appointed vice-governor, member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The elected candidate was appointed to the post of Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, at which the current Vice-Governor’s term of office expires on 4 March 2016. Vice-Governors, members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia Dr. Dolenc and Mag. I congratulate Mark Bosniak and wish them a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge of the Deputy Ombudsman. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 1, and Article 22 of the Law on the Ombudsman, Mr Jernej Rovšek wrote: 12. 2015 He proposed to the National Assembly that it take place on 29. 2. 2016 terminate prematurely with the post of Deputy Ombudsman for Retirement. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President for your word. Slovenia's legal order, the functioning of the Ombudsman's Institute defines in a certain way, and the established practice points to its true meaning. The Ombudsman has enjoyed stable, high public confidence throughout the years. However, the annual extensive reports on his work indicate that people recognize him as indispensable, often the only, the last tool in the fight against injustice to which the institution's reputation and trust have occurred is not something that can only be achieved through its placement in the legal framework. [[..]] The institution's reputation and trust are built solely by the attitude expressed to people by its employees. In the case of the Ombudsman and Mr Jernej Roovsk, we have the best proof of this. Mr Jernej Rovšek has been acting as deputy in the Office of the Ombudsman since the beginning of the work of the Institute since 1994. Before that, he also served in the Council for the Protection of Human Rights. In the meantime, until his re-election, he served for a short time as Director of the Professional Service and Deputy Secretary-General of the Ombudsman. Therefore, the Ombudsman Vlasta Nussdorfer also expressed her legitimate trust in him when she named him as the father of the institution and the law on the Ombudsman when she proposed to re-appointed him in September 2014. He shared his rich experience with the environment. He was active in international activities where he is valued as a senior expert. Mr Rovšek has, among other things, participated in the establishment and training of the Ombudsman's institutions in many countries at the transition and in South-Eastern Europe. Mr Jernej Rovšek was a regular interlocutor in the discussions of the working bodies when they addressed the various topics that covered the field of human rights, even though they were often those that polarized the political public, he did not avoid them as a deputy. Although it was not always opportunistic, he participated in discussions on the situation of marginal groups, deleted, residents in denationalised apartments, international protection, access to public information, media and hate speech. It has always argued and firmly put itself in the position of protecting human rights. And it was obvious that he was not only doing this in the role of a function he represented, but, above all, in accordance with his control. As a result, he has repeatedly received inappropriate comments from the political public. Nevertheless, it has never been left to political calculation and has always remained a firm advocate of all those whom the powerful legal, political and economic apparatus of the country has driven to the brink of society. Dear Mr. Jernej Rovšek! For your contribution to the establishment of the Ombudsman's Institute and the strengthening of awareness of the importance of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in general, for your irreplaceable contribution to the reputation of the institution you have dedicated to it as an important part of your life, and for your constructive participation in the work of the National Assembly for the Good of All People and People of Slovenia, we offer you sincere gratitude in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you and we wish you well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u127	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Human Rights Ombudsman Act in 15. the article provides that the Ombudsman shall have at least two and a maximum of four deputies. The Deputy shall be appointed at the suggestion of the Ombudsman, the National Assembly. In accordance with 16. The term of office of alternates shall be 6 years. However, they may be re-appointed following the expiry of the term of office. Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, decided to have four deputies in her 6-year term. A year and two months ago, she reiterated her proposal to this place, and the MPs of the National Assembly without the SDS confirmed her proposal, Mr Jernej Rovšk, despite a clear awareness that she would not fulfil the 6-year term of office. It appears that the Deputy Guardian was appointed to this extremely responsible function for only one year in order to meet the conditions for retirement. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, you will recall this, already a year ago, when we decided on his re-election, we did not support Jernej Rovšek as deputy because he did not respond to the Commission's calls for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities to give opinions on human rights violations in areas covered by the Ombudsman's deputy. I have already said on the Mandate-Election Commission last week, when we decided on this discharge, and I would now like to reiterate that we should take a more responsible approach to the decisions of who will be the Deputy Guardian of Human Rights, especially with the knowledge that a person is appointed to such a position in order to carry out his mission, and not just to meet the conditions for retirement, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u129	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision by which Mr Jernej Rovšek will be relieved of his post as Deputy Ombudsman of 29 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Ombudsman, that draft decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour and 1 votes in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the Programme Council of Radio Television of Slovenia, appointed on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. Dr. Vesna Laban is 18. 12. 2015 She forwarded a derogation statement to the National Assembly from the seat of the Member of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia. Pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision is proposed to the National Assembly: It is established that Dr Vesna Laban has resigned from the seat of the Member of the Radiotelevision Programme Council of Slovenia to which she was appointed under the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and is therefore terminated by a member of the Programme Council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia under Article 18, paragraph 4, of the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. I'm guessing the National Assembly has made a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the Miha Kordiš's question on the Government's human resources policy. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the United Left, we propose that a general debate be held yesterday on the Prime Minister's response to our Member, Micha Kordiš, regarding the unacceptable supplements received by some of his ministers. We have a number of reasons for that. The first reason is procedural. In view of the completely unacceptable and unworthy function of the President of the Government, it is for the Member to respond to the question by threatening the actions and to intimidate all other Members. If I quote his statement, "Mr. Kordish, spread an untruth for which you could normally be sued before a court and abuse your privilege of parliamentary immunity." End of quote. As former advisor to the National Assembly, Dr Cerar probably knows that the Member has immunity from prosecution, but not before civil suits, so that we cannot understand this differently than intimidation. My colleague Kordish spoke about Dr Cerar's statement, and I quote: "The work of SMC has upset people who had previously been rich at the expense of the citizens." And he wondered who these people were, how they were rich and why they did not act. But that's the answer you get. So that's the first reason we need to talk about these things. The second reason why this should be discussed concerns the entire party, the former Mir Cerar Party, the current Modern Centre Party. Before the elections, Miro Cerar promised to bring new ethics and morals to Slovenia, the National Assembly, the government. Now he has shown on several occasions that he is not even willing to clear up enough to accept the resignation of the minister, who himself said that he has lost confidence in the public, who himself said that because of the affairs that have accumulated around him, he can no longer perform these functions with credibility. It's obviously a new ethics and morality. Thirdly, this is not just the case of Dusan Marble, or the case of Maja Makovec Brenčič, but it is essentially an affair that shows the systemic irregularity of our academic world, where we have obviously come to a state where the academic elite, with various additions, inflates its salaries, but on the other hand we have – I speak from personal experience and on behalf of its generation – a whole generation of young researchers, assistants, students and so on, who remain outside the door of this institution. So, Miro Cerar, as Prime Minister of the Government, is unable even to condemn this situation, let alone to act. These are three key reasons why we need to talk about his reply yesterday, so I suggest you support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u131	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Ludmila Novak's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mrs Ludmila Novak's question on the resolution of the migration crisis. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 52. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Bojana Dobovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Bojan Dobovška on the purpose of visiting the United States of America and on the assessment of the success of this. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I think it is right to pay particular attention to this subject, because travel through the United States and information technology are important issues that await us in the future and at least four aspects need to be clarified. It's a political aspect first. What was the political purpose of this visit, and why has the reputation of Slovenia declined since then, which has been accelerated in the last week by that telephone conversation? Thus, the political aspect, the reputation of Slovenia in the world and what we have gained in the political field. The second aspect is the economic aspect. What Slovenian companies went there? We didn't get that answer. Which Slovenian companies have done business in America and which American companies will do business in Slovenia – or is it just a matter of privatising public administration, because the only country has money to finance these projects, and then looking for products? Information technology is a third aspect. Here it is important that in Slovenia we have a whole lot of companies dealing with information technology, but contracts, pre-contracts, letters of intent and similarity put those who have concluded these agreements in a privileged position. Then where are the public orders, where is transparency? Where do we have the servers now? Will these servers be with us, or will they be abroad, who will access this information if we know that in the cloud, as it is called, the data can be accessed by both foreign agencies and foreign services? How do we protect this? Will these servers be there to protect them so that we can have access, so-called 7/24, because we already have such servers? Will we take advantage of our capacities? This has Mail, this is what we have in New Town, this is what we have in Nova Gorica, because the dispersion of these is key to security. And then the last segment, and this is the security segment, which we haven't heard anything about. But we know that the key data are today for industrial espionage and the protection of our economy. If we find that in the past we have made a financial hole that we cannot clear and expose, I fear that the future is upside down and into the cloud, and I fear that now the money will go out in the cloud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u133	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejan Židan to the question of the delegation of Violeta Tomić concerning the establishment of technical barriers to agricultural land at the border. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. For rural development, we will spend more than €157 million in agriculture in 2016. We also dream of strengthening rural areas and more self-sustainment, and, on the other hand, we are blocking rural development with a barbed wire. Not only in the area of agriculture, but also in the field of tourism, because tourism is dependent on the river by Kolpa and only Croatia now has access to the river, which will therefore also cause tourism profits to go to the Croatian side. Seven dead animals have been recorded on the hunting link of Slovenia due to wire, one deer and six baskets. Many animals are likely to be damaged by the wire and die somewhere else in severe pain. What is most worrying is how bears, wolves, and lynx will survive through the wire, as the wire has interrupted their usual migration routes. These are endangered species, which they pointed to at the beginning of the fence setting, both Slovenian and Croatian biology. In his reply, the minister told me that there were crossings for wild animals that were supposed to be around 40. I can't imagine how these animals would be directed through the barbed wire at some open passageways, so I'm really interested in what it's going to look like to convince the lynx that it's going through a certain intended hole. As a result of animal damage, the plan B for Slovenia, on behalf of the network, also submitted an application to the inspection services. We're facing lawsuits and damages. In short, everything connected to the wire is wrapped in some kind of mystery, everything is under the mark of secrecy. But people, especially those who are existentially threatened, and people with wires want and deserve answers to the many questions they are asked, so please support my proposal to have a general debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u135	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 62. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Horvat, on the issue of the abuse of customers of used cars with false data on transported kilometres. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. We will, of course, vote in favour of the Ambassador of New Slovenia. With my question, I wanted to encourage Minister Peter Gasperšič to fight this government against the business fraud that happens to citizens and citizens of our country in the purchase of used cars, because many sellers, both Slovenian and other, sell used cars and adjust the counters of transported kilometres. That this is an extremely serious issue because our citizens, i.e. the customers of used cars, are completely unprotected, is also the European directive adopted by the European Parliament last February and when our Commissioner, Mrs Violeta Bulc, among other things, said, quote, "the end of companies that turn miles to used vehicles". The report presented by the International Car Association FIA for 2010 says that if we evaluate these frauds, it is between 5.6 billion and 9.6 billion per year in Europe. We all know that someone once bought a used car and that later it turned out that a mile - long counter was cheating. And this same international car association FIA also says that the dialing device that joins the OBD is On board diagnostics, the interface costs only 150 euros. The total cost of a 30-second intervention is less than one euro per car. The Minister considers that the Regulation on technical inspections of motor vehicles and trailers, which in Article 15 states that the number of kilometres transported per counter must also be identified at the technical inspection. The minister doesn't fully understand, no, he understands, he doesn't want to understand what it is. And we, New Slovenia, are close to people, so we want to protect our people from business fraud. If this government wanted to correct its rating, it would do so immediately, not only when the European Directive says that these matters need to be regulated by 2018 at the latest. And the minister says, "Yeah, we're gonna try to sort this out this year." That's not true. If you go to look at the Government's regulatory work programme, you will find that the Government is not planning to pass the Motor Vehicle Act until July 2017. As I say, my colleague Tonin and I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u137	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 49. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that this decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Andreja Katič to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin regarding the fulfilment of NATO commitments. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u138	We're living in a difficult situation. Security is increasingly important. If it was months ago, the years seemed to be harming every cent for the defence and security sector, these things are changing and changing substantially today. In recent years, however, the defence and security sector has been severely reduced and the defence budget has practically halved. To make no mistake, I do not blame the current Minister, but I have asked the Minister what she will do to increase this defence budget. Today, by voting in favour of this decision to hold a public debate, we have the opportunity to actually help the Minister explain to all of us why it is important that the defence budget rises. She may have had some bad luck within the government because she did not have to or could not convince all government representatives to raise the defence budget as the interior minister did. And one debate in Parliament could further reinforce the arguments why resources for the defence sector need to be increased. Even the Commander-in-Chief notes that we have not yet been as low as we are and that it will be difficult, even with additional means, to establish the level we had years ago. In response, the Minister said that the defence budget would increase once additional money was provided for the operation of the Triglav. All right, everything's great. And she also said that a medium-term defence programme was being prepared. You know how many programs were made at the Ministry of Defence, but the heart of the problem was always that what they wrote on paper, which was written as a program, was not followed by financial resources. The debate offers us a unique opportunity to see if the Minister can convince anyone else why this is important. And yet another important thing would come out. With all the problems the Ministry of Defence has, the Minister still has enough time to deal with HSE and energy, which is very unusual. Instead of dedicating yourself to your own department. And even in such a debate, we would have the opportunity to say why representatives of state companies were meeting in her office at the end of December to discuss HSE. I think it's wise for the minister to have this opportunity to explain, lady.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u139	We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 19 were voted in favour and 47 were present. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the supervision of the implementation of the Regulation on ultra-light aircraft. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Recently, in all the media, there was a story about the bob flight that Mr Boscarol received, which is, I can say, one of the pioneers of ultra-light aviation in the world. The interesting thing at this point comes from the agency, so from the Ministry of Infrastructure, is that people work in this agency, bureaucrats who don't understand ultralight aircraft, don't understand flight safety and somehow prejudge their decisions. In the development of ultra-light aircraft, the owners of these aircraft have also installed additional safety equipment in these ultra-light aircraft, and this may increase the weight of these aircraft by perhaps 10 to 20 kilograms. Now these supervisors are so bureaucratic that they don't leave any flights or exam flights and question the weight of the pilot himself. Let me say that in the aviation world, there is a standard of 70 kilograms, but I don't think any of you have ever come to the airport where they would weigh you and tell you that you have more than 70 kilograms and you can't get on the plane. What am I talking about? I'm talking about aviation safety factors, and I also have in front of me documents on a number of ultra-light aircraft, where this safety factor is a standard 1.85 plus G load minus and plus, where a few tons of safety factor for one such aircraft. And because of two bureaucrats, we have a whole range of ultra-light aircraft that are grounded, they don't have permission to fly. And all the owners of these planes now register in neighbouring countries, where there is no problem, most often in Austria, in the Czech Republic, in Germany. No ultralight aircraft accident has occurred or at least has been identified due to a few kilograms of weight. Another problem that will arise will likely also occur in the future, when our former or current world-class flight champion, Mr. Lenarčič, is likely to have to re-register his plane abroad, and from there, the plane travels with the registration code for the next year that he will be setting up, that is, some years around the world, this plane will have to be somehow set up because of our bureaucratic thinking. I think there's a question in the letter. I believe that this debate is important in the National Assembly, not only for the development of an ultra-light aircraft, but for the primate, whether Slovenia will also fly, or whether it will also affect economic growth, tourism and so on. So it is a very important question, we can say, but it is also a question of bureaucratic thinking, namely, the debirocraticisation of this country in particular. The case of the agency and the operation of the agency just points to one such indelible bureaucratic mindset. Thank you for your support on this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u141	We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 18 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[There were 18 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Mr Franz Breznik's question on the policy of renting agricultural land from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is addressed by the de facto jedan. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I think that word relations, such as self-sustainment, the cultivation of Slovenia and everything else, are the themes that most often open both in coalition and in position. The question I am asking the Minister of Agriculture for the second time, the Minister of Agriculture, who is three mandates, is what is the price policy of the Agricultural Land Fund. I set the example of one land in the municipality of Jurovski dol, where the owner paid 800 euros for 5 hectares of land in 2008, today this rent is a thousand 270 euros. What is this price policy? Is it because of this price policy that Slovenia is growing? Many Slovenian farms are smaller, the average size of Slovenian farm is less than 7 hectares, in Slovenian Gorica even less. There is also plenty of agricultural land, which is not flat, but hilly. And today is the question of what will be the future of Slovenian agriculture. Whether they will live, we can literally say, from artificial food, from subsidies, whether they will become self-sufficient within a certain period of time, some will be rounded wholes and whether we will get some medium farms from those small farms, which will also be economically independent. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, agricultural policies are being pursued by someone, the successor of a party, who essentially expelled all these economically independent farmers after the war, killed, destroyed and made farmers economically dependent, small denarius. Today, this process in agriculture will have to go back the way it once was. We want farms to become economically independent. The price policy of the Agricultural Land Fund is one of the things we can say is the cancer of the wounds of Slovenian agriculture. Slovenian agriculture will not progress, it will not progress, because these farms are not closed because they have insufficient working land and because the vast majority of farmers cannot professionally deal solely with agriculture. I think it's also a topic for all of you that the subject is why in a few years the value of rent can be increased by 40, 50%, that it's a topic that you'll probably be interested in. And the public debate that I have recommended to you is that you support me in this, and I thank you for the vote in this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-26-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u143	We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 18 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[There were 18 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
