ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Janko Weber, Mr Ivan Škodnik, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Peter Wilphan and Mr Ivan Hršak. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Government and the candidate for Minister of Culture of Mr Anton Persak to extend the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. We are moving on to the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. Draft agenda received on Friday 6 May 2016, with reference to the sitting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Primož Hainz, proposes that the agenda of the 19th meeting be extended by 26A, this being with the Proposal for a Minister for Culture. You received your proposal for enlargement on Tuesday, 10. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, has the floor as a proposal for a candidate for minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As you know, on 10 May this year, I sent a written proposal to the National Assembly for a Minister of Culture to propose to Mr Anton Persak for this important function. Since the resignation of the Minister of Culture on 25 April 2016, I have carried out several consultations with the professional and political public, desiring to complete the government team as soon as possible, on a possible successor. Mr Anton Peršak convinced me that he is a well-established cultural expert and has important and long-standing political experience. I am convinced that this is why Mr Peršak will be able to make effective decisions and actions in his work for the good of culture and conduct constructive dialogue with all stakeholders in this area. It is also important that the Ministry of Culture be given full leadership as soon as possible, so I propose that the agenda item entitled The Proposal for a Minister for Culture be placed on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u3	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. I didn't know things were so urgent. The President of the Government thought for a few days before he even submitted a proposal he agreed to to to the National Assembly. However, Mr President of the National Assembly, this proposal to extend the agenda does not meet the business conditions. In fact, if it wishes to decide on the extension of the agenda, it is possible only if the reasons for the meeting have arisen for it, and if the Members have been sent and provided with material which is the basis for the inclusion on the agenda of the sitting. This is stated in Article 63, paragraph 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. In the second paragraph of Article 61, it reads: "The National Assembly may not decide on matters to which the position of the mother labour body has not been taken." Mr President, I now propose that we do not decide on this enlargement of the agenda because the formal conditions for the inclusion of the item in the meeting of the National Assembly are not met. The key reason, however, is that the President of the Government has delayed this proposal, has not proposed in due time, and as a result the working body has not been able to carry out the so-called hearing and submit a report to the Assembly in plenary. As far as I know, the hearing is interrupted and will continue, so that this expansion is essentially impossible to decide, because we do not even know what the decision of the working body will be. Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that, in accordance with the tasks entrusted to the President of the National Assembly by the Rules of Procedure, you find that this proposal to extend the agenda does not meet the business conditions. You are, after all, bound by the provisions, I believe that article 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u5	The main task to be identified in such enlargements is when the reason for enlargement arose. The reason for the enlargement was following the convening of this meeting of the National Assembly. The fact is that such inclusion of such a proposal on the agenda is in line with the entire parliamentary practice that we have known so far. On the other hand, the fact is that even if this agenda is not voted in this way, there is a agenda item on Friday, and these are Mandate-Voluntary matters. So it is only to deal specifically with this point, otherwise, if the proposal is not put to the vote, we will deal with it in mandate-holder matters. It is a fact that I do not deviate from the practices that have been followed in this national assembly. The applicant must have been following this practice for a number of years, and his proposal is in fact contrary to what was usually done in this national assembly. Yeah, that's the basic explanation. The proposal was put on the agenda. He was explained. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Next, there must be a basic finding of the one who holds the meeting or signs the agenda and makes proposals for an extension of the agenda. The proposal clearly does not meet the business conditions. The reason behind the meeting was the error of the President of the Government because he waited and thought about the proposal. That's the first time. Another time. The proposal to extend the agenda does not contain the prescribed ingredients. One fundamental point is that the procedure before the National Assembly is concluded, that is also said in the working body and that a report by the working body is submitted to the agenda item. There is simply no report to the agenda item on the Minister's hearing. It is unusual, however, what you have continued to say is that the appointment of ministers is being considered under the item on the mandate issue. The appointment of ministers in such cases has always been a separate item of the agenda, nor do they belong to the Mandate-Voluntary Commission. This is not the point of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, but the Committee on Culture. What you're interpreting about practice so far, I don't think it has any basis. If you are already referring to the parliamentary practice so far, it would be good to look at it first and see if it is really what you say it is, or if it is not what you say it is. I suggest that you withdraw from the agenda to avoid all complications, even deciding because it does not meet the conditions. However, if the coalition wishes to address this point, it may convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. This is the way out of this, not the point of the Mandate-Volution. This would be the case in normal procedures in the National Assembly. First of all, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the proposed enlargement does not meet the conditions to be included in the decision to extend the agenda at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u7	First, let me repeat what I said. We voted about ministers or so far the National Assembly has voted either on its own or under the MVK. The point, one and the other was really dominant, was always an independent point. In addition, in this case it is not a report which is the basis on which the National Assembly may decide and the report must be prepared by an appropriate working body. In this case, it is an opinion which is helpful to the President of the Government. When and how the Prime Minister submits to the Government, you are not authorized, nor am I authorized to assess, only a political assessment is made. It's not a legal assessment, it's a political assessment. This agenda item may be rejected or confirmed by the National Assembly. Before that, all I said was how the case would be dealt with if there was a rejection. So I think that they are fulfilled in my opinion and in accordance with the current practice of the National Assembly, those conditions, as they were when we set or circulated the agenda of the regular meeting with such a point. However, it is entirely imprudent, even this argument exists, to call for a special extraordinary meeting if the time-limits to be met at this regular meeting are fulfilled, so that it is also possible to vote on the proposal for a candidate for a Minister for Culture at this meeting. Procedural. First of all, Mr Jože Tanko, I hope that it is not the same again, because then you are stalling as well as on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You too could respond more innovatively if you're already asking me for innovation. The basis for extending the agenda is Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly and of both paragraphs and, of course, Article 64 in the sixth paragraph. I'll read it to you again. Article 61 states that the National Assembly may not decide on matters on which the Members have not previously been sent or provided with appropriate material. The second paragraph states that the National Assembly may not decide on matters to which it has not taken the position of the home labour body unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure. There is no problem here, Mr President, that the mother labour body has not taken a position, but that is called a report, an opinion or any other form of act. If we want to decide on the enlargement of the agenda, we should also have a report from the Committee on Culture on this agenda today. That's undeniable. If this is not the case, then you are obliged to conclude that the enlargement point does not meet the conditions for enlargement. It could be a minister, it could be a culture or justice or any other minister. I know, I can see that you already have experience of ignoring the provisions of laws as well as the rules of procedure. But, look, there is something that the President of the National Assembly and the government must also give themselves if they are to uphold the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law, the order by which you must act. Mr President, let me tell you again, the point does not meet the conditions for consideration, for enlargement, because the mother's working body has not taken a position. If it is, then I suggest you share this position of the parent's working body. I propose suspension of the session for 15, 20 minutes and split the position of the parent working body. You can laugh. Okay, that's also one of the ways of ignoring what we've been given in this term. But I suggest you do this. If there is a position, then the conditions for decision-making are met, but if there is no such position, then the condition for the extension of the agenda is not met and the decision is not met. And these parliamentary practices, in order to do so in the way you propose and as you run the National Assembly, are not. She's not here. It's gonna be a win-win.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u9	We've got two more procedurals. I'll answer only part of it. Most of all, I have to ignore the insults. Mr Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor as a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you. Mr President, I think my colleague Tanko is right here. You are the one who in some way interprets the rules of procedure, but you are also the one you have to follow and in some way defend. The reference to parliamentary practice is something that is often done, but we all know that this parliamentary scratch is so slippery. Sometimes it comes in handy, sometimes it doesn't, and it changes. So I think that at this point we should first and foremost take into account what are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. And as we've heard, article 61 is very clear about that. There is no position, the parent working body has not accepted this position, but we have no assurance that it will be accepted by Wednesday, Thursday, Friday or any other day. Even if we put this on the agenda, it can happen when we have a day-to-day item here on Wednesday, which will not have one of the basic elements, the position of the parent working body. And that would be a precedent that is probably unacceptable. The second thing that concerns me in your first answer is that if no enlargement is voted, this will take place at the point of the Mandate-Volution. Above all, it is problematic that you have said nothing but that if the coalition decides that the point will expand, this enlargement will take place. And here we go quite a bit beyond these business arrangements. I support this proposal so that there is simply no vote on the extension by this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u11	As part of the answer, I will only say that the mother's working body has to adopt its opinion within three to seven days. Last Tuesday was filed. You know he has to. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor as a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a 15-minute pause for coordination within the parliamentary group before we decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u13	You can't take a 15-minute break on your agenda. I'm sorry. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Tanko is, as we say, quite often, a doctor of the rules of procedure. He walks around the edge a lot, sometimes he abuses him. I am fortunate that the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission is with me. Every normal new Member who has fallen into the National Assembly has read the Rules of Procedure at least three times. Matthew must have done it at least ten times. The second indent of Article 61 makes it very clear what it says. This Rules of Procedure will have to be fixed definitively, in many indents it is somewhat unclear, but in this indent it is very uniform. Dear colleague Milan, I ask you to pay attention to us at some point. This, that some experienced parliamentarian, like the leader of the Desus Group, now somehow wants to prejudge that this is some matter that the coalition will be talking about, but it shows that this young democracy of ours has had a quarter century little too much freedom in some practices, how to interpret the Rules of Procedure and how to go to the National Assembly. The National Assembly is, as I have said many times before, a minister has already held his head, including a form, and it is high time to take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u15	Peace. I said what I had to say. If my interpretation of the rules of procedure is incorrect, please contact the business committee. The business commission is not in session at this time. At this time, the plenary session of the National Assembly shall be held. It's not funny, but it is. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u16	Dear Mr. President! If that is the case, I propose the suspension of the meeting of the National Assembly for one hour and the urgent reference of the Business Commission. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u17	Before the agenda is set, we will not necessarily refer to the business committee, but we will vote on this proposal for enlargement, which has already been announced. I would understand if we put it before this, but not once we have reached the very point of the decision on this proposal. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. If your statements as to what is ever possible and what is not possible, then you should first limit yourself. In this way it is not possible to extend the agenda as proposed. It does not meet the business conditions. Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states what is the explicit task of the President of the National Assembly, stating that he is concerned that things are proceeding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Also, what you say is not possible to suspend the session, then there are no procedural proposals. They're not possible because the meeting hasn't officially started yet. However, what has been suggested that a suspension may be requested before the decision is taken is set out in the Rules of Procedure. See paragraph 73, and see whether an interruption may be required before making a decision. There is nothing here that says no interruptions are possible. If we were to be more reasonable about these proposals, we would, in accordance with Article 73, first paragraph, interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, set time for reflection and then decide, as it would make sense. This is said to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that the proposal to extend the agenda is rejected for procedural reasons without a decision, this must be done by the President, as some amendments which you say are incompatible with the purpose of the law or do not belong to the right provisions of the law. You have a perfectly identical problem here. I think that violence against the acts of this country that are taking place during this period, during this coalition, is in fact neither necessary nor meaningful. They show everything about nature, and we can say now, in this case, the regime, not the power, but the regime that it carries out over the national assembly and citizens. Mr President, once again, the point does not meet the conditions for hearing, you are obliged to withdraw it yourself because the business conditions are not met and the debate would be closed. Otherwise, if you need any further clarification, it is reasonable to listen to the motions for the suspension of the meeting, to clarify the matter, either at the coalition's consultation, or even better at the Rules of Procedure Commission, as others have clearly seen that this is an important procedural problem. The conditions for consideration are not fulfilled for the extension of the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u19	Two facts. First, the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted by the Business Commission in point 2: "On the basis of the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Presidents may not, on the basis of the request of the Head of the Parliament for consultation in the group before the decision, terminate the work of the National Assembly when it comes to the decision-making of the agenda of the Parliament under Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure." Second fact. At its 12th meeting in 2013, the Minister of Infrastructure was appointed under the mandate-voluntary point. So at least as far as you're concerned, we're on exactly the same track as we were at the beginning. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups whether they want a word. No, no, no. Then I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour and 34 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. According to the meeting’s timing, this meeting will be held on Friday, 20th. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and 27 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the agenda for the 19th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 28. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the function of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mags. Bojana Muršič is 11. 5. 2016 made a written declaration to resign from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: Bojana Muršič 11. 5. 2016 submitted a statement of resignation from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly and, as of today, has ceased to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mag. Mr Bojani Muršič, thank you for the work done by the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we shall continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, it's a matter of questions for the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, and Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, whom I wish to recover as soon as possible. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! The recent disclosure of TTIP Leaks has shown that fears about secret trade investment agreements are not only justified but pose a significantly greater threat than we expected. So far, studies have shown that agreements in Slovenia do not tolerate any economic benefits. The TTIP study showed effects only on the third decimal place and the study commissioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Cet agreement showed a simulated cumulative effect on GDP growth of approximately 0.01% over the next ten years. To put it simply, there will be no positive economic effects. This is also why you probably ordered another study, likely with the expectation that it would show different results. However, the results of these studies are negative. You may know Capald's study, which found that more than half a million jobs would be lost in the European Union, but this is only a narrow economic aspect. It is a fact that there will be a major negative impact on agriculture and there may be major obstacles to the pharmaceutical industry as a result of changes in patent legislation. It probably does not need to be stressed that there are two central sectors in Slovenia. Even more worrying is the arbitration mechanism of the so-called ICS, which will subject state sovereignty to a parallel court, over which multinationals will hold their hands. How harmful such a mechanism is, the case of Phillip Morris, who sued Uruguay for sharpening measures against smoking, testify. The Republic of Slovenia has already received such interbrewa lawsuits in the case of the sale of Pivovarna Union. It is clear from the documents disclosed by the Dutch Greenpeace that the United States is still insisting on lowering food and environment standards a few months before the conclusion of the negotiations. And the fact that it is standard regulations that will directly touch the lives of all of us is probably more than clear, from food standards to social standards and, last but not least, labour and consumer rights. The latest events, particularly the disclosure of the Dutch Greenpeac, have also changed the position of some government representatives. Here we cannot get rid of the feeling that, despite the harm caused by such agreements, the Government will continue to support and continue to decompose all the standards achieved in the last century and, above all, cause damage that is social and environmental with far-reaching consequences. That's why I'm asking you: Do you not find non-transparent procedures unacceptable in the adoption and handling of these documents? Have you personally become acquainted with the content of these agreements? How will you safeguard the interests of citizens and citizens in the areas I mentioned earlier, given that you support the continuation of negotiations? Do you support the idea that citizens and citizens should speak about agreements?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Dr. Vatovec. The negotiation of this trade agreement between the European Union and the United States, if I mention it first, the so-called TTIP, actually triggers a number of concerns and fears that arise both in us and in the other Member States of the European Union, which, for once, can be said to be largely unjustified. Nevertheless, I believe that such extensive and important negotiations must be pursued with all seriousness, attention and responsibility and, of course, with the right degree of transparency. And that's exactly what we're doing. The government at multiple levels is also following the belief that it is very important what quality is, i.e. the substantive withdrawal of these negotiations, and we are therefore working to ensure that negotiations are not accelerated. We think content is more important than speed. As is well known, and let me make this very clear again, Slovenia supports the negotiating process for this trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. We support it conditionally because from the beginning, even the beginning of this government's mandate, we are very clear about our expectations and reservations that we expect them to be respected. We include the following among such key reservations or questions. Let me give you a few. We certainly strongly advocate at least maintaining the existing level of protection in the areas of human health, animals, plants and the environment, as well as maintaining the level of public services. So these standards can't get any worse. Another time. Special treatment in the form of tariff quotas should be provided for sensitive agricultural products. We also assume here that protective mechanisms must be adopted. We are particularly not inclined or opposed to the proposed inclusion of the investment protection mechanism in the agreement, that is to say what you yourself have mentioned. We're very clear here. We also demand a clear and unequivocal reference to the preservation of the precautionary principle in the chapter on regulatory cooperation and, last but not least, we are convinced that this is an agreement of mixed nature, which means that the final version of the agreement must also be voted on by this respected national assembly. So the negotiations are still under way. There's still some time and stages to lead to some result. Until they are concluded, we cannot yet talk about the concrete very clear content. When this content is determined in this way, it will finally be dealt with in Slovenia by the National Assembly. We have similar views, i.e. the view that all these important standards that I have mentioned must be protected, including the agreement between the European Union and Canada called Cet. Let me say that this subject has been dealt with several times in the National Assembly. This month alone has been discussed twice and, as you know, a short presentation of public opinions on this subject is also envisaged. The government supports all of this throughout the process that the process is open, that the discussion is open, of course we are perceptive to every initiative by the National Assembly, the professional public, civil initiatives, civil society and so on. With regard to the recent disclosure of certain documents by the non-governmental organisation Greenpeace, it should be said that it is a matter of publishing working papers prepared in the face of progress in these negotiations. These are by no means definitive texts. It must be understood, however, that part of such negotiations is always held in secret, for each party has some negotiating points which it does not wish to disclose to the other parties. And these negotiating points, which are also recorded in some of these documents, are, of course, sometimes very sharp to cities, but this does not necessarily mean that negotiations will eventually be acceptable or adopted, which would constitute a breach of these standards that I have mentioned. However, let me reiterate that, as soon as possible, we will also require the publication of a complete document. It will be dealt with in the Government, it will also be dealt with in the National Assembly, and in no way should it happen, we are all here at the same wavelength together in order to in any way deteriorate these food and other standards, which I have specifically mentioned earlier. Our imperative is also a sufficient measure of transparency. As far as expert research is concerned, economic assessments vary. Many say that this agreement will bring greater competitiveness to the European Union on a global scale, GDP growth. Slovenia is estimated to be less or less significant, but we must bear in mind that if the whole of Europe goes better, Slovenia, which mostly [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u23	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you. Above all, on the 1st point, as regards responsibility and transparency, this procedure is extremely undemocratic, untransparent at this first stage of the negotiations. First of all, because these documents are practically impossible to access. Members can now consult with them. You didn't answer me if you looked at those documents. I guess not. We have been reported by less than a fifth and, of course, the public is informed mainly by whistleblowers and what the media are capable of covering. That these negotiations are such, it is said to be untransparent, I think it is perfectly clear and, above all, inappropriate. You have claimed that there are numerous concerns and fears that are largely unwarranted. I would like to refer you here, for example, to the very agreement with Canada. This is a precedent. We know the final text, it is legally purified and it points to the mechanisms that are present in such agreements. Slovenia has now requested ratification in the National Assembly, the European Commission opposes this. However, if this breakup occurs, it will still be possible that the interim clause will in some way be the perimeter of these ratifications, so that these agreements will enter into force before parliaments ratify them. Canada and the European Commission also promised that the ICS mechanism would not be included in the final text and then was included in the final edition. I think that these negotiating points that you are exposing and that these are relatively secure agreements, they certainly do not hold back, and the conclusion is that we are likely to draw a short one like Ceta in this case too, so here I would like to explain further: How do you imagine that we will come to the conclusion that these negotiating points that you are exposing will be reached if we have seen in the case of Cheta that they are simply overheard when they are [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Let me finish that sentence that I didn't have before, so the research is different. Some argue that this agreement will be of great benefit to the European Union, while others argue that it is less. That is why the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has decided, and the Government supports this by ordering a new impact study at the conclusion of the negotiations, when specific content is already known, because that study will then be relevant, because it will be able to work very reliably on some of the answers to questions that are now unclear or merely conditional. That's another thing. We know that Slovenia is an exporter to a wider region, including European countries, such as Germany. We all know that if trade cooperation between Europe and the United States, for example in the automotive industry, is strengthened under this agreement, this will be an exceptional incentive and also a benefit for our exporters. I only gave it as an example. However, I agree that it is also important to be very careful here. I wouldn't say it's an undemocratic procedure. It is true that it is partly impractical, because it is the nature of such negotiations that not all content is disclosed in the negotiation process. But Slovenia is constantly demanding, including with other members of the European Union, at least many, that this agreement will be increasingly disclosed. When the negotiation process is completed, I stressed that we will have everything on the table, and that is not the last time the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will also be able to decide and decide definitively. Nowhere will the matter slip out of democratic control and our government will never support that either. We will strive in these negotiations to promote the maintenance of these food standards, all that serves our health, the health of our people, public services, so that things do not get worse for our citizens and citizens. But if there is any threat, of course, we will be very strongly opposed, as we are now, and I believe that we will have support in you, honourable Members, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u27	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u28	The Prime Minister spoke about studies that show greater competitiveness, which will be brought about by these agreements. Here I would mention another study, as these direct economic effects are often mentioned by doing business with other Member States of the European Union. This is a study by the European Foreign Affairs Council, which puts Slovenia last among all Member States, and this bad place is justified by the fact that Slovenia and the US have a similar export structure to EU countries and that Slovenian exports are not compatible with US imports, so that the Slovenian economy will be further burdened by more competitive American exports that will take over the EU market. In addition, it should be stressed that studies that are favoured by TTIP do not show any greater effects in economic growth than I have said before. Of course, we have studies and studies, which in the majority suggest that Slovenia is likely to suffer harm as a result of these agreements, but also the other Member States of the European Union are likely to suffer. The position of the Republic of Slovenia underlines that certain parts of the investment policy are not in the hands of the European Union or the European Commission, which will obviously insist on this – on the temporary validity of these agreements, which means that they will enter into force provisionally before ratification in national parliaments – and will thus simply bypass this problem. So I'm definitely not happy with the answer here. The essence of these agreements, I must also stress this, is not the elimination of customs or trade barriers, which are already relatively small, but the protection of investment and market access at the expense of all the standards we are talking about. Thus, the documents disclosed by Greenpeace only show that the US insists on requirements which are absolutely unacceptable also in terms of conclusions and declarations which this National Assembly has already assessed and, above all, reveals that the European Union negotiating team has not neutralised and probably does not intend to. We are faced with the possibility that Slovenia, as well as other Member States, will go further economically, which will only deepen the problems we have, poverty, unemployment, the destruction of the social state, the drastic reduction in health, nutrition, environmental standards and I think that what we have heard in the response is simply avoiding the real consequences that such agreements can have. I believe that none of us in this Chamber wants to push Slovenia into this position, so it is essential that a general debate be held in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u29	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. President of the Government! The situation in Slovenian agriculture is serious and is getting worse. Crop prices are falling heavily, and some farmers are no longer covered by costs. Let me mention some of the most critical examples: milk, beef and pork, apples. The price of forest-forest ranges has also dropped to 50% due to poor quality due to a pharynx. Natural disasters are increasingly common, droughts, floods, acorns, reptiles, a mass attack by the underlings and, of course, the last snowfall and frost. All of this affects the economic situation of the farmer for the next few decades. At the same time, your government is proposing to adopt a law, such as the latter on the determination of cadastral income, the introduction of tax registers and the false establishment of a state-owned company Slovenski Lesovi, d.o.o., which will hit farmers even more. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: Do you really want to force farmers to abandon their agricultural activities and empty the countryside with all these measures? As a result, self-sustainment will be even worse, and the rural areas will grow even more, and young people will prefer to go to places where they end up too often on the shoulders of the country as recipients of social transfers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u31	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for the question, honourable Mrs Dimic. First of all, let me make it very clear that the measures taken by the Government in the field of agriculture are aimed at preserving and promoting agricultural activities, particularly among young people. So this black picture, which has been taken by a previously respected Member on the other side and you are drawing it now, simply does not hold back. The government is operating precisely in this direction in which we are promoting agriculture and we have therefore taken various measures to support agriculture. For example, at least within the framework of the common agricultural policy for direct agricultural payments for the period 2015-2020, funds of €815 million are foreseen and €1.1 billion under the rural development programme 2014-2020. In this regard, we pay particular attention to the following areas: Self-sustainment measures. We know how important self-sustainment is to Slovenia. The Government encourages it and would like to highlight in particular the recent amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which promotes the purchase of local food by introducing as much as possible environmental costs due to the transport of food and quality schemes as a criterion for food selection. We are aware of the importance of young people in agriculture. The future of our agriculture stands on them, so we pay special attention to them. Therefore, one of the important development needs and priorities of our agriculture is to improve the age structure of agricultural operators. Since 2007, as you know, the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia has successfully implemented the Aid to Young Farmers Action. And this will give more emphasis to young people in the new 2014-2020 programming period, as we are earmarking €60.6 million for this measure. We know that the situation in agricultural markets is also uncertain because of what you have rightly mentioned, natural disasters, acorns and so on, as well as political factors such as the Russian embargo. Here too, the Government is constantly taking measures to mitigate these situations. For example, we have already concluded that the estimated damage caused by the recent cold on permanent crops, vineyards and orchards and crops throughout the country begins. We will now assess the damage that we will then be able to prepare and implement measures to mitigate the effects of damage on the most affected agricultural holdings. As you know, the recovery of the consequences of the acorns has been taking place since 2014, and we are promising additional positive effects because of the new forest management law, because this law foresees precisely the actions such as cutting, harvesting, nursing and protection works, the construction and maintenance of forest infrastructure, which are now being acquired by hill and mountain farmers after the new as contract operators. Thus, hill and mountain farmers will be given the opportunity to create an additional source of income on the farm. With regard to the tax policy measures that you have mentioned, let me stress that one of the basic objectives of the Law on tax clearance of accounts is to ensure equal tax treatment of all taxpayers. Here we also follow the principle of fair and non-discriminatory tax burdens, which is fair. But it is true that there are also certain exceptions. Thus, for example, no farm is obliged to issue invoices which are fixed on a flat-rate basis and which are not included in the value added tax system. In order to achieve equal treatment and fairness of taxation, we are also in the process of adopting the cadastral income law you are mentioning. So we are preparing solutions for this proposal. I would like to stress that we are preparing it together, in a continuous dialogue with experts in the field of agriculture and economics, with representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia. I am convinced that our agricultural policy, as I have already said, is not in any way flawed and that everyone will be listed and also some other measures, which I do not have time to present, have shown that our Government's efforts to discourage Slovenian farmers from leaving farms, but encourage them to actually insist on agricultural activities. The government will continue with this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u33	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u34	Dear Prime Minister, I expected you to be able to provide any final or specific data on the state of agriculture for 2015. We still do not have this information in the National Assembly, and we want to see it, but I anticipated that you would still be able to have such information. Tax certification of accounts for equal treatment and fair taxation. We have said that we want such fair taxation and equal treatment, which will allow our farmers to be competitive, of course, according to Austria's example, because we all compete about the same area. But let me just say that the drop in milk by 30% after the fall of milk quotas has caused an emergency in Slovenian agriculture. This is a downfall which, according to our data, also obtained through the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, takes two farms a week to drum. This means that two farms are failing due to the fall in milk prices after the fall of milk quotas, which is not negligible data and is of course worrying. As for the cadastral income, Mr. President of the Government. In February 2014, we were severely affected by the natural disaster of our stomachs, then by the rise of our tentacles. Experts at the Institute for Forests point out that this will continue for several years. The owners had to cut down practically all the wood and sell it at shamefully low prices. That is why, Mr President of the Government, as Prime Minister, I ask you: How can you allow your financial minister and his subordinates to the new cadastral income law to plan to raise the taxation of these people and the forest so constructed by 500%, as State Secretary Vranicar said a week ago? I've got the data from 14 to 73 euros per acre. How can you even think that? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u35	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. As far as the last part of your supplementary question is concerned, we have no intention of stopping anyone in the government. The government is working together. We have a coalition agreement. As I said, we are in constant cooperation with the agricultural and economic profession, with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and the Farmers' Union, and we are constructively negotiating and looking for common solutions on these matters. This is not a unilateral measure by the Government, but a professional and politically sound measure that will introduce more fair and equal standards in this area. As far as the milk sector is concerned. True, the crisis is severe, I agree, because of the Russian embargo. Slovenia is the EU's 1.3 million-euro aid already envisaged by the European Union in this area, aid to dairy farmers, and has simply complemented it with national funds of 100%. Thus we have already paid €2.7 million to Slovenian breeders and will continue to help all those who have suffered harm in the milk sector in this area. The fruit and vegetables sector is also affected by the Russian embargo. Therefore, Slovenia, together with the EU, has been implementing support measures for farmers since 2014. We are also implementing a withdrawal measure with free distribution to humanitarian organisations and other organisations. Red Cross, Karitas, kindergartens, schools, nursing homes, and so on, fruit and vegetables. So far we have distributed a thousand 817 tonnes of apples worth 716 thousand euros free of charge. The government is active in all these areas. We are aware of the problems you are mentioning and are solving them at the highest possible speed within the framework of public finances and other capabilities. However, as you can see, we are working in all sectors and will continue to preserve our farms in order to keep young people on farms. Like I said, over 60 million is foreseen for this. I am confident that with our cooperation with the expert, with the chamber, with the farmers themselves in the dialogue, we will find the right solutions again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u37	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u38	Dear President, you did not give me a convincing answer as to why the country intends to hit all the farmers, the forest owners, at once, when they were all taken from them, I am also talking about hunting rights, with another 5 times more taxation of forests. You mentioned participation in the adoption of the Cadastrian Income Act, but let me say I don't know why it's necessary. Do we have an emergency situation in the country that all the stakeholders who were and listed them are from the union to the forest owners union and have only had 48 hours to make comments, and this is just over the weekend. I think they're sitting in the finance department right now. Why such time pressure and why, however, when the forest owner does not have any right to hunt, collect, such an enormous increase. That is why I propose a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u39	Mrs Iva Dimic, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The main password of Mir Cerar's party before the elections was the rule of law. You've exposed yourself many times. Just two of your statements, so we can refresh our memory. At institutional level, trust between citizens and the country is created primarily by respect for the rule of law and fundamental social values. That's one. And the other one. We will bring into politics new unladen people with a lot of expertise and with the awareness that Slovenia needs to be raised in a legal and political culture. The introduction of the Legal State, whose co-author you are yourself, states, inter alia, that it goes to the rule of law, if understood as a just and social state, for ideals. In general, the rule of law is that the Constitution and the laws treat all legal entities equally and predictably. The Prime Minister, since you've taken over the post you've been taking, will be two years. I want to know: How has your view of the rule of law changed since you taught about it in college and met with it mainly in a theoretical sense, until today, when your work is of a much more practical nature? As President of the Government, you must make important decisions every day that undoubtedly contribute to the implementation of the rule of law. You are also faced with the implementation of the rule of law in cooperation with other institutions such as the courts, the police and the National Assembly. Is it acceptable, in your opinion, and in accordance with the idea of the rule of law, that the largest government party has the executive branch of power, the President of the Government, the legislative branch of power, the President of the National Assembly and the two ministries associated with the functioning of the rule of law, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice? All of this is in the hands of the biggest government party. Is breaking the laws necessary to sanction or is it enough that you are ours and we will protect your back without consequences? Is it really permissible not to take into account the legal decisions of the courts, especially the highest, this is the Constitution? Is this for the Modern Center Party and you personally acceptable and acceptable? Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: How far do you think we are today, two years after your term of office, from the ideal of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u41	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much for the question, Madam President Bratušek. Indeed, the rule of law is still one of the fundamental tasks of our government, including those of the modern centre, which you find to be the largest government party. Without a quality rule of law, without a country that is fair enough to have well-written laws and which, of course, it also implements, Slovenia cannot prosper. Nor can the economy prosper, because then businesses, entrepreneurs are not protected, cannot prosper any other social subsystem, nor individual citizens, because they are then at risk in their rights. That is why, I have always tried, and I will try, above all, to strengthen this rule of law, which, as you yourself have mentioned, has been neglected or misunderstood in many ways in recent years. This is why our government is particularly stressing, and in the first place, the need to respect the work, competences and decisions of the courts, judicial institutions in general and all other autonomous, independent institutions that make legally relevant decisions. Each must carry out its work within its own framework and appropriate supervision must be established and carried out. It is also necessary to take measures to improve the situation. Let me give you a few. In spite of the poor two years, the transparency of our government in strengthening the institutions of the rule of law together with the National Assembly, i.e. in the framework of the coalition and in all of you, has taken some of the following steps: we have raised the risk of corruption crimes against the economy and official duty, which has also extended the limitation periods, so that now there is enough time for some who have committed such acts in the past to still be held accountable; we have strengthened the effectiveness of prosecution of tax evasion and abuse of internal information; we have replaced the possibility of abuse and abuse of the act and the delay of imprisonment – we know how many people in Slovenia have avoided the imposition of a prison sentence, this will not be possible in the future; we have stepped up the possibility to say domestically, the loopholes in bankruptcy legislation that have prevented the abuse of the obligation of personal bankruptcy – we know how much longer the government has been subjected to the abuse of the law; we have prevented it from doing so. That's what we've done now. You are right, our client, the Party of the Modern Centre as the largest in the government and coalition has two important ministries, for internal affairs and for justice. But that's why she has them, because she's got the highest confidence in the elections and because she's the most prominent party who cares about the rule of law, that citizens will be protected in their rights, in time and in the same way, and now, of course, we're doing our best. I think you've all noticed how much work has been done in the field of police, how much improvement, how much additional funding has been made for this area, and also employment, and not least how the police have succeeded under the leadership of our minister successfully, here once again congratulations, manage last year and the start of this year's refugee problem and also many other security problems. Let me also say that the government also allows favourable conditions, a favourable environment for improving the functioning of the judiciary, and that is why in justice we record increasingly better indicators. For example, the time taken to resolve civil and economic legal matters from 420 days in 2013 was reduced to 230 days in 2016. The time for handling administrative matters has been reduced from 250 days to 150 days this year. We have come to Europe first in this area. The duration of resolution of insolvency cases decreased from 2 years in 2013 to 9 months in 2016. The level of resolution of civil, economic, administrative and other matters has also increased by 5%. Even though people may not report precisely or extensively enough on this, they do not have a sense of progress, but progress is already very noticeable and we will, of course, continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u43	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you for everything you've done, and I congratulate you on the achievements you've listed, but you haven't answered my question. So I'm going to say again: In the last two years, what has changed that you have allowed in your own kind the rejections you have previously strongly rejected? Breaking laws is already a constant of people in your circle. Respect for laws is the basis of the rule of law, and ethical and moral actions are likely to be a step towards the ideal of the rule of law. Why do you allow such deviations, and how will you explain it to people? Why do you allow yours to be governed by different rules than any other? The aim of the rule of law is likely to be that before the law and the constitution we are all equal, that there is no exception if it is ours. I am aware that politicians should come together on this issue and take the lead in doing so, not just figuratively with words. So, Madam President, I ask you: What will we do together and change to finally show people what the rule of law is and finally to move from beautiful words to action?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u45	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u46	Madam Member, I do not understand how you say now that from concrete words we must move on to action. I'm the one who counted your actions. In a year and a half, we've done a lot of things, and I can tell you what else. Let's say your government has promised to hire 30 new prosecutors, our government has hired them. We hired new cops, like I said. And we are doing everything we can to strengthen the judicial institutions to let them work. The results are clear, the statistics show great progress, the backlogs are getting smaller and the efficiency of the work is increasing. And last but not least, social sub-systems have effects. Corruption is falling, the simple economy is growing, and this is also due to some of the improvements that have already been adopted and the improvements that will need to be made even more. But by no means do I consent to the flat-rate claim, as you have given them to yours, you have said yours. Who are mine? You are all Slovenians and Slovenes, all citizens and citizens, I am the Prime Minister of the Government. If you mean the Modern Center Party, I don't know what you were thinking. I don't understand, you say – laws are breaking. Who, tell me who? I know that whenever someone breaks the law to find out about him, to find out that he broke the law, I absolutely demand that he act. Of course, the body responsible must act. I must not interfere in the work of the police, in the work of the courts, such as the Court of Auditors or others. This is done by the competent authorities. And that is why I do not agree that for us, for ours – and once again, I do not know who they would be – different rules apply to others. As President of the Government, I insist that the rules are the same for everyone and also as a lawyer. If infringements, abuses are detected, action must be taken. Of course, the measure must be proportionate to the infringement and the sanction must also be proportionate to the gravity of the infringement. I will insist on this. I will demand that the government, the coalition, insist on this. As long as I am the Prime Minister of the Government, I will continue to take concrete measures that I have outlined and that we can see every day, even by our ministers, being implemented, we will continue to strengthen the rule of law, because, as you well said, this is never enough and we must work for the politicians as an example, and then every citizen with us, because that is the only way we will make that step into a healthier and sustainable society that we are already doing, but we must finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u47	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think it is right that we discuss this in the National Assembly and look together at what things can be improved in this area. I didn't want to expose specific cases, but because you pulled my tongue, I will. Two ministers sitting in your ranks, the inspectorate found out they were breaking the law. Social Work Center, it was a violation of the law, a colleague comes from your kind. The Slovenian state holding company has passed the legal provisions and has appointed supervisors in the Nova Ljubljanska Banka. And we could count it. I think, my fellow Members and colleagues, that it is right, not about specific cases, but, President, you wanted them, so I point them out, but about systemic things that we, as Members ourselves, must decide as officials to respect them, defend them, and ultimately stick to them, and show these people what the rule of law actually means, not only in words.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u49	Mag. Alenka Bratušek will decide on your proposal tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, the esteemed Council of Ministers, the distinguished President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Since 2008, we have also witnessed in Europe a global change in economic and social conditions, which have unfortunately led to the fact that many entities have been able to use some well-intentioned institutions of this society in a way that is not consistent with their purpose. One such instrument is the traineeship, which, through its free execution, meant for many young people in Europe and Slovenia, not the exit to employment, but the entry into that kind of slavery. When this and previous government achieved a significant reduction in unemployment and reversed the trend from job losses to employment, in the past year, this should be stressed, almost consensus in Slovenian policy has come to the decision that we need traineeships, but not free, decent and those that are consistent with their educational and employment objectives. This is to allow young people, in addition to knowledge, competences and, as such, to do not only work for the purpose of gaining experience, but also for employment. As this is an extremely important debate that today concerns most young people entering the labour market, it seems important to me to ask you: What have they been, and will your government's measures to strategically regulate this area, and how do these measures coincide with other government measures to ensure stability in the labour market and to ensure further positive trends that are key to creating a high standard of living in the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u51	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Skoberne. Of course, I agree with you, and it is very strong that young people need to be given conditions for decent work and, of course, the government is working intensively on this. As you know, our government, by decision of 11. 12. 2014 adopted a clear definition that it does not support volunteering in the public sector. It is therefore the Government's view that unpaid traineeships are not acceptable and that it is indeed necessary to provide young people with conditions for decent work. In 2015, the Ministry of Labour prepared an analysis of the implementation of traineeships in the Republic of Slovenia and an action plan on the organisation and implementation of these traineeships, and it informed the Government of course. The Action Plan adopts four types of measures, four sets of measures. In particular, these measures aim at lower regulation of certain professions in the public sector, further facilitating young people's access to job vacancies, the possibility of traineeships in public authorities and the promotion of traineeships with its funding, and in particular the abolition of volunteer training in legislation. For example, in the area of social protection, a proposal for a new law on social protection is now in the procedure. It is expected to be adopted at this regular meeting in May 2016 and proposes to suspend the traineeship as a mandatory condition for accession to the examination. However, it is proposed to reduce the period of traineeships to 6 or 9 months, depending on the type of education. In the field of public administration, the Government has already taken appropriate measures with regard to volunteering, which is no longer available in the state administration. The Ministry of Public Administration has ordered all ministries, government services and administrative units to terminate the conclusion of new voluntary traineeship contracts. And there is also a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Public Servants, which provides for the deletion of the legal basis for volunteering in state bodies and municipalities. We were also active in the field of culture. Two novels, the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Law on Librarianism, which abolished the exercise of volunteer traineeships, have already been adopted. In the judicial professions where we know that volunteering is taking place as part of the preparation for the legal examination, this year we foresee the adoption of a completely new law that will better regulate the training of lawyers after a legal study, especially for those legal professions where there is actually only a need for regulation or the engagement of the State. In the field of health care, there is no free traineeship and let me say that the amendments to the sectoral legislation plan to reduce traineeships, which will also allow young people to enter the labour market faster, which is particularly important. Training in education and education has never been compulsory. Nevertheless, a proposal for a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which provides for the elimination of a vaguely defined relationship between traineeships and professional examinations, has already been put into the legislative process. As a result, it remains a form of quality entry into the profession, but is not a mandatory condition for access to the professional examination. In addition, let me mention that improving the market situation of young people will also be affected by the adoption of comprehensive measures under the Youth Guarantee Implementation Plan 2016-2020 adopted by the Government last Thursday. There will be 9 preventive and 6 other measures aimed at, first, training youth and, secondly, young people on the transition from education to the labour market. Finally, I can find with great satisfaction, for once, that the situation of young people in the labour market has been improving and has been improving further recently. The number of active young people is increasing and the number of unemployed is decreasing. Thus, between January and April 2016, 10 000 207 unemployed young people were employed this year until April. This is 14% more than in the same period last year, which is undoubtedly also a reflection of the relevant government policy in this area. And we will, of course, continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u53	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, President, and thank you very much for your reply, Mr President of the Government. Above all, I must express my satisfaction that this is not just a partial and one-off measure, but that this time we have taken a step forward towards measures that interfere with the system itself that has allowed abuses. However, I would like to point out, and here, of course, I am asking you to complement, the urgency and importance of social dialogue with young people, who, as a vulnerable group, are those who, often in coordination with such systemic measures, which will also apply to the future, do not take as a credible and true partner. This was the last thing that happened to us at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council, when, despite the wishes of young people, they were not invited to express their views on the White Paper, the Retirement and the solutions it brings. My question is, given that we have a number of proposals that solve the problem of free traineeships, which are otherwise regulated and, on the one hand, even allow paid traineeships: Can we expect the Council of the Government for Youth and its expert subcommittees to be asked by the relevant and competent ministers for their opinions? Do you, as Prime Minister of the Government, understand the role of national youth organisations as key to participation in the design of legal solutions, i.e. marriage solutions at the level of young people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u55	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much for this extra initiative, so to speak. I absolutely should say that I have not been aware that young people have been excluded from these meetings, these discussions that you mentioned, and I consider this to be, I would say, at least inappropriate, if not worse. But I need to see why she came to this, if there was any short contact. I think that young people must be, deserve to be involved in all important social debates. Even those who may not be concerned at first minute, but are important to the whole society. On the one hand, we need to include young people in order to be well informed, to raise them as active citizens and to train them, and on the other hand, we must never underestimate them. Sometimes they can have as good or better opinions and positions as we do older ones, so I think that this initiative is very important. The government is already trying here, so I'm a little surprised that young people are always involved in all processes. I myself will undertake to say such situations will not occur when any official or other important youth organisation is excluded from a debate in which it is justified to expect it to participate and to make some contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u57	To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, I thank you for the answers provided. In accordance with Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 18th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, will first answer Mr Ljub Žnidar's question about the activities and actions of the Ministry in attracting foreign investors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u58	Dear President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Member Mr Žnidar. First of all, let me point out that all potential investors are equally important to us, to this government or to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Whether it's domestic or foreign investors. For us, there is no priority list of potential investors. There is no doubt, however, that the promotion of foreign direct investment is one of the priorities of our ministry. As Minister, I think that there are too many times in the public that Slovenia is completely uninteresting for foreign investors, which is not true. Certainly it is not true that we are unsuccessful in attracting foreign direct investment. It should be noted that Slovenia has attracted quite good examples of foreign direct investment to its economic floor. I can point out some of the most resounding in recent times, Palfinger, where after a few years of negotiation it is conveniently resolved and also in the immediate vicinity of the Member's action, two are very successful and receptive cases in Prebold and the new in Žalec. Investors have, among other things, convinced quality labour, quality links with regional markets, quality of life in Slovenia, low cost of setting up a company and high level of investor protection. It could continue to be mentioned, but as we say, every investor is valuable to us, and it is our job to create and ensure all the conditions for investment in the Slovenian economy to be considered by those potential investors who are not yet doing so. This means that we must create a decent and stimulating business environment. However, it will be crucial that we make sure that the maximum burden on the economy is reduced, that there is no additional burden on the economy to remove administrative obstacles, to reduce labour costs and to adopt stricter labour legislation, which will create a more flexible and flexible labour market. And not the last to carry out a tax reform. With the aim of promoting foreign investment, this government adopted the Internationalisation Promotion Programme 2015-2020 last May. This has provided us with guidance for further development of the promotion of foreign direct investment, a clear framework of what investments we want and how we will take action to achieve them. We have identified a dynamic, effective approach to attracting foreign direct investment that is individualised by investors. An upgrade of the support environment was also envisaged to provide the best service for foreign investors. Instead of general promotion, Slovenia is focusing on targeted promotion, i.e. promoting foreign direct investment in specific groups. The general promotion is far less effective than the target and we will promote Slovenia as a research and development centre, a green economy centre and a logistics centre. We are aware that the promotion of our country and all its advantages will only be one of the activities and that promotion must be designed and guided as comprehensively as possible. The Programme for the Identification of Foreign Investors, the promotion of Slovenia through a detailed presentation of its regions and individual areas and the implementation of promotion events around the world. Our final task is to provide the necessary financial incentives that we can focus on helping potential investors to enter the Slovenian market. We anticipate the preparation of a public tender for the award of financial incentives for the first capital entrances of foreign investors, estimated at €6 million for 2016 and 2017, and we are preparing a new law on the promotion of investment with post-investment exemptions. However, all potential investors must be given a clear vision, a programme and a clear investment plan. Our actions are targeted at potential investors who follow sustainable behaviour and behave responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u59	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. A lot of action or, I'd say, some of the opposite steps you've taken are how to attract foreign investors to Slovenia. Slovenia is actually doing a lot of promotion work, but somehow from this protocol work or, I would say, from the promotional work does not come concrete realizations themselves. This means that we are preparing too few concrete measures and steps in Slovenia that would actually attract foreign investors. By means of protocol visits to the government abroad, there is always an economic part of the competition. I can assess so much over the heat that all these discussions, all of them from an economic point of view, are always successful, but then I see somehow a shortage or that that success breaks down to a phase of concrete arrangements. Of course, that is not always the case, and there is also some positive concrete matter that is then actually implemented, but in most cases there is no real operational transition from that protocol level to the operational implementation level. What are the plans or additional support for this percentage of success here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u61	Minister of Economy, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thanks for the extra question. I have to say, we can split these protocol visits into two parts. Economic delegations can be more successful in areas where the importance of the joint economic performance and the government is greater, more simply said, in the context of the European Union, where this assistance from the state, government, ministries is not so important. Furthermore, I must say that we want to upgrade a purely concrete incentive system for all investors. So we don't want to share things in foreign and domestic terms, but in everyone who wants to invest in our environment. What is a key moment for investing in Slovenia is a well-developed infrastructure, an educated workforce, a proper working and living environment, and further encouragement from a purely tax perspective. In this law that we are preparing, we want to create a law to promote investment with some instruments that will allow all investors to be relieved during the post-investment period. This is a relief that will not have an impact on the existing public financial situation, but because it is a new investment, we will give that part of the incentives in the period following this, on profit tax relief and on the example of our four problem areas, where we already have a relief for all investors in this context today, to refonify the difference between gross and net earnings for all employees, but in a much larger connection with the number of employees. It is said that we want to bring this matter together in a greater sense and encourage further new employment. Finally, I must say that, despite all the foreign-owned companies that have come into existence, this must be said, including from the privatisation address, not just from greenfield investments, to create more than 20% of GDP. Our goal is to encourage these investments. I must also say that we have several hot irons in various areas in Slovenia in the fire. I believe that this is one additional key issue that we will be able to make one economic breakthrough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u63	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will now answer Mr Franz Breznik's question regarding the selection of Mrs Špela Kučan as economic adviser in Geneva.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u64	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Commissioner Franz Breznik, thank you for the question. I am pleased that I have been given this opportunity to explain in detail the procedure which is so very problematic in the public eye, irrespective of the fact that it has been carried out perfectly legally. Mr Breznik, first of all, let me say that you probably know that Slovenia is also a democratic country. Even the Slovenian Constitution commands us to do so. It is right, therefore, that we all know together that we live in a country where everyone has the right to compete for vacancies. Children are also relatives or friends of politicians, economists, Members, current and former. Finally, it may not be very pleasant for you at some point if you are not able to be selected for a certain job just because you are an MEP today, if this will once decisively affect the assessment that you are unfit to perform a particular job, regardless of your experience and expertise. The lady mentioned by you had every right to apply as a candidate for a job in the economic field at the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the United Nations Office and other international organisations in Geneva. The same right as the other two candidates, who also applied for this job. The candidate selected shall fulfil all the conditions required by the publication of the job. The lady who was elected is an educated university ethnologist and cultural anthropologist and Spanish professor. He has more than 16 years of work experience. For the past 10 years, she has been employed by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, where she worked in the economic field. All of this is spent more than was required upon publication of the job. At least two years of work experience were required. Mr Breznik, there is no doubt that you do not know what kind of job this is actually, and it is, therefore, at least inappropriate for this job to be presented in public as one of the highest-ranking and best-paid posts in diplomacy. Madam, who has been elected, will indeed carry out the work of a diplomat in the economic field within the diplomatic office. However, only temporarily will she have the right only to use a diplomatic title, she will not be appointed to a diplomatic title. It will work in the field of economic diplomacy as an economic adviser. As an expert, she will be responsible for the enforcement and promotion of the interests of the Slovenian economy abroad. Let me also remind you that the job you are exhibiting has been unoccupied for a long time. The candidate who would be willing to work in this job decided to seek an internal publication of a free diplomatic job first. This is obviously the most problematic question on the question. As long as the internal publication and immediately thereafter the publication of the internal character would not find the right candidate for this job, the search would continue with the publication of the invitation to tender. Thank you for this question, once again, and I believe that we will be able to explain a few things further. The workplace was empty from 1. 1. 2013 The selected candidate was elected within the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and has been employed here for 10 years and is only temporarily relocated. It held a vacant post under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and decided to follow the rules governing the selection of candidates for such posts after systemisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u65	Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Rest! I, too, thank you for giving your argument somehow. I must admit that I thank you for seeing that this is a broader issue. I think in your opinion, you've said everything, I don't really need long words. In your opinion, the department in Geneva, because it's the World Trade, the trade, you send a Spanish professor and someone who's an anthropologist. It is now clear to me why the economy in Slovenia has no support from the Ministry of Economy. Do you realize what the profession of anthropologist, professor of Spanish means, what someone in the process of education fulfils, what competences and knowledge and what function he now leaves for, respected minister? Look, I'm not reading a policy to hire my child who's capable of a job that has a suitable education that has experience. Last but not least in Geneva she will not speak Spanish, she will need the highest level of English. Have you looked at the level of the English language a respected candidate meets? Continuation, C1. So the question is, are they the best candidates? This is a question of meritocratic principles; it is a question of the seriousness of institutions representing Slovenian interests. Do you have any idea what she's gonna do with this department she's gonna be working on? It's about solving trade problems. So trade agreements, monitoring, revision of trade agreements. Have you ever heard of the profession of lawyer in charge of, say, international trade, economists who are specialists in international trade, lawyers who know these international treaties, people who are specialists, say, for international relations? Do you know how many we have in Slovenia? That's exactly why we looked at why Špela Kučan could come to town with [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u67	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u68	Mr Member, I would like to add three more things. I am pleased to hear your comments on the economic situation in the western and northern parts of Europe. And many of these suggestions that you have made, I have also taken into account at work, but you know as well as I do that in this environment people who are educated in one area can do other things. And it's in this Western capitalist system that this bang is constant. The candidate has been educated in more than one area, has worked since 2006, I think she works in our ministry on this economic work, and meets all the conditions. But a few more details from the process itself. Two registered candidates were included in the narrowest selection. The candidate, who was best rated in the chosen process, eventually decided on her own for a second job, and the lady mentioned by you was evaluated as an appropriate candidate and was therefore chosen as a candidate with the best rating for en route to Geneva. Another time. The selected candidate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also successfully carried out a personality test, the preparation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, trained in the field of diplomatic examination, took another language test from the English language at a higher level and defended the guidelines for work. Once again, I say that we have done the whole process legally and that, in the framework of all these candidates we have, we have finally filled an important job for the economy at the headquarters of the World Trade Organisation after three years. And once again, I would like you to take into account the content of knowledge and education in the selection of candidates, as you said, but not to question the name and surname of a candidate. I am deeply convinced that the candidate will do this work conscientiously and well for the benefit of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u69	Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr President, that is exactly what I demand. I think this debate would be welcome. For the first time, I repeat, I do not question the name and surname, but I question it when I see that a person who, in the opinion of the Minister, is sent to such an important function, that is to say, is spreading this argument according to him, as if in a Maribor health care centre, a specialist in general medicine, I reported as an engineer and a colleague who may be a builder, and I would say that only these two have unfortunately reported because he makes one aptitude exam and everything else, but a little better knowledge of Slovenian language, he will be able to perform the exam. Look, you've ever looked at the candidates the other members have in Geneva. Let them give you a schedule for everyone else who's in business. We, no wonder we lose most of the things in international treaties, that we lose if we have people in cities other than lawyers, not economists, not specialists in international relations. And this is a basic education for such a function, a respected minister. That's it, and when you see us sending a Spanish-language professor and an anthropologist there, people of God, that's funny today. Then it comes out, and yes, who could have gotten it, and then we get a solution out of it: Špela Kučan. That's the problem, Your Honor. I do not give you a name and surname, and also all your colleagues and colleagues, I will never question whether you or your relatives, if your next of kin has knowledge in the field, is a competent person, I am not interested in the name and surname, but from this we can say somehow incompetence, so also total, we can say, counter-education of what this representative is supposed to represent. And this is, look at the unserious performance of the work, but above all look at such important functions, Slovenia is a member of the European Union, a member of the United Nations in 1992, see, we need serious candidates if we want to play some serious games or serious business in international trade as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take another look at this. I also ask you, Mr President and my fellow Members, to discuss this debate also on a complete human resources policy. I think we have a whole bunch of people like that. And if the Spanish language professors, if there are more of them at the Ministry of Economics on such important topics, forgive me, I have nothing against them, but look, everyone should work and perform tasks in relation to what he has done with some basic education. But here, Minister, I don't think you have an argument, you really have no argument. It's sad. I support you in some matters, you know, we have very similar thoughts, and here – who gave you this candidate somehow? You could wait, a new invitation to tender could be made and found by some serious, competent candidate or candidate. I therefore ask once again for support and to hold a public debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u71	Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister of the Interior will be a magician. Vesna Györkös Žnidar answered Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question regarding illegal migrants after the closure of the state border between Macedonia and Greece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! As far as migration is concerned, we know that the situation is relatively manageable at this point, but it is only right that we keep reminding ourselves that the matter is not yet finished and that the Western Balkan route can be reopened at any time. As you know, on 6 March 2016 the Republic of Slovenia left the last organised train with migrants, until the closure of the Western Balkan route in Macedonia for several reasons. If I mention the most important, they are certainly among the most important cascade effects of the measures at our border, which had an effect down the Western Balkan route. It is also necessary to mention the operational arrangements in the region in which Slovenia actively participated both at political and operational level and, of course, the Prime Minister's initiative, i.e. Slovenia's initiative to close the border in Macedonia, which led to the problem being resolved as close as possible to the source, since it is ultimately the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. So from 7 March 2016 to 14 May, Slovenian police detected and received 112 foreigners who illegally crossed the external Schengen border. Albania's top citizens were: 26, Kosovo 15, Iraq 15, Syria 9, Algeria 8, Afghanistan 7, Morocco 7, Sri Lanka 3, Iran 3, Pakistan 3. Foreigners who crossed the state border after the closure of this Western Balkan route, of course, we announced to the Croatian border authorities, following an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the extradition and takeover of persons. By 14 May 2016, we were able to return 147 foreigners to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of that agreement. We also successfully turned 11 foreigners across the airport of Jožet Pučnik Ljubljana. Following the closure of the border between Macedonia and Greece, 198 persons filed an application for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia, 88 of whom voluntarily left the asylum home or its exposures. So that the Republic of Slovenia is also preparing for a possible substantial increase in illegal border crossings, I think there is no secret that the protection of the state border by our police is a permanent task of the police, which is why Slovenia regularly monitors developments at home and abroad, plans its actions in accordance with the threat assessment and on the basis of the actual situation. Of course, as I originally pointed out, it is not possible to rule out the re-opening of the Western Balkan route. We also know that there are thousands of people entering Macedonia at this point in time. I also assess that Greece has yet to detect definitively determined measures, in particular as regards the relocation of these people into appropriate capacity across the country. The number of arrivals to the Greek islands is low, but arrivals to the islands are still continuing, so it is of paramount importance that the EU-Turkey agreement is effective at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u73	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much. In this refugee problem, or in the case of illegal migrants, it is likely that the problem is that a person receives an answer after a month. On the other hand, it's true that you get a little bit more, what can I say, up-to-date information. So I'm kind of glad that you, President, have responded to the government and the presence of ministers as you are. But as for the secretary's answer, look, since we're never going to get back together, it sucks, and that doesn't make any sense. So, speaking backwards, by September last year, it's irrelevant, that books, records and history will one day judge about it, who gave something, what initiative, whether it was the current Prime Minister Cerar or it was Janez Janša, but it's a document, it can't be hidden, as it can't hide many other documents, let's say from the era of self-assurance. So let's take a look ahead. I am pleased that you say you are successfully returning them to Croatia and also to third countries through the airport, but there is still one fundamental question. All those who leave Slovenia or our home with exhibitions know that they will be returned. So showing some low numbers that are currently in the territory of Slovenia can be a very misleading matter. In fact, everything that leaves the country and is registered in our asylum home and outposts is expected to be returned. Above all, I would like to say something about how we are preparing for what we are preparing for, when something will give up again in Greece, and what is the latest information that a whole bunch of children have gone from asylum home to over 100 minors. Maybe he's trying something this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u75	Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much, President. As far as these arbitrary abandonments of asylum homes are concerned, we know that in the past there has been a fact that, even in the past, they have left the asylum home, which confirms that Slovenia is a transit state and also a very low number of applications for international protection, so given the overall volume of migration that has gone through Slovenia, it confirms that Slovenia is still, in some ways, a predominantly transit state, and therefore is also a low number of applications for international protection. Of course, we also pay particular attention to the most vulnerable categories, including children, as part of these processes that we conduct. We have also explained this very fully in recent days. Well, the fact is that these children, or the right ones, are especially these young people who travel alone. We know that children are, after all, mostly connected within these classical families, while adolescents, also due to the possible specific situation in these countries of origin from which they come, finally decide to travel to target countries, i.e. to countries where they have relatives, so that these movements actually occur for some systemic reasons and perhaps the problem is more European than Slovenia. In this respect, Slovenia must pay particular attention to these vulnerable groups in all the processes it conducts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u77	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In two minutes, it's probably almost impossible to answer, at least as I wish. There is still an open question of how the Republic of Slovenia works differently to those people we accept from the so-called quotas from Italy or Greece. This is also an interesting topic, we are the only country of former socialism that we welcome. In short, a number of questions remain open because the topic is important because the topic is reflected in the public, and because probably there is not enough time for an in-depth discussion in the context of the question, I propose a debate on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u79	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to ask the question pardon. [[...]] First of all, she'll be Minister of the Interior. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar answered the question mag. Branca Grims' action against masked migrant advocates.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr President, again. I don't think it's necessary to explain in more detail what the Law on Public Assembly stipulates. I think that Mr Grims is very familiar with this area, in particular in the work relating to the fact that meeting participants must not bring weapons, explosives, pyrotechnic articles, dangerous objects or other dangerous substances to meetings and, of course, disturb the order of the meeting or the event. In the present case, therefore, as regards the event you are asking me about, the tactics and methods of functioning of police units have been adapted, taking into account all the principles of police action, as in all cases police activities. When protecting public meetings on Kotnikov Street in Ljubljana on 27 February this year, police officers on the spot did not detect violations related to the Public Collections Act, as well as to the Weapons Act, which would directly endanger police procedures or the safety of other persons in the given situation. All police actions have been carried out in accordance with the rules of the profession, the principle of proportionality and the primary focus on ensuring the safety of participants. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the police, after the completion of the protection of the public meeting, have initiated the collection of notices and activities to prove possible offences or offences. In order to prove violations, there is no need for direct on-the-spot detection, and the police have also informed all participants in undeclared meetings that the activities are being recorded and that the competent criminal authority may also subsequently carry out appropriate procedures on the basis of the above material and other evidence. In this regard, the identity of the person who is to bring weapons to the meeting has so far been established in an orderly object or umbrella. A review of this subject was also carried out. It has been found that it is actually an umbrella that has a Japanese sword handle and that the police will not act against this person. In the case of other suspected offences, however, police officers continue to collect notices and, in the case of identified identity of individuals, will also carry out criminal proceedings against these persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Somewhere, there is one limit to democracy that no one should have to go through — violence or a direct willingness to commit violence. This is exactly what happened on Kotnikov, unfortunately, where self-proclaimed migrants' advocates have already fundamentally set up an opposition that would have been called in the police jargon "for crowd control". They had rods with them, formally they were flag sticks, and in fact they were obviously designed for something else. The law, of course, crystal clearly states that any object that is designed to be used for an attack cannot be brought to a public event. In addition, we looked at this at the meeting of my commission at the time, and then we showed you a whole bunch of photos, they were also publicly available, there is no secret, and on some of them it appears that individuals had not only what was asked about the handle, but another very interesting thing, at least some tonfa or some of them would surely have found themselves among those objects that were obvious in the photographs. As long as you lost them, they still know up at my secretary's office, and they've been posted on the Internet, so it's probably not a problem. Why is this so important? First of all, before marriage, we all have to be the same. And this confrontation that was there was a confrontation that told everything about Slovenia in 2016. On the one hand, poets with Zdravica were in the hands of women, older ladies with flags of the Republic of Slovenia, and possibly others who carried the flag of the Quarantine Panther. On the other hand, in some opposition, apparently targeted by violence, individuals who are equipped with tools and against them should act with certainty. Just because the law requires it is too small, especially to make it a permanent practice. The whole of Europe is a victim of the Antiphe. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mag will answer. Vesna Györkős Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much. With regard to these events that you mention, I can say that the police have acted well, and have also ensured public order and peace. It has also taken care of the security of the meeting, and in the future, the police will address all those who are trying to violate public order and peace and threaten security. The tolerance for violence is null and void, no matter who tries to carry out such acts. Of course, expressing views and opinions is a constitutionally protected category, and it is also appropriate for the police to act at such meetings. I have already said that after the meeting, the police carried out certain activities or carried out them. One criminal complaint under Article 297 of the KZ was filed and the police also collect all the notifications. As far as the meeting itself is concerned, given that you are referring to certain circumstances, it is essential that the police have carried out all the measures necessary to avoid physical contact between the participants of the two meetings with the opposite viewpoints. You are well aware of the provisions of the Law on Public Assembly, which regulates otherwise registered and undeclared meetings on the other hand. In these cases, there have been undeclared meetings. And here, because of the general provision for the protection of life and personal security, the police have taken responsibility by adapting their actions to all persons under equal conditions to the constitutional right to peaceful assembly and expression of will. Thus, in the case of these two undeclared meetings, where the police have taken measures and activities to ensure the safe conduct of undeclared meetings to all participants under the same conditions, they have ensured that they can express their will peacefully. The appropriate police shall adapt the tactics and methods of action and shall also assess the intervention of the meeting and the individual in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Therefore, if, by other measures, he can guarantee all rights to all individuals and, of course, as I have already said in the introduction, he shall, upon conclusion, take all measures to sanction the perpetrators or perpetrators of the offences accordingly. It is also important to stress that the police did not in any case create direct tension that could lead to an additional security problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u85	Mag. Branko Grimes, will you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u86	Anyway, this is where one myth fell. This is that powerful myth that for 70 years artificially cultivated about a strong, violent right and a kind, loving left. The actual picture is, of course, the opposite. It is also the only logical and clear to anyone with common sense in the country where they are after II. The world's left-wing warlords exterminated, brutally murdered, even buried young girls alive in the Hudo Cave, some 100,000 people. Nobody knows the exact number. And because this can happen again, if we do not learn anything from history, we must resist it by all democratic means. And the first and the main thing is to talk about it in the National Assembly. For once this has occurred, it can quickly degenerate, and it can quickly be turned into extremes. And one extreme gives birth to another. I only sincerely hope that no one is interested in anything like this. To do so, however, you can be sure through Europe, where Antifa, left-wing extremists, such as those on Kotnikov, are disguised, with sticks, metrics, smashing in their hands, doing irreparable damage, nets of contentions, preventing democratic expression of opinions and, above all, suppressing any different opinion from theirs. I do not claim that the migrants themselves are as dangerous, far from that, because they are not checked when they do not know who is coming, it is a huge problem, especially if the law is still in breach. But just as dangerous, if not greater, for Europe are those who basically caused it. And these are the lefties who have a political basis for this. And anyone who says otherwise, anyone who speaks about the need to respect laws, to ensure order, to ensure respect for the personal integrity of children and women, is characterized as someone who spreads hate speech and similar nonsense. Even some on the right are sometimes very inclined to accept this leftist rhetoric, which of course is stupidity squared, but because we know what Einstein said: "The universe and human stupidity are infinite. And I'm not quite sure about the universe." And again and again, regrettably, in Europe in recent years, this has been confirmed. Therefore, if anything, it is necessary to speak openly in the National Assembly and place these things in the right place and name them with the right terms. I therefore propose that this debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 17. Maya. The Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, will answer Mr Jana Mahnic's question regarding the replacement of the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! Mr Member, yesterday we celebrated together on the day of the Slovenian Armed Forces and, as you can see, the replacement of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces was not carried out on the day of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as suggested in the media, nor has the procedure for its replacement been initiated. As I have explained several times in the media, Major General Andrej Osterman has already fulfilled the conditions for professional retirement, which means that he can also decide to retire at any time. Since this is the most responsible place in the Slovenian Army, there is no doubt that it will also be necessary to think in the successor to ensure the proper continuity of the leadership of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and I would also like a competent officer with a clear vision, military determination and proper reputation within the army who will be able to face all the problems of the Slovenian Army. There is no secret that I have consulted with some of the highest Slovenian Army officers on this. From both the current and any new Commissioner, when we decide to do so, I expect the planned measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian Army, which are not entirely dependent on financial resources, to be implemented decisively and effectively. In addition to all of this, as any minister, I, myself, wish for a possible new Commissioner, a man whom I will consider to be able to cooperate effectively with him. The selection of possible candidates for Chief of Staff is always limited and so is the current one. I would like most of my own time to see the procedures for the appointment of the chief run in a planned and transparent manner, as they do in the regulated armies, when the replacement of the chiefs is planned several months or a year in advance. Apparently, we prefer to take turns overnight. It is only consultation with senior officers, unfortunately, that we are triggered by the reaction of some potential candidates, the involvement of the media, the search for political embarrassment, and in particular the discreditation of individuals who could be candidates for chief, which also creates an inadequate climate and division at the top of the Slovenian Army. For all the general brigades in the Slovenian Army who qualify for the post of Chief of Staff, long and difficult military careers are also, in most cases, more than 20 years during which, by training at home and abroad, with expertise and with their work on various duties, they have reached the highest levels of officer and general rank. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that these careers are specific to the nature of the military organisation, from individual to individual, and that some more have survived in command duties than others, while others in staff duties. However, it is undoubtedly a matter of competent officers who have reached the narrow peak of the Slovenian Army in their careers, most of them have proved themselves on duties abroad and international commands, so I think all forms of discrediting any one of them, which can also be seen in the media, are extremely inappropriate and especially unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Now he's holding on to what the minister said, chief until 15. Maya, as some media have written, has not been replaced, but I would point out one thing. No matter who the next Chief of Staff is, he must have some qualities. For the first time there must be someone who grew up with this army, someone who grew up with soldiers, in short, someone who the soldiers know, appreciate, and respect. Secondly, when it comes to an older person, there must be a veteran of the war for Slovenia, someone who is now in a brigade or general position and who had the opportunity to fight on the side of the Territorial Defence during the war for Slovenia, but not or even to be a member on the side of JLA at the time, is also inappropriate. Here they are, as you yourself said, foreign language knowledge, participation in international operations and missions and so on. I asked this question at the time, and I also asked you if this was going to be Brigadier Milko Friday, some media not only the evening, but also the nationalist and others wrote about it, but I highlighted this question because we know that with Brigadier Petko he is as much as with General Osterman. You put him away for a year and a half, or now if he goes to the end of the year, for two years, then you'll put someone back on the pension in two years. I believe that such an approach is wrong, that it is necessary to look for a person who will lead the Slovenian Army towards stability. Certainly not those who have a year or two to retirement. So I think a big mistake can be made here, but a good move can also be made, which will bring the Slovenian Army back to where it was, say, five, seven years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer, Mrs. Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you. When I accepted the appointment of Minister of Defence a good year ago, Dr Andrej Osterman was Chief of General Staff, and today he is also Chief of General Staff Dr. Andrej Osterman. I didn't replace any chief. I have said in my opening reply what I want and what I expect from the Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, this is the most important position of the Slovenian Army, and we all surely agree that this city must be run by a man competent in all areas. It's known who meets the conditions. I'll keep talking. In this context, you will also be familiar with Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, you will request a debate in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President. I'm not asking for a debate. Just for the record, I would have corrected myself by saying that you replaced Chief General Staff and put up the current one, not by the Minister of Defense, but by your client, your Minister, Janko Weber, or the current government. Nor will I ask for a debate because I believe that there will be a few more meetings of the National Assembly by October, November, at which I will be able to raise the oral question of the Member of Parliament, if that seems appropriate to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, who will question the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! In the last period, we have been surprised by the news about personnel matters in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Here I am thinking mainly of the new members of the Supervisory Board, who were not appointed, who have been proposed. I also mean the administration, which is actually not perfect or has only a person coordinating the administration, at least this is what the website of the New Ljubljana Bank says. In this regard, I would like to say from the outset that, of course, I do not expect an answer in which you will say, see, we have a Slovenian state holding company and there they regulate everything in accordance with corporate governance. For the first time, the government owns 100 % of the New Ljubljana Bank, of course it also has a congregation and also owns 100 % of the Slovenian State Holding and Assembly, which means that the Government is still the body that has scissors and linen in its hands. In addition, as Minister of Finance you are actually the one in this government who cares about financial institutions, Nova Ljubljanska Banka is the largest financial institution in Slovenia, the bank which is important for the stability of the financial system, for the actual financial system to operate. In fact, I am interested in your role in the fact that the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia and the others, at least that was the way it was understood from the media, if I may say so, were kept to three members of the Supervisory Board. Thus, Nova Ljubljanska Banka has 6 members of the Supervisory Board. It's basically a minimum that it can even work. Two members are expected to receive a so-called licence or consent, however you wish, for the New Ljubljana Bank to be complete. Now, if one of these two doesn't get that consent, of course, there won't be a control council. It's also with the administration. The board is now a tri-member, and someone is the coordinator. And I want to know: What are you going to do to ensure that the ratings of the New Ljubljana Bank do not fall and, of course, to the country of Slovenia, if this becomes more complicated so that the price does not fall, because the New Ljubljana Bank is to be sold by the end of 2017, that is the promise to the European Commission? For all that we do not have administration, control and so on, as we should have, I will say, optimally guaranteed in accordance with the regulations of the New Ljubljana Bank, actually affects the price. That's why, of course, I'm interested: What will you do to avoid any further personnel fiasco in the New Ljubljana Bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dusan Maramor will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. I will, however, respond in essence in terms of the legal arrangements for the management of institutions owned by the State. Here, of course, no government has any power to appoint these members in respect of this procedure of appointment of candidates for members of the Supervisory Board. But of course it has jurisdiction for the system, that's true, for the system's regulation. And if there is anything wrong with the system regime, if it is such that it prevents the effective choice of candidates and then also the validation of these candidates, as we know in banks, is a special procedure due to the directive for members of the supervisory boards and administrations, then of course it is the duty of the government and my duty as Minister of Finance to identify systemic irregularities or shortcomings and to remedy these systemic irregularities. But if we go nicely in the order where this distinction is actually in opinions and the breaking of opinions about these supervisors and the appointment of administrations. This amendment to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks introduced specific arrangements for assessing the suitability of members of the supervisory boards of banks, namely only those who received State aid and where Slovenia is the sole shareholder. The specificity with regard to the regulation of the banking law is that the competence to assess the eligibility of the candidate before his appointment is granted to SDH and not to the bank. In the banking law, all other banks are subject to a directive that the bank is in charge of establishing a special commission within the bank, which makes the so-called Fit and Proper or assesses the eligibility of the candidate. We felt that this was more right if an institution representing the owner did so and not a bank itself with the personnel that led the bank to the situation in which those banks we recapitalised were. The SDH has already established its system of verification of candidates for members of the supervisory boards in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act. However, irrespective of the above, SDH must also take into account the same conditions and criteria laid down for members of the Bank’s Supervisory Board in drawing up an assessment of the eligibility of the Bank’s candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board, according to Fit and Proper in SDH, as required by the Bank’s banking rules. This regulation does not derogate from the provisions of the Directive, nor does it depart from the guidelines of the European Banking Authority. In accordance with those European acts, it is so possible to carry out a preliminary assessment of the eligibility of the candidate by another authority and not a bank. It is also recognised within the European Union that this is incestuous to a certain extent that the Bank itself, Fit and Proper, takes into account the appropriateness of the members of its supervisory board and its administration of work, which, of course, have a bearing on these individual members of this commission. It is said that the regulation in the new ZUKSB, because this Guideline of the European Banking Authority says that a prior assessment of the eligibility of the candidate can be carried out by another authority, another body and not a bank. It is also appropriate to take into account the fact that banks which have received State aid and where the Republic of Slovenia is the sole shareholder and is responsible for the consistent fulfilment of the commitments made to the European Commission in the State aid authorisation assessment process. Furthermore, it must be clarified that the Banking Act does not contain provisions requiring the Bank of Slovenia to issue a prior authorisation. Here within this prior permission, who issues this, or Banka Slovenije previously and then the bank and then SDH, or SDH and then only the bank, there are only the most different opinions in here and in this area the Ministry of Finance is working specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Actually, I'd like an answer. That's familiar. This issue was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances at a special meeting. All this is explained and so on. I want to know: What will the Ministry of Finance or Government, the Ministry is part of the government, the government is the owner of SDH, the owner of the New Ljubljana Bank, do to ensure that the New Ljubljana Bank does not lose its control board because there is a certain risk of this as without administration? You yourself have proposed laws, you have adopted laws, you have been divided by these laws, and see, the ratings for the New Ljubljana Bank will fall because you do not have an orderly supervisory board and you do not have an orderly administration. For the time being, they are still functioning, operating without the President of the Management Board, operating exclusively with six members of the Supervisory Board, they should be 11, of which 2 should still be given this licence. And you are the minister responsible here because you are the owner on behalf of the Assembly, regardless of the systemic legislation you have written yourself. Whether this is in line with or not with the EU and so on, it is about what you will do to ensure that the ratings do not fall and that the NLB administration and the NLB's visual board will be complete with the personnel that will receive all the licences, licences from international institutions, the ECB, the Bank of Slovenia and so on. That's what I want an answer to. We've adopted these laws ourselves here, you've adopted them, we're not. We were against it. It's a very delicate matter in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, you will answer, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u102	I would like to stress in particular, this has been accepted by the National Assembly and not by the Government. So it's the legislation that we have to respect. We must also respect legislation relating to corporate governance. So who's in charge? He shall be responsible for SDH's appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. If he proposed them, and here he goes, there are 9 not 11, 9 members now under this Statute, and if three members resign, of course he has to propose new members. It is said what the government can do in this case, see if anything was systemic by what these members were called, and where there were problems that may have caused these three members who resigned. And if there's a problem here, we need to address the systemic problem. And when I said earlier that we are considering the possibility that the Bank of Slovenia should have a preliminary opinion on the eligibility of the candidate before appointing a candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board in the Bank of Slovenia. In order to avoid making fit and Proper, the correct assessment of the suitability of SDH, according to the rules, which take into account both SDH 1 and ZBan and the acts, based on ZBan, and of course the EBA guidelines, then the Bank of Slovenia takes into account other additional criteria or takes into account additional criteria in the bank and there is a discrepancy between the assessment of the suitability of SDH and the assessment of the suitability of banks, such as the Central Bank or the Bank itself. So from this point of view, we're looking at this opportunity to do it the way I said it. Another in this given system is that we require SDH to immediately or as soon as possible propose new members for supervisors and that NLB supervisors through the process also elect the NLB President or members of the NLB administration, that is, the government, under this legislation currently in force, cannot do so, but we are thinking that in this process, as I said, we would eliminate what we have now found to be a problem and that we are asking for a preliminary opinion. The other thing that could be regulated, however, is that the Bank of Slovenia discloses all its sources of information and takes further account of which information is not available from banking law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, will you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I will, of course, request or request a debate on this issue in the National Assembly. In fact, the issue is quite serious, especially if we think that taxpayers have given almost EUR 3 billion to the New Ljubljana Bank in recent years, and today the New Ljubljana Bank is without administration, with complete administration. It does, however, have no President of the Board, the Supervisory Board is not complete and so on. I would also, of course, tell the minister, look, I am glad that you are thinking, as you say, I quote you, that you are thinking about what else to do systematically and that you would also require the previous opinion of the Bank of Slovenia. Mr Minister, I can inform you that the coalition on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy rejected this proposal a week or ten days ago by another opposition party, and the government was also against it. So now I hope that now you think that you're still thinking as you say, but you are, it might already be if you wanted to, or you could just simply take over or take over that proposal that was already there, and you're against it. The government was here against it. So here, of course, this is a question of thinking, of course it has a time frame, because earlier it may be that the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank will not only be under a major issue, but it will have such human resources play and systemic regulation, which does not have any effects, too negative consequences for taxpayers and, finally, for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, if you want, for a fiscal rule and for the fact that, of course, the Nova Ljubljanska Bank will be sold at a significantly lower price than it would have been if human resources were actually regulated and supervised. For this reason, I think, Madam Vice-President, it is imperative that the National Assembly hold this debate in the National Assembly, both systematic and non-systemic, and above all that this debate will result in effective measures to protect the state property in which taxpayers pay their money.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj, your request will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote, 17 May 2016. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Dark and Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Ireni Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister of State, respectable council! As you know, at the previous 18th regular meeting of the National Assembly on behalf of the Group of the United Left, I asked the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of your Government, after all, in the constitution of our President, all of us, about the problem of poverty in Slovenia. I don't want to be cynical, but I have to say that I got an answer before, but somehow, in an undertone, I asked him to at least explain to me, on a case that's very neat, from the environment that I'm coming from, how we're going to deal with these issues and solve them in the case of jobs. I'm not going to leak some data now. It's been talked about a lot. At that time, I cited the quote, and I did not specifically want to mention the gentleman who, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, had to give it to the public, where it was somehow stated that relatives, neighbours, civil society initiatives would have to be involved earlier on this issue. I can tell you that in the end it turns out that we have kids together at school, and we've had a little bit of discussion about it. In short, it is a very pressing issue, which is somehow not solved, or is somehow to the greatest extent covered in the shoulders, as I mentioned earlier, by relatives, friends of acquaintances who are very often in the same unenviable position or often are persons of the third age group, not so rarely widows, they do not want to impose this burden on their grandchildren, sons, daughters and so on, let alone friends. In short, it is a systemic problem, although this word, which the coalition has already misused many times, is no longer as loving as it is necessary to resolve. Since the Prime Minister has not answered that question, I must repeat the exercise with you two, because one of you is in fact already the third term in the ministry, which I think should have a short name. Your ministry should be called the Ministry of Equal Opportunities and Point. It might not be bad that there is a spatial resource in this ministry, but because we have the sectoral division that we have, I am asking this question to you, to which the Prime Minister could not answer me. In this society and country, how will we deal with the pressing problems of operations? Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister Anja Kopač Dark will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for asking. Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The right to housing is one of fundamental human rights, homelessness and poor access to housing for socially weak and vulnerable groups, as well as a severe form of social exclusion. On the basis of the assessment we made last year in cooperation with the community of social work centres at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have found that between 80 and 140 jobs are carried out in our country on an annual basis. In some cases, it is not possible to find accommodation for evicted families in which the family could live together or the solutions are inadequate in terms of providing complex assistance and support to persons who have been forcibly evicted. It should be stressed that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities are not responsible for solving housing problems, but, of course, because these people come to social work centres, of course, we want to help those who face the pressures of people. This is why last year, in the framework of the project Aid Package, one of the important parts of this, we also first stepped into the area of housing problems and then tried to work together with the competent ones, especially the Ministry of the Environment, the Republic Housing Fund and also the three largest humanitarian organisations in our country, namely the Red Cross, the Slovenian Karitas and the Union of Youth Friends, where we managed to activate 11 apartments. These apartments are: 4 in Ljubljana, 2 apartments are in Illyrian Bistrica, 1 in Celje, 1 in Mirna, Dolenjska, 1 in Podgrad, 1 in Postojna and 1 in Vipava. Since the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is not competent, of course it does not have financial resources, we have been able to ensure that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have equipped these 11 apartments and, above all, with grants, 16 000 500 euros is in the account at the moment, to pay the most necessary rents and costs. However, social work centres are involved in all of this. The Commission is, of course, to check which family would be most suitable, the criteria are developed. In particular, the Union of Friends of Youth, Slovenska Karitas and the Red Cross are working with these people, and support programmes of social activation are envisaged to activate these people. On the basis of this project, which we adopted last year as a pilot project in the framework of the Aid Package, we then, in a resolution on housing policy adopted by the National Assembly, gave this project as a pilot project, have an indicative two-year duration, based on which solutions will then be adopted. The fact is, when we talked, the situation is complex, a number of factors lead people to find themselves in such a extreme situation, that eviction is the only one or that it is inextricable. It is also important that we issue the brochure because I know it sounds a little bit like that, Mr Trček, you will place that it does not matter, but the fact is that a lot of people come too late to help when things are no longer solvable, that, of course, if they come first to the centres for social work, then they try to help and things can be solved. There are many such stories that are saved, but unfortunately there are still stories when people come to work. The fact is, it should also be said that, in accordance with the housing law, which the Minister is likely to tell more about, it is the provision of suitable accommodation for the municipalities. Of course, this will also need to be considered in the new housing policy, in what way it will actually be realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Majcen also has a few seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, for the question to the Member of Parliament, Dr. Franz Trčko. I also welcome all Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, I do not have enough time to talk about the solutions adopted in the Resolution on the National Housing Programme. It is true that the State must provide funds for the municipalities, but I propose that I respond to this part of the response below.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Ducky will request a supplement to your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you, answering ministers. Look, of course I'm not happy with the answer. Well, at least I'm glad you're aware of this perplexity of the situation. Madam Minister with a longer internship, including a fellow resident, we are both flexible enough to put it this way, if I may say so at home, but let us deal with a concrete case. Look, last week, the government set off $40 million to finish the power plant on Sava. Okay, that's what they'd be for if they knew something on the billboards, I'm afraid they won't. And earlier this weekend, the Prime Minister is very willing to talk about how we have to give money to NATO. It seems to me that this is a more pressing issue for which we need to find solutions. The numbers we're dealing with here are kind of rudely low. When Mr Cerar answered my fellow Member's question, on the subject of TTIP, he said, we support conditionality, and he said, we will not reduce, literally "not reduce social standards". Social standards in this country have been diminishing all governments since 2004, and I could show you these things. It goes like the minister said, after all, for the constitutional category, we have 78. Article, we have Article 2, we have 3. Article, these people are also citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Writing into the national housing programme to get some containers is not the solution. You are the executive and I, after all, as Members and citizens, have no interest in how this is sectorally distorted and how this is cross-border with the mayors. It's a burning problem that needs to be solved, and you need to, I'm gonna use premurder, I'm gonna suck. We're a very wealthy country to allow ourselves to be separated from each other because of the family's activities. I hope that you will at least enlighten me a little bit on how this will go in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you. Under the loan allocation programme, for the provision of non-profit rental apartments, this is the case with the Republic Housing Fund, and this call is open by the end of 2016, with €10 million. These are funds which, in terms of favourable long-term loans to local communities, public real estate funds and non-profit housing organisations, are intended for both construction, renovation and non-profit housing as well as housing units. I agree that these housing units are less suitable for families, but they are suitable for non-profit housing. In line with the National Housing Programme, the Housing Fund will also take over the role of co-financing the acquisition of housing units in the future. In this way, accessibility to dedicated units will be increased, irrespective of the place of residence. Why am I stressing this? In particular, because non-profit dwellings cannot be moved to where the need is greater, while housing units are mobile and, of course, the number of these problems can be increased in some places. In fact, in the framework of the Housing Fund, we are also working on a scheme for the provision of dedicated housing units, two measures – a scheme for the provision of housing units for retired individuals and families; the Ministry of Labour, in cooperation with the Minister for Environment and Space and the Housing Fund. An agreement has already been signed with the humanitarian organisations Red Cross, Slovenska Karitas and the Union of Youth Friends on the implementation of support and assistance to forcibly displaced families. Also equipped apartments have been prepared, it has been said. It is also a scheme for the provision of dedicated housing units. It is true, however, that we also cooperate with the Society for Older Persons, where, at least on our part, we have a great interest in providing smaller housing units for the elderly. In this population it appears that in the past there is one person in the apartment with 100 and several squares, meaning in any way certain costs. By reducing this housing unit, it would be possible to achieve as many as two positive issues. On the one hand, the owner of this space shall ensure the cost-effectiveness of the stay and, on the other hand, provide someone with a larger surface. In doing so, we are also confronted with the mentality of the people and the really great attachment of the Slovenians to their own properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek, do you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u116	Of course, I demand a debate because I am absolutely not satisfied with this answer. See in the first part, Mrs Resort Minister began to talk about some 10 million who are reserved for the congregations. A serious opening of the debate on, as I say at home, the head of the funding of the congregation will not be a principle. Many Members do not realize that a large majority, more than two-thirds of the legislation we are adopting here, must then be implemented at local level, after all, there must be some funding for this. Now, in these eight minutes that the ladies had at their disposal, the main debate in this direction was how the three largest charities and other civil society institutions dealing with what is ultimately the problem of this society and the state. [[…]] It is logical that one of my charms from Maribor, who has 300 and a few Euros of pension, who can no longer do so, is tied to an apartment, because, as they usually say, older people, I will not take it to my grave, at least that is what he wants to leave to his craftsmen. These are, of course, self-evident facts. One fact is also that it would probably be even from what is now said and understanding and misunderstanding that the Housing Policy Sector at the Ministry of Equal Opportunities is better, but it is not. And I have to say that I am fundamentally disappointed with some of your answers, especially in the light of how many of these works are actually in Maribor on a stand by if I put it that way, and also in the light of a matter that I will say a few more words about at tomorrow's press conference. In short, these answers are somehow definitely unsatisfactory and deny what Miro Cerar said at the beginning of this meeting today and we are lowering social standards and somehow not dealing with this pressing issue. Of course, there are other and other housing practices abroad, the profession has said many things decades ago, even in such a way that those people who cannot live like this could live in some housing communities, while maintaining these apartments for their offspring. There is not some warm water here to detect and in fact for these citizens and citizens in accordance with Article 1, Article 2, Article 3 and Article 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because otherwise you will be criminally responsible under the Penal Code. We'll sue you. I hope that won't be necessary. And I would like very much not to have this debate, but obviously, unfortunately, we have to have it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, May 17th. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkős Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to the ministers! My main question is the functioning of the police in this year's upcoming tourist season. In view of the assessments made by the security situation and also by the media, it was felt that Slovenia was one of the safer, more peaceful countries. It is also appropriate to have a statistical increase of guests, tourists somehow from the big night and this trend continues now, so it is to assume that in the summer, mainly on the coast, where the tourist largest area, the most tourists will gather. That is why I am interested in the following: we know that in the summer at all, when this tourist peak is very expensive traffic safety, traffic problems, and clearly there are other aspects of safety. And here I'm wondering: Does the ministry already plan or does it already have a plan to deal with this, especially in traffic, because we know that there are very large stoppers and there are accidents, accidents and all that? Another pressing problem, which is, according to the security segment, is the very presence of uniformed police in the field, which is said to be like observers as well as police cyclists and so on, because we know that there are quite a lot of people in a very small place. Of course, this is linked to the normal provision of jobs and the acquisition of material and technical resources. In this context, I wonder: How did you predict all this? Is it all somehow coordinated because we know that the local population has quite a point of view because somehow the police are very burdened at that job? On your part, actually, I'd like to hear: How do you prepare for this summer part of the season? It is also important to say that you probably expect to move the police from less burdened parts of Slovenia to that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The mag will answer. Vesna Györkős Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President. Commissioner Ferruga, of course, the police have plans and the Ministry of the Interior, on the other hand, is concerned that the police are in good condition or that we are improving them. As you know from your past career, of course the police make security assessments, even within the framework of the operational project, the tourist season is diagnosed with risks, security events and accordingly work plans are being implemented. The police are also working intensively with local communities. The problem is, of course, on those police administrations that are in contact with tourist interesting places, namely, the Police Administration of Koper and, on the other hand, if we look a little higher, so in mountain regions, the Kranj Police Administration and Nova Gorica Police Administration, which is also interesting from a tourist point of view. Of course, the police pay particular attention to preventive measures, and they will also receive assistance from other police administrations if necessary. However, particular attention will, of course, be given to transport, as you can see, will be as much flow as possible and will be as quickly as possible to remove congestion. Given that the human resources, material, financial malnutrition of the past years is something that we have been facing since the beginning of the mandate in the police, I will say that you are also successfully linking this situation properly with all the tasks that the police have to carry out. In 2014 and 2015 we focused on both staff employment and increasing funds for the acquisition of material and technical equipment. In 2015, for the first time since 2009, we employed more police officers than they stopped working and reversed the negative trend in the number of employees. This year's tourist season, the police will also be able to help themselves with the police we hired in 2015, with the exception of 100 police officers who are still in education at the Higher Police School and will occupy jobs in 2017. The police have been systematically reviewing the burden of individual administrations and will, of course, ensure that, in order to increase their tasks, everything will be done to ensure that the police, both through the change of organisation of work and the temporary relocation, will carry out their tasks well in the tourist areas as well. However, I can say that the current recruitment rate is better than 2015 and than in 2014. With regard to police equipment – also here were large movements, already in 2015 we earmarked $3.9 million for personal protective equipment for the purchase of transport assets already in 2015 2.4 million. A significantly better situation, which will also have an impact on the situation on the coast, will be at the end of this year, with the government spending 12.6% more in the 2016 budget than in 2015, both at the material costs of 47 million and at investments where the largest increase is 210%. The police have not had that much investment funding in the last 10 years, nor at the time of entry into Schengen in 2007. More than 100 different procurement procedures are now under way to obtain the necessary equipment for police or police officers. If I just list some of the most important things for all uniformed police officers. For 5,000 200 police officers, new police uniforms of EUR 8 million will be purchased, orders are under way, delivery is expected this year or at the beginning of 2017. This will actually enable us to acquire a new police uniform in these years, which we have been planning for almost 10 years. We're also going to get vehicles, and that's what you mentioned among the problems that plague the police on the Coast. Acquisition of vehicles of EUR 9 million for 328 civilian special vehicles. Over the next 5 years, we will spend €14.9 million for operational purposes for 348 vehicles. Thus, the police will restore a good third of the entire fleet, or a good half of the intervention fleet. We will also be purchasing new protective equipment for police officers worth millions of euros, means of traffic control, anti-terrorism equipment, information technology and I can say that all purchases in 2016 will replace obsolete and worn-out police equipment, or after more than 10 years the police will be in a normal state when it will only be necessary to replace about 20% of equipment that is depreciated or obsolete. Also on the basis of the honourable Member of your efforts, when you are very much fighting for the police on the Coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Economic Development, technology for Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. For the area of 6 municipalities from Podravja, Pesnica, Kungota, Hoče, Sevnica, Maribor, Ruše, Selnica ob Drava and three municipalities from Koroška, Podvelka, Radlje ob Drava, Ribnica na Pohorje, the Government has started temporary additional measures to develop support for the period 2013-2018, not this government, the former government, to understand each other. By the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, a proposal to amend the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on additional temporary measures of development support for the problems of high unemployment areas was submitted. It is noted that with the amendment of the decision, the Government is changing the amount of grants from funding for the problem area of Maribor, with a wider environment, from 29 million euros to 16 million euros. I would like to remind you that, in the case of Maribor and the wider Podrav region, there are social, economic and demographic indicators to this effect. That is why, I must say very clearly, I am disappointed at the conduct of this government and coalition, which you also very much promise the Styrians, Maribor with a wider environment, but there are no results. Slovenia should develop in accordance with the principle of coherent regional development, but unfortunately we see more and more funding going to Ljubljana, which is already so over-developed and other regions stagnating. I have no objection to taking care of the development of the capital, but I would like to point out that many of the problems in the area in the country have not been covered by financial means to ensure coherent regional development and at least temporarily take care of new investments and the development of the business environment. This is how we have the Maribor case where the Ministry of Economy proposes a reduction in financial resources, for example Haloza did not receive their law last year because there were no financial resources. It is unusual, however, that when it comes to Ljubljana, there is no problem in providing financial resources, and of course we are not talking about a few million, but it is close to 300 million euros. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask: On the basis of what arguments and indicators, the Ministry of Economy has decided to propose an amendment to the proposal for a decision to reduce the grant from €29 million to €16 million from around Maribor? And the second question: Do the ministry and government even realize the consequences of such decisions in the long term to Styria, Maribor and all the municipalities in that environment, of course, among other things, the municipality of Pesnica, Kungota, Šentilj, of course, from the environment from which I come? Please, Mr. Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u124	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Dear Mr Pojbič, thank you for the question. But first I have to fix you. The overall value of funding resources for the implementation of the Maribor competitiveness promotion programme with a wider environment between 2013 and 2008 is increasing. At the expense of increasing the return resources, not the non-refundable. The funds for this purpose will increase from 32 million to 40. However, it is true, as you correctly note and as a result of your question, that the amount and the amount of grants provided for in the current programme or plan to achieve greater competitiveness of the economy in Maribor is decreasing. Unfortunately, this reduction is due to a lower implementation in the previous years of implementation in the 2014-2015 programmes of the lower amount of grants provided in the budget for this year and next year, which will be lower than planned in the programme, because the implementation periods of the programme cannot be extended, as not all legal conditions are met for this purpose. In doing so, let me make it clear that last year we have notified all the competent and mayors and regional development agencies in the troubled area of Maribor, with a view to reducing non-refundable resources at the level of the entire programme, and that in order to implement the programme to achieve greater competitiveness, the projected 4 million euros in 2016 will be poor, this year, and around 1.8 million euros in the coming year. In addition, another poor million Euros of European funds were provided annually for the implementation of the programme. We will make every effort to ensure that the problem area that you are exposing is provided by the Member of the European Parliament in 2018 with an additional EUR 4.5 million. As you probably know, this final year of implementation of the programme, the 2018 budget has not yet been adopted and we will endeavour to increase the amount available, including the available European funds, to a level that will be relatively comparable to this year 2016, therefore, EUR 4.48 million in terms of the completion of the implementation of certain instruments. The scope of grants in the proposed amendment of the programme to help the troubled area of Maribor with its surroundings is decreasing, that is a fact, as you said. Since the implementation has been lower than planned over the past years, the budgetary resources provided for this year and next year do not reach the targets and because the implementation of the programme cannot be extended until 2020, as formal legal conditions are not met. For the next year, €4 million is available to help all problem areas in the country, of which €2.5 million is earmarked for the Maribor area and the wider environment. When drawing up the decision you are making, we were obliged to verify, in any case, that this area met the required conditions of three months of successive exceeding the critical 17 % of the registered unemployment rate in one of the high unemployment administrative units there. It should be noted that these conditions were not met and therefore the wider area of Maribor could not be identified as one of the areas and consequently the extension of the programme could not be proposed. The unemployment rate dropped there. I do not know all the reasons for this, but one of them is certainly, among other things, the day-to-day departure of our workers to work abroad, which at this point is a solution to the current difficult situation, but in the long term is problematic. 17% of unemployment, however, is the limit at which the Government must take care of aid measures. Unemployment in the Maribor area with a wider environment in the second half of last year was 15%, in December last year it increased to 16, and in January it was 17.1%. This, however, exceeded the critical limit of 17 %, but this overrun was only seasonal, as evidenced by the decline in this year's February when the registered unemployment rate dropped to 16,7 %. Development aid measures for the wider area of Maribor will be completed in 2018, as foreseen when this area was designated as a high unemployment area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, will you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, you've confessed to what I said. So that instrument, these are grants, is essential that we can help those economic operators and those who might still be employed in one way or another. There are a whole bunch of different measures listed here, and I will not list them, because I should be reading, which is just directed in this direction, to help companies not only survive, so that they can develop and that they can also work. But you said he was holding on to what I initially said was that the funds were dwindling. And that's what I find problematic. On the one hand, there is no problem, 300 million for the capital city of Ljubljana, and on the other hand, the funds are falling. Despite the fact that we all know what a difficult situation Styria is in in general, that I am not talking about Prlecia, that I am not talking about Pomurje and so on. You've used a lot of different words: "we'll do our best", "we'll put in extra effort" and so on. Mr. Secretary, you can't live with that! These are words that are meaningless. Only what was written in the conclusion, if it were to be realized that money would be there for entrepreneurs to develop is a key story. Everything else, "to work hard", to these people and to that environment will not bring any new jobs and there is no added value. You yourself have found that unemployment has been reduced there at the expense of migrants living in Austria, i.e., who work and work in Austria. And that's what happens after luck. But I think 17% or, say, 16% of unemployment is extremely problematic. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Zdravko Restoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u128	Yes, Your Honor, Mr Member, it must be realized that I am one and the reality is different. All promises from the past, 60 million, we cannot and will not be able to deliver. What I'm about to say is not effort, but it's just specific numbers. Before that, I must say that, in the context of the existing calls for a new economic perspective, we give priority to problem areas, or I must not say so, we are further pointing out all initiatives in these areas, including Maribor with a wider environment, on the one hand, on the other hand, it is within the resolution of one share of the funds from the previous economic perspective, I think that it is specifically 12 million for social entrepreneurship, because it is the same story, because the same matter is in a much larger sense also possible with the problem area and Maribor with a wider environment. However, on the basis of the Maribor, Competitiveness Programme, the following is provided for Maribor with a wider environment between 2013 and 2018: €4.2 million for co-financing of smaller initial investments in implementation, implementation through the Maribor Development Agency and the Koros Development Agency, €2.7 million for investment promotion subsidies is implemented by IGRT and SPIRIT, €12.6 million for microcredits, is implemented by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, and €10 million for initial development loans for investments is implemented by the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica, €3 million from the EU for start-up grants from outside the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, €30 million from the Croatian Regional Development Fund for attracting foreign and domestic investors is implemented by the Maribor Development Agency and €3 million from outside the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, €30 million from the promotion of the replacement economy by the Dravsko region and the Koro region for attracting foreign and domestic investors, €33 million from the tourism destination Maribor-Pohorje is both part of the euro, €34. This issue will be carried out and to what I have just said, I repeat that we are giving again because we are aware of the gravity of this problem and these words are intended to do so: in the context of the calls, an additional advantage for the problem area and also for Maribor with a wider environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, are you requesting a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much. Yes, what you yourself have found, Mr Vice-President, I propose a broader hearing, because I cannot be satisfied with the answer. I cannot be satisfied because I come from that environment and it is incomprehensible, the city of Maribor is the second largest city in Slovenia and we have 300 million euros for Ljubljana in two years and 34 million euros for Maribor with its surroundings. Dear Minister, if this is normal despite the fact that the city of Ljubljana is more significantly developed, it has significantly better living conditions and so on, so that I will not speak for employment and so on and so on Ljubljana has 300 million and Maribor has 34 million. I don't mind if Ljubljana gets 500 million, no problem, only Maribor with a wider environment, which is in such a developmental backlog, should then get a billion not 500 million. That's what bothers me terribly and what's wrong and what's wrong! We increase differences in advance, we increase differences in advance, this is not normal! Instead of reducing them to develop our country in harmony, we increase our differences, at light speed. When will you understand that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana? That Slovenia is also Šentilj, Posnica, Kungato, I don't know, so Will, Sevnica and so on, Lovrec on the Pohorje and that I won't speak. There are many of you who are sitting in this Parliament also in ministerial cities, which you are Mariborians, who are from the Styrian environment – what you have done at this time. In these years for Maribor with its surroundings? Tell me what you've done. I hope that when we vote on this then here in the National Assembly, no matter who is from which party to vote in favour of this debate in the National Assembly, it is still important. And then we will see and I will take the list and I will show it to all Mariborians, to all, on all websites, I will give it everywhere, so that people will see how and what people have elected to represent them here, either on the ministerial team or in the National Assembly. And yet I expect all of those, regardless of who is in which party coming from that troubled area, to step in together and do something for that environment and convince the other party that we need more funds and development resources than Ljubljana-center or Ljubljana with our surroundings. Once again, neither I nor the Slovenian Democratic Party have any objection to the development of our capital, but not in this way. Not like that. So please, Mr Vice-President, as we said at the outset, a broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Ms Marinka Levičar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark and Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Disability Commissions of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance shall use the list of physical impairments and their rates, which were in force in the old year 1985 with a self-government agreement. In 1989, however, they were somewhat new, but they were already very old. However, to assess whether an individual has a occupational disease, they use a list drawn up in 1985. The necessity of renovating this list of both physical and occupational disorders of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and its Council has been pointed out for many years by experts from disability commissions, especially specialist doctors, and the Association of Disabled Persons of Slovenia also points out this. Since this list has not been updated for so long, it is imperative that it be updated, including included in the ZPIZ-2, which provides that it must be in force two years after its entry into force, that is to say up to 1. 1. 2015, a list drawn up or amended by this list. I am aware that in recent years several working groups have been appointed within the Ministry of Health with the task of preparing a new list of physical impairments or updating the existing one. For various reasons, however, the working groups did not complete their work. The last such group was set up in February 2016, this year. I want to know: How far is this working group to draw up an updated list with its work? Will it be able to complete its work by 30 June 2016 as agreed and promised? At the same time, I think that my call is in place for both ministers to ensure that a new list of physical defects is really adopted as soon as possible and that it can be followed up. My next question concerns the establishment of a single executive body, which is the disability commission, in order for the Single Social Insurance Commission to identify the existence of disability. The initiative was established in 2010 within the framework of the Interdepartmental [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Marinka Levičar. Dear Vice President! I'll be brief. In particular, I will respond to the first part, where it is very clear that the PPIZ, through its enforcement, has provided for the regulation to be laid down by the Ministry of Health, so that the Minister will explain how the plans are and what the working group is doing. As far as the Joint Executive Body is concerned, the position of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is clear all the time. We are working for such a body, even in the White Paper presented publicly in April, one of the solutions is the establishment of this Executive Body. We are also talking about it when we coordinate with the Ministry of Health the law on long-term care and care, which is the basis, of course, there will be a new way of identifying the needs of the people and with this implementation of the new law, it would be necessary to find solutions concerning the joint expert body which would actually all the commissions we have in the country, that is, if you look at the ZPIZ, at the Health Insurance Office we have a commission, we also have a commission at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, and also the Ministry of Justice has a commission where this joint executive body should be organised so that in fact all the needs of the state authorities, so that when we grant different rights to citizens and citizens, we decide in one place. That would also mean a lot of rationalisation. Indeed, such a law has already been drafted primarily by the Ministry of Health, and it is discussed primarily in the preparation of the law on long-term care. Once the long-term care law is in place, this executive body will also be able to do more than long-term care. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Here's Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u136	Mr Vice President, Your Honor! I thank you for that question, too. As colleague Anja has already said, both ministries support a single executive body. Even some suggestions or drafts have been prepared for the purposes of this law a long time ago. As soon as we are done with us working on the Health and Insurance Act, and in the Ministry with long-term care, we will also deal with this law. It is true and I confirm that this time a working group established in February will conclude its work and draw up a regulation on types and degrees of physical impairment by 30 June of this year. On 15 May, this is said to be just yesterday, the deadline for comments and proposals by so-called extended professional colleges, namely the ten dealing with these areas, has expired, so that they can look at this from a professional point of view and complete this list. I would not explain now, however, because many of the people who worked in previous working groups have unfortunately not completed this regulation before and are now no longer in the Ministry. And part two, as far as I can get an answer on this first part. Your question, however, concerns the preparation of a regulation on the list of occupational diseases. It is true that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has given the Ministry of Health the power to regulate this area of occupational diseases, as the procedure for identifying these occupational diseases is indeed not good after the current regulation and is poorly defined. An integral part of this regulation will also be the exposure to individual professions or jobs, to say that we at the Ministry of Labour are already prepared to present it to all stakeholders and also to the social partners this month, because we want to regulate this area in a comprehensive manner, as is the case elsewhere in Europe, so that it will be a really big step forward in the field of health in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, here's your supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I thank both ministers for the clarifications they have given, and I hope that this government will finally finally resolve this problem, which has been going on for almost 30 years now, to the benefit of the insured and not least these companies, because by adopting at least this single expert body, the Single Disability Commission, it will make it possible to rationalise the business, improve the expertise and, last but not least, to unify the entire profession and also the financial impact. But if so, I would ask that you also receive written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Are you going to answer any more? Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for this additional encouragement. As I said before, while we are this regulation on the list of occupational diseases with individual stakeholders, when we have prepared it, we have already coordinated it and it is not a problem, you can also get a written answer. However, it is our task and it is also working in the programme to present, by the end of this month, to the first social partners and to the stakeholders most concerned by this draft regulation. Of course, it will be a more difficult part when it comes to the provision of financial resources, what you know or have also heard that the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce are also going in this direction in order to eliminate 0.53% of the contribution to the payment of injury at work and the status with regard to regressive claims when it comes to the employer's gross negligence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u142	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor, I would like to ask you a question regarding the claims made by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims – DUTB by T2. Last week, the High Court in Celje followed the T2 dispute that DTUB had with him and decided that the claims transferred from the New Ljubljana Bank and from the Bank of Celje were not secured because there was no deposit right in the IAPES register for movable property. Dear Minister, this is about €120 million in claims that have now proved to be unsecured. I want to know: What does this mean for DUTB, and what does this mean for taxpayers? I also ask you a question: Why did the DUTB not apply Article 27 of the Regulation on the functioning of a bad bank at the end of 2013 and at the beginning of 2014 on the possibility of such claims to return to the New Bank of Ljubljana or to the Bank of Celje?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u143	Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member of the Magi. Marco Pogačnik. Initially, I would like to explain that the risk items transferred to the DUTB in 2013 and the price paid for it have been verified by the European Commission in the State aid approval process. I would also like to point out that the content of the Supreme Court's decision at the Ministry is unknown because we are not a party to the proceedings. We can't and we don't want to comment on it. We also do not know, nor is it a matter of supervision of the Ministry, since the Ministry does not have the right to examine the DUTB's business decisions, how the DUTB will henceforth approach the issue of debt holding to T2. However, I expect that any DUTB action will, of course, be cost-effective. There is no doubt that the Court’s decision is not due to the poor part of the DUTB, but to violations of the prudential behaviour of the persons who have concluded the insurance. DUTB is only confronted with the consequences of such practices. With regard to the impact of the decision on DUTB, I can say that DUTB must produce its accounts in accordance with international accounting standards. If the Court's decision requires a weakening of funds, it is realistic that the DUTB will also do so. It is also true that DUTB must report any suspected offence to the competent authorities in relation to the risk items transferred to it, such as this T2. The Ministry asked for an explanation from the DUTB explaining the following: "With regard to the validity of the acquisition of flag rights on telecommunications lines or cable sewerage, a number of judicial proceedings are under way. The proceedings which took place in the framework of the enforcement proceedings before the Regional Court in Celje are only one of them. The DUTB emphasises that enforcement has led to the recovery of some EUR 2 million, which means that decisions regarding the majority of the DUTB’s secured claims to the T-2 Court have not yet been taken. The DUTB notes, however, that part of the transferred claims is irrefutablely secured by flags on T-2 immovable property. The DUTB also explains that under the Regulation on the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks, there was no legal basis for the recovery of these claims – and then I will indicate which legal bases are needed. The DUTB states that the Constitutional Court has temporarily suspended the management of actions in insolvency proceedings pending a judgment of the merits of two constitutional complaints. Now I don't know which of these conditions wasn't met, but three conditions must be. That is to say, when a transfer of this item can result in the payment received by the bank for the claim transferred to the DUTB, the purpose of the takeover cannot be realized due to the errors found — this is the first time that the DUTB cannot, for these errors, realize what it has taken over — it cannot otherwise remedy the error or compensate for the damage caused by the error, and it can return the assets transferred back to the situation in which it was received. I do not know which of these three conditions was not met, that DUTB could not repay the claim or only receive the refund for those claims. ZUKS also provides that DUTB must inform Banka Slovenije of the intended derogation from the takeover of the risk item, since DUTB may withdraw from taking the risk item only if the Bank of Slovenia announces that the derogation from the takeover of the risk item will not jeopardise the Bank's capital adequacy. In this case, if it's 2 million, it probably wouldn't be the case because it's a relative [[…]] However, the ZUKS does not set a time limit within which DUTB may exercise this right, i.e. the DUTB is not limited in time, but it must certainly be that the three assumptions I mentioned above are fulfilled in order for the return to take place – the answer to your second question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u145	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please, request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u146	Dear Minister, thank you for this part of the answer. I did not ask you to comment on the judgment of the court, I asked you as Minister of Finance what the consequences would be for the DUTB or the taxpayers. It is now clear that the higher court has decided that claims transferred from NLB from the Bank of Celje are not secured and that they are secured by approximately 1 % of these claims. However, the total amount of these claims is around EUR 120 million. We talked about it, and then we'll find out again from the media that it means, I don't know, an extra recapitalisation. What does this mean for DUTB now, and this, as finance minister, should probably check with them whether there will be weaknesses in their balance sheets or not. We are not talking today, I would say, about one, two million euros, we are talking today about 120 million euros! Dear Minister of Finance, I have already put two written questions to you on this subject; one in February 2015 and one in October 2015. You responded to one, DUTB answered one; and even then, somehow, you all claimed that this was not true, the claim or the lien was written off. But the honourable Minister, who will take this responsibility, it is now clear, after the decision of the higher court, that the lien right of movable property has not been entered into the register of Apes. That's all I want to know. I want an answer. What will be the consequences? We also know that the Constitutional Court has issued a provisional order to freeze the bankruptcy proceedings against T-2. Who will be responsible for all these chariots? What does that mean for taxpayers? What does that mean for DUTB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u148	Once again, I would like to point out that if this insurance was inadequate, it was an inadequate insurance provided by the bank before it was transferred to the DUTB. That's what they say. It's not the DutB's responsibility, it's the banks. Exactly how much DUTB has in its procedures, special procedures, how bad it is for its claims or assets, how much it has weakened, I do not have this information. Of course, if the weaknesses are very large on the entire portfolio, since it is not just one of these claims, it is a whole portfolio of assets in which the property, claims, ownership shares and the rest are held, but will ultimately be seen whether it will achieve the DUTB return it needs to achieve; it is said to maintain capital while at the same time achieving the 8 % return as set out in the law. If this return is not achieved or if it does not reach that capital, it will be necessary to correct it. However, if, in the meantime, capital falls, as we know by the law on the ZGD, below half, it will be necessary to recapitalise. Of course, DUTB could return, if the conditions were met, this claim and get paid back, but then the problem is with the Ljubljana Bank. However, the basic problem is not in the DUTB; the court has ruled that the original insurance was not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, good afternoon! I am addressing you with a question that does not, otherwise, knock on the door in these sunny days, but was particularly marked, if I recall correctly, also by your mandate; I am talking about floods, flood protection, the protection of life, health and, above all, property. In fact, too often we are experiencing – and this problem is being drawn from the mandate and is linked to the resources at our disposal – that we have to solve the problems after they have arisen, not to act preventively. In particular, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you: What is your view of flood resolution in particular? We have many of these in the Republic of Slovenia. What will be your next approach? In fact, many citizens are also turning to me as a Member coming from the flood zone, from the area of the Vipava Valley; in particular, the Vipava River is constantly flooding. How can citizens themselves be protected, or what will be the further approach of the Republic of Slovenia in solving such problems? However, I believe and I know that this is certainly linked to financial resources. So far, so much for me. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr Matjaž, also, for the question. It is true that reducing flood risk in Slovenia is our priority. It is also true that we have implemented an action programme last year, within which some systemic solutions were also planned – now we have the Water Directorate – and already mentioned that a water management plan is being adopted this year, together with a marine environment plan and a flood safety plan. This project is now in full assessment or in the preparation of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment so that these documents are expected to be adopted in the autumn by the Government. As you have already mentioned, there are 61 areas within which flood security must be ensured and the order itself depends mainly on the economic calculation, i.e. which environment is most affected in economic terms at the time of the flood. It is true that, in the past cohesion period, we have already used resources for flood management, both Savinja and Drave. During the next period, we will continue these two projects in 2014-2020 and will also join this project to identify the anti-floating security of Ljubljana and Polhove Gradc. This task is now in progress; therefore, projects are being prepared to obtain a building permit, and only implementation, if there are no major problems, could start next year. I also, I admit, look forward to it starting as soon as possible. And the Iron Project. In this part too, project documentation for implementation is already being prepared. So this is the cohesion part. Then there are still some possibilities for obtaining European Union funds after international cooperation, such as with Croatia and with Austria and Italy. Even in this set of Interreg projects, we have prepared a very professional part of these tasks and then only a performance. I strongly wish and expect these projects to be confirmed, given that the Government has confirmed this action plan, which also provides better flood safety. It is true, however, that there are still some projects that are financed exclusively from the water fund. Here I am going to turn – for a short time we have talked about how the funds that the local communities receive from electricity concessions would focus more on this part to ensure anti-flood security. In fact, it has been shown that where accumulation lakes are built, there is no such need for funding, while in other places there are great needs but no resources. Sadly, though, in terms of negotiation, the position was not intended to be single-handed. Otherwise, the Lučki dam in Savinja in Mozir was opened this year, then it is the removal of the Vogršček barrier with the related facilities, the documentation is now being prepared – it is the rehabilitation of the high-water wall and the reconstruction of the high-water embankment in Gornja Radgona, further, the flood security of Grosuplja, the implementation of measures to reduce the flood threat in the Titan area – Svit in Kamnik, then in Šentjur – is a multi-year project in Šentjur. I have already given some answers in the sense of answering the question. It is also a reduction of flood risk due to the watercourse Koren in the area of the Municipality of Nova Gorica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German, are you asking for a supplement to the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll be very short on questioning. By the way, the Krajina have turned to me from the place of the Krajina. I refer to this case, which otherwise applies to the whole country. In fact, the inhabitants of the Krajevna Community of Prvačina decided, together with the Municipality of Nova Gorica, to help themselves and protect their territory and properties. But unfortunately, instead of fighting only nature here, they also had a country. In fact, individuals, including the Municipality of Nova Gorica, are now fighting in the courtrooms to prove their own self - help. I'm interested in your position on this: Is the power of the country to come here to citizens a little closer to at least those who have already helped themselves not to be punished? However, we also have a case of people helping themselves to dig up the river by applying grammosis and thus getting a bill from Ars or a bill to settle it. Only as information: Are you familiar with such cases? How can we approach citizens in some way as a country to solve this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u156	I admit that I am aware of some problems, but it is true that the country has concessions for individual watercourses. Concessionists know what the procedures are for carrying out or raising the embankment. Last year, we were still looking for opportunities within building legislation, and this possibility is allowed to implement certain measures in the light of the difficulties they are. But it is true that they cannot be implemented by everyone; they cannot be implemented without the consent of the agency now, but by the Water Directorate. In fact, the watercourses are one of those natural conditions where we can improve the situation in one part, and therefore make it worse downstream and must be synchronized, in terms of ensuring better anti-flood safety across the whole section or building these flood-reduction measures in a way that does not deteriorate in some other environments. As far as concrete procedures are concerned, I would like to say that if they are under inspection, then an inspection, if procedures are conducted, in terms of what I have said, of course does not punish offenders, does not impose certain measures on them. However, if these conditions are not met, and I suggest to the local communities in particular, they know best what measures and how to prepare them. The municipalities, which have also prepared projects during last year, are now in the process of obtaining building permits and entering the Ministry through the Water Fund for Co-financing. This means that the interest of municipalities, some mayors, is therefore high for the implementation of these measures and they are also willing to join the co-financing process. This means that we can expect a strong improvement in the situation over the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will ask the Minister for Home Affairs, Master's degree Vesni Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, I have already asked you a written question with a similar subject, but now the subject is very topical again. A few days ago, the first group of 28 migrants from Greece arrived in Slovenia. According to the original plan, 20 migrants were initially envisaged, both Syrian and Iraqi citizens. Currently, as I am aware, they are settled in an asylum home in Ljubljana, where the acquisition or process of obtaining international protection is also taking place. In addition, let me draw attention to the information on the police website on 13 May. In Slovenia, therefore, there are currently 348 migrants living in an asylum home and a centre for foreigners and exhibitions, with 11 being relocated elsewhere. I've traced the information that your Ministry of Government is also supposed to suggest that more migrants move in with us. I want to know: How many numbers are we talking about here? However, with all this programme for the relocation of migrants from Greece, the security aspect in particular needs to be addressed. A while ago, I warned you about some of the things that happened in Salzburg, Cologne, Sweden and so on. Of course, today the whole of Europe is on an extremely difficult test, in particular as regards the security situation, the security aspect, and it is, of course, necessary to ask what the Slovenian state has done in this area to protect Slovenian citizens and citizens. Now I'm interested in the following: Or have migrants recently arrived in Slovenia under a Greek relocation programme been screened for safety? It says, in what way and: Are any criminal or criminal proceedings against migrants in Slovenia being conducted? I was wondering if you had any information. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Member! I need to fix you up in the first place. In fact, when you were talking about the number of 20 people, this 20, to move 20 people to Slovenia, this number is still the same in the context of resettling, I guess. So, we need to separate the relocation and resettle. As you know, the Heads of State committed last July to move a certain quota of persons from third countries and this number for Slovenia was set at 20, today this number is still the same, but given the situation as the situation will unfold, the final number will depend on the current migration flow and the final agreement on the number of persons transferred, in particular the EU-Turkey agreement, which should also be implemented. As far as security is concerned, I think it is quite clear from my previous implementations on all committees, both here and in plenary sessions, that we are aware of the comprehensive context of migration. There is also a great deal of attention, given that I am, however, the Secretary of State for Security, I am devoting myself to this issue because we are aware of all the risks arising from either mass migration. You know that we were under disproportionate pressure, the primary concern was inseparability and the flow was controlled that it was actually controlled. We are also aware of all the risks or difficulties posed by systematic migration, which is certainly a relocation or relocation as a solidarity mechanism within the European Union, which is the basis of the Treaty on European Union. This means that it is a transfer of persons in need of international protection from one Member State to another when a particular country is under disproportionate pressure. Here I must say that Slovenia has demonstrated its awareness of the importance of security, because at the beginning of the negotiations at the Brussels ministerial meeting on the Council's conclusions, which in fact constitute the legal basis for the implementation of the relocation project from Italy and Greece, we have drawn attention to the security element, i.e. the potential security risk. Therefore, at the request of Slovenia, an additional provision 26 was introduced on the legal basis which, in conjunction with Article 5, gives a Member State the possibility of rejecting a potentially displaced person if there are legitimate reasons for national security or public order. In accordance with this Article 5 – and the other countries then supported Slovenia – we appointed a liaison officer, the Ministry of the Interior appointed a liaison officer whose key task was to verify the security of candidates or data of individual candidates for relocation identified and interviewed by EASA staff in Italy and Greece. In the event that that liaison officer finds that there are reasonable grounds for considering a person as a threat to national security or to public order or that there are grounds for exclusion, that official would, of course, reject the individual candidate by written reasoning. Thus, Slovenia has done what concerns the security segment in this context. I agree, however, that the security and accountability of the police in the sense of preventing and detecting all crimes, not only in relation to migration, is essential for protecting the highest values on which our society is based, which, of course, you have already pointed out at the time when we discussed events in Cologne or Salzburg.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, if you please, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your words and thank you for your answers, Madam Minister. Very briefly, answer me just this question: Are any criminal and criminal proceedings against migrants in Slovenia being conducted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u163	Here you go, Minister Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u164	I have no accurate data at hand, but if there have been any events that require the police's response either in terms of a crime or a crime, then they are certainly being conducted, but if you want, we can then provide you with this information in writing. All right, we'll mediate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. It is probably known to the general public that the Minister and I have quite different views on justice, but that is probably how it will remain, and I doubt that we will be able to draw them closer. But, of course, we can have an argument. Look, I'm going to start a little wider -- I don't know if you'll remember, you might even remember it personally -- in 1996, in the state administration, we introduced a principle 20 years ago that someone who works in the government can't be paid twice. It means he can't, like, do some work at the Ministry and do some lectures at the same time. Let me remind you that in today's reply to the question of the Member of the Commission, you have just told me that the same thing is still going on in the area of the judiciary. I believe that administrative procedures, business and so on, because the court has replied, are also such that you could have overlooked this, but this is a less important matter. I mean, after twenty years it's still the same; judges are paid and insist that they can be paid twice. For once at the office of Yes, look at today’s answer, and for once at work it’s because they teach. [[…]] For example, all of them teach very often about bankruptcy laws and other things. But that's not the subject of the question. In fact, the topic of the question is also one of my questions which I have asked you; that is, lectures or payments for lectures to judges, that is a fundamental question that I have referred to, which I have also sent. Look, universities, both Maribor's and Ljubljana's, have certain prices, assistant so much, regular professor so much, extraordinary so much, higher lecturer so much and, say, for this highest title of regular professor you'll get there about 50 Euros of net fees. About 50 Euros of net fee, it's already hard, so it's gross out there somewhere between 65 and 70. For all of these lower titles, of course much less, and for people who don't even have a master's degree who don't even have a status, say, a higher lecturer. Look, we have – I don't know which of the ministers accepted this and confirmed it, the fact is that you haven't changed – in the Court of Justice within the Education Centre a set of €130 net per school hour of lectures, ladies and gentlemen – those who know what this is about. 130 euros net! That means about three times that for a regular professor at the university. Then there I see Mr Štefančič teaching, and there I see, years ago, Mr Anderlič, if you like, he was a doctor of knowledge, but after basic education he was a high school student. My question is: Are you going to change these prices and get them, like, a framework of university prices, which I think would be right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mag. Klemenice, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u168	Vice-President, honourable Member Dr. Gorenak, Members and Members of Parliament! We are talking about lectures in the context of education organised by the Centre for Education in Justice. The price list is set by the Regulation on the establishment of copyright fees for judicial education, was adopted in 2009, and was then amended during the second Janša government, Minister Plitčanič changed it, and this price list is still valid today. So I assume that you agreed to this at the time, but it changed in a way that it went down by 15 euros. Today, this price list specifies the different forms of education carried out by the Centre for Education in Justice – according to local terms. The highest is € 130, for the most difficult forms of lectures, seminars and consultations or workshops. Then it goes up to €45, and these are different courses and so on, for judicial staff. So we're going in a row: there's a scale of different valuations that comes out of 2012, it's from the time of your government. That's the first thing. Another is when you asked how this is comparable to other prices or payments, and the question of how it is from an international point of view. I believe, personally and I believe that, if you are honest, you may also feel that it is not possible to compare payment for, say, a lecture to exceptional students in colleges and a lecture to be done once every three years in some specific education. No one who organises different workshops, seminars and so on, lecturers in the field of law, economics and so on does not pay as little as the Centre for Justice Education. In lectures, I don't know, lawyer days, court days within the Court of Justice, legal days, if you want, public procurement lectures and so on by private institutions, prices are not so low. Furthermore, the European Judicial Training Network of Justice Education Institutions, which operates within the European Commission, has an average standard for such lectures, ranging from €300 to €350, which we do not work on, and we will reimburse travel costs. Thus, from the point of view of national and international comparisons, we believe that this is appropriate at the moment. I absolutely agree with you that you must not be paid twice for the same job. In my life, since I've been in any position, I haven't charged for any lecture. In my opinion, most or a number of judges, especially Supreme Judges, do not count, not an education account within the framework of the Centre for Education in Justice, but some. It is also expected that any such absence of authorisation must also be on the part of the assumed, for example, the President of the Court, the District District and so on, the supreme, higher to be done outside the working time. But this is possible, because after all, you have taught a lot in your field of service and you have charged for it. Yeah, out of business! Only if I can't have this information so that one of the judges can do it within working hours. [[…]] As it is said, some people are failing to do so — I think this is getting worse — too. I'd say that too, it's a large number of such lectures that are being conducted annually. They are always set out in advance by an annual education plan to be adopted by the CIP and confirmed by the CIP expert council, which consists of all stakeholders, judges, prosecutors, notaries, lawyers, representatives of law schools, executors and so on. However, as Minister, of course, I do not interfere with the choice of individual lecturers, because I do not have the authority to do so, but all lecturers are also very carefully evaluated. Surveys are very detailed and regularly monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, will you request a supplemental response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. This part, whether they go to work to teach or not, was not the subject of my parliamentary question, so I do not expect an answer to this part that we are fair. I just want to remind you that today I have received this answer that you are presenting to me, but it was written by the Supreme Court. From it you will be able to understand precisely that they say that this does not apply to them, but that their working hours simply do not apply to them. They say that they can also be paid double. In this context, I don't expect an answer. I just want you to check it out. After all, if we have arranged this in 1996 in the State Administration, then they can take it, I think, some measures to prevent it. [[…]] My question was 130 euros. We're gonna have a hard time getting along here. The matter was taken up by Pahor's government, not ours. We have reduced these costs, as you yourself said, to a maximum of €15. I don't think that's enough today. But it's true that in 1996 the hourly positions at the university were different, and we need to know that, and then they went down hard if you call it that. You know, I can agree to prepare one lecture or one-hour lecture is different from the university when you need to prepare more precisely. But look, at you, so at the Justice Education Center, there's a repeat hour, and that hour can be repeated 10 times. There we will agree that it is the same to the university, but it is €115. It will be difficult for me to accept that anyone with a university education will receive €115 for a repeat, €130 for a basic lecture. But this isn't the case, and I'm not going to agree with you, comparable to a lawyer's day and so on. Since it is likely that someone else is paying, fees often also come from quotations, not from the state budget. Maybe a comment on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much for complementing the question, even though you didn't ask me that, you commented. I don't know, I really don't know what we sent you today, but I'd like to say if they said that their working hours don't apply in court yes, they don't stamp. [[…]] Just like you don't stamp, just like you haven't counted as Minister of the Interior or Secretary of State. So, there must have been some other way of checking if you were at the time, I don't know, teaching Kotnikov off-time. For the record, I don't see anything wrong with that, but I think we just have to have the same vats for everyone. As far as this is concerned – see, it is not 10 repeated lectures, it is a one-time, maybe two-time, not more than three times when it comes to big schools. Once again, we already have problems getting certain lecturers in this area because of the low position, because they are everywhere where they organize Say, the GV press organises a small sea of these lectures and, of course, pays more. [[…]] I would add this because it is important that the CIP is financed in very small part from the state budget. The CIP deals with the plus. CIP with quotations, because it also organises a lecture for forensic experts, 350 experts and valuers are invited on Friday – everyone pays. The CIP also organizes a lecture for lawyers, notaries. That's pay-per-view stuff. In these cases, the CIP essentially operates, we will say, almost with a plus, except in those areas where it educates purely "core" judicial staff and in those areas where it deals with, say, legal state exams. To tell you the truth, I haven't thought about lowering the line yet. But it is a fact, and it is also working out that we will try to ensure more transparency in the choice of lecturers and in their colourability, we will call it that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u173	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister! My question concerns waste management in connection with the circular economy. In fact, the European Commission announced the revision of the legislation, the amendment of the European Community legislation on waste already in the first round-economy package, which was in July 2014, and then withdrew them in order to draw up a more ambitious proposal covering the entire circular economy. The Commission then presented a new circular economy package in December 2015 with legislative proposals aimed at amending certain waste directives. The targets are also to reduce waste disposal to 10 per cent by 2030, then to modify or re-use waste, according to recycled waste, municipal to 65 per cent by 2030 and, of course, waste packaging up to 75 per cent by 2030. We know the situation in Slovenia. In Slovenia, according to you, there are seven waste management centres. According to my data, there are only five mechanical-biological plants operating, and the question is, do all these centres have biological waste treatment, so to speak, heat treatment of waste. These centres are located mainly in Styria, Prekmurje, Ljubljana, but are not located in Gorenjska, Notranjska, Primorska or Dolenjska. We only have a disposal space, but we don't have a waste management centre that works, except for sorting in Posavje. That's why I'm interested, Madam Minister: How will we follow these measures, in the operational sense, in Slovenia? Will all of this continue to be left to municipalities, as has been the case so far, where we have seen that in the vast majority of Slovenia it is not properly regulated? Will the state adopt a plan or set up an organisation to achieve these goals?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u175	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you, Madam President, Dr. Milan Brglez. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Member, Mr Zvonko Lah, thank you for the question. It is true that we have recently addressed the prepared Operational Waste Management Programme on the Environment and Space Committee, together with the Waste Prevention Programme. This means that we are in charge of preparing these documents at the Ministry, we have been in the past, but since they have not been accepted, it is likely within a month for confirmation in the Government. However, I would like to say that the European Commission's package of proposals for the circular economy is in the form of a draft and is not yet adopted in the work of the Council. It is true, however, that we are now involved in this process, and we are very careful about the commitment of 10 percent. I also told the Committee myself that for those who will be met, say 11% and 12%, this is satisfactory, but for the European Commission, sometimes if you overstep a matter a little, then you are in the process of being examined and determined why. This is mainly because a few months ago, in December, the Court of Auditors’ opinion on this subject was known. We know that the measures and proposals of the Court of Auditors are large, so that a continuous amendment to a number of regulations is our task. While we are talking about waste, I would like to say this on my own that both industrial and municipal waste are committed to this operational programme. Industrial is about 4 million tons, and municipal is about 700 thousand tons and the circular economy is talking about all of these wastes. This means that, in terms of the circular economy, it is the task of all Member States of the European Union to source, usually natural resources, to recycle or reuse them as much as possible, and not to affect non-renewable natural resources, as much as possible. That is why the amount of waste being dumped in landfills — and here we are talking about municipal waste — needs to be provided as low as possible. We ourselves note that, in monitoring all these mass flows, the problem is also in data, by preparing an application that companies operating within the municipalities for the provision of public economic services will have to comply with and that this transparency or identification of data will be more accurate. But it is true, as we have already said on the committee, that there is something else to come — I will say a lot of work, not just a little work, but really a lot of work. It is also true that legislation needs to be – and this will not be the case this year, and next year – that the Law on Public Economic Services must be based on such an economic public service. The location itself is in a sense for Slovenia, of course Ljubljana, which covers, you could say, this mostly western part of Slovenia, we can say that it is far away. On another scale, if I speak for myself by knowledge; for example, we were on the lookout for one such landfill in France, where only that region had 80 million inhabitants and there was only one such centre. If we compare with them, of course it loses this charge, that it is so far away and in fact we know in Slovenia that we have from one end of Slovenia to the other end of 200 kilometers. This means that our commitment is within this programme, some additions have been made now in the last week, adopted the direction in which Slovenia is going to upgrade this system, and certainly some regulations will be adopted that will allow more economical and transparent waste management. If I say otherwise, we are talking in this operational programme about Slovenia having to be self-sufficient, which in some ways says a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u177	Mr. Bell Lah, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u178	Madam Minister, I fear that the costs of waste management in a particular household in remote parts of Slovenia will be greatly increased in a rural area where the standard is also significantly lower than in the centre of Ljubljana. Taxes and all taxes from all of this part of Slovenia will be collected in Ljubljana. As long as we achieve these goals, there is still a lot of investment to be made. We know that Slovenia collects or recycles roughly as much as Austria, only with the difference that Slovenia postpones 36% and Austria delays 7%. Austria, of course, burns a lot of this difference or is like an energy source to them. However, if we are to pursue these objectives of re-investing this as a raw material back in the economy, another policy needs to be taken. It is therefore necessary to recycle, process and prepare for reuse and decide which policy: Will all waste then be taken to Ljubljana, and will this be done in Ljubljana, or can this be regulated by significantly less costs already in some municipalities or in some municipalities together at the regional level? What will be the investments, who will pay? There is no municipality of these funds, the country does not have in the integrated budget : Where are these funds coming from? Therefore, I propose that a professional group or policy be set up at the Ministry, in which we will go and how we will manage this, from the household forward, the separation in the individual household to the municipalities, then the province and the country. And we'll do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u179	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u180	About who will provide additional financial resources for investments, I think we have already said many times that these built or seven centres that are in operation meet quantitatively all the waste we produce in Slovenia. In fact, there was no separate collection of waste at the time these projects were planned. Of course, here we are Slovenians in the European Union far ahead, we have won this issue very much, so that the amount of waste delivered is also decreasing and there is no need for new investments. But it is true, as far as biological waste is concerned, that there is a difference between rural and rural areas. In the centres there is a need for composters or geologic treatment of waste, while in most cases the countryside has composters at its or its gardens or farms. This means that in this part, due to the processing and completion of biological wastes, accounts of course are greatly increased on the waste stand, but the rural area is avoided. And then if, together with this public economic service, this waste collection centre is also built, these costs can be greatly reduced. It is, however, not a secret or anything special, but it is quite dependent on the mayor, his professional services, including the public economic service provider and the municipal councilors. They are usually municipal councillors who promote in the congregation that these costs are as low as possible. Indeed, the Court of Auditors also speaks in part of its opinion about the State’s economic service. Given that all these centres have already been built, they will also be built by co-financing local communities, including, of course, countries and the European Union, but also by local communities, it will be similar to that of the celery building or the waste energy management centre. This means that the local community is the manager. Now, however, the State is required to provide financial resources for all these centres, and I think that the municipalities would be the opposite in this regard, at least some. Thus, there is no reflection in this part on the maintenance of this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u181	Mr Zvonko Lah, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. I would use this business option because I believe that a thorough debate on this issue should be held. Because I am afraid, after what we now have built, that from all of southern Slovenia, Western Slovenia will be to take waste to Ljubljana. Here they will process, prepare for reuse as a raw material, or be heated with waste that will be used for energy use, and pay all the fees that the Ljubljana Municipality will then use for depreciation, I don't know, for other investments. Because I believe that these wastes, those that can be used for re-exploitation, not only for energy use, can also be converted into remote centres, such as Nova Gorica, Koper, Novo mesto. The problem with Dolenjska is that we have a disposal body ready for the next 30 years, but in your opinion it will not be used, we will have to take these wastes elsewhere, where the centres that are now functioning are said to be the closest, Ljubljana, and how we will fix it, what is then going to be used for what is done so far. As a result, congregations and citizens, households, will have huge costs. It is therefore necessary to complete the system in order to first separate waste, most already in each household. There are no composts and no biological waste in the countryside, no municipal waste is transported, two-thirds of packaging is separated. This packaging is a basic raw material, either for energy use or for reuse in the economy, which is already a practice in Slovenia. They're taking advantage of it. I am saying that it is necessary to determine whether the Belokrans will drive waste across the Gorjanes to Ljubljana, how much of the total waste they will sort out will be used at home. If this continues to be the congregation’s public economic service, the congregations will surely resist and want to process some of this at home. However, if there is going to be a state public economic service to do so with a regulation, it has to do so with a regulation, then we will have, I think, price problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u183	Mr Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016 in the framework of the votes. Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, chairman. As a long-standing student activist, not just me, but the entire academic community has angered the adoption of a regulation reintroducing the main funding system in Slovenia's higher education area. The government purposed to make a change in the hypocrisy of silence, or merely symbolically, with a two-day public debate that no one really knew anything about. This play of public debate becomes understandable if we know that principals are a covert attack on the quality of public education and the pressure after commercialisation of studies. Higher education with principals becomes dependent on one side of the number of students enrolled as a result of the advancement of already existing students in senior years, while the quality and actual needs of the programmes are short-lived in such a system. This means that colleges and universities find themselves in a mutually aggressive competitive battle to the bottom; who will enroll more students, who will send more students to seniors, who will produce more graduates. The quality of the study in principals is no longer an interest of anyone, because everyone is too busy with propaganda and roofing for the number of students and to be pooled for those trinkets, rare, public funds. An additional competitive mechanism with devastating consequences for standards is exacerbated by the fact that repeaters will not be financed or that higher education institutions will not receive funding for them, which is in fact only half of the story. Smaller colleges will be pushed under the edge of survival under the master's system and will be forced to compensate for this with English programmes or, worse still, with informal tuition in the form of various contributions to study, higher exam prices and similar mechanisms, for which they have already specialized directly in the last years of saving colleges and universities. And although this Regulation is supposed to be of a temporary nature, both the procedure for adopting this Regulation and its content are absolutely unchanged because it will have long-term consequences both for quality and for the accessibility of higher education to us. By undermining higher education, however, the confidence of the higher education community in the government has also been undermined, as many colleges have been lowering enrolments over the past five years, raising quality in this account – and now they will be fined financially for having found a government named Mira Cerar, who thinks that the Huruk amendment of the Higher Education Financing Regulation is a good idea. That's why I want to know: Why are you even introducing these chieftains? What are your arguments here? Even the liberal Golobich knew that the chiefs were a bad thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u185	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u186	Dear President, dear Members, honourable Ambassador Kordish! Let me first say that the government of Mira Cerar is the first to reverse the trend of investment after many years, in fact also to look at the future in the field of higher education, science and research, by putting it as one of the priorities and providing 5.6 per cent more funding than in previous years. This means €14 million more or €244 million for all higher education activities. This is the first time that we need to look again for legislative bases for the distribution of funds above the growth of gross domestic product, which is, of course, good news and, of course, universities, higher education institutions are expected and announced. However, if we are to carry out the distribution process legally and transparently, then we must respect the existing legislation. This points out, however, that the basis, as already defined in the Constitutional Court's 2011 Constitutional Decision, is such that it is only at present that it answers in a transparent manner with legal basis. In fact, the 2011 Regulation in force refers to efficiency, transition and international efficiency, which, of course, highlights mainly quality aspects. This need not be feasible at this time because it does not have a legislative basis, and we have accelerated the preparation of the ZVIS amendment at the Ministry, which includes precisely these criteria. So the quality criteria, which, of course, will also ensure an effective and qualitative distribution of resources within those higher education institutions, which actually apply their objectives. As you know, we also propose a contractual relationship and a verification of the achievement of the objectives. Since, as such, the ZVIS has not been amended so far, this means that such a measure has not, of course, been repealed and that, of course, the Ministry is obliged to act in a transparent and legislative manner, in accordance with the rules currently in force. However, in order to increase the volume of funds, which is proposed then also to divide over GDP growth, the domain that we are coordinating in accordance with the proposed regulation is, but certainly not in the way that you presented it. In fact, both the rector conference and the working group that prepared the ZVIS, as the independent higher education institutions, have been informed of the amendments to the regulations already in the working group, and therefore this two-day deadline is certainly not a time limit that would prejudge any decision, was a notification of the preparation of the basic methodology and, of course, a reflection on the existing law. In these days and even in the past weeks, this Regulation is being co-ordinated publicly with all institutions, including in the context of higher education coordination. What I would stress in this regard is that, in fact, we need the most change in this higher education area, the amendment, i.e. the amendment of the existing basic law, precisely in terms of the criteria, so that we do not prejudge in any way any doubt as to what the funding criteria mean. This has also been imposed on us by the Constitutional Court since 2011, and within this government we also want to respond to this longstanding challenge. That's why he's in front of you, and he's just in intersectoral coordination, including this novel. It has already been supported by the Higher Education Council, as well as by the Council for Student Affairs or the Student Council, with which we have also participated in the preparation as one of the stakeholders. Let me get this straight. This is an exceptional year, unlike in the past, when there was simply not enough resources to share, now there are finally more and they are heading towards reinforcing the quality of institutions, which must be the first and responsible for achieving quality. This is not only their autonomous task, but also their responsibility. Let me add that the registration procedure, or what has already been proposed to the Government as the volume of entry posts, has already been confirmed, so it will not be possible at this time to lead any direction towards an increase in the number of cities, while at the same time focusing on everything that is happening today on the programmes and also on the amendment of the proposed transition to institutional accreditation, namely that quality is enhanced by an increased level of funding for the entire higher education area. We hope it's in the right direction. I think that the proposed amendment is also a real foundation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u187	Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u188	Absolutely that the financing of Slovenian higher education under the regulation is unconstitutional, we know that it is necessary to regulate the Higher Education Act, and we know that. But look, the change in this law is already being passed — how many? – five years, which has not yet been successfully adopted, and now we have a rapid adoption here of a regulation that introduces a harmful master's system in the financing of higher education and we can be sure, even in the National Assembly we have heard that there is no more lasting solution than a temporary solution. That is exactly what worries me most about this temporary regulation, in general, because of such arguments that I simply cannot accept, Madam Minister. For the last five years we have had public education funding past the principal system, but now you say that this is suddenly not okay, that we have no legal framework to continue with such funding, even until the adoption of the new V.S.S., even if only for that time. You have just stated in advance that we need new mechanisms or new ways to allocate funds, and you have attached a number of 14 million to it, while your portfolio or, say, a higher education item, education is significantly heavier than these 14 million more, and I simply cannot buy that because of the 14 million, the entire regulation must turn to its head and to higher education funding to bring these principals. As far as the public debate is concerned, I am somehow operating on the information that the Ministry has passed the ZVIS working group despite the agreement, and in any case only two days for a public debate on changes in such an important social subsystem as this higher education is absolutely insufficient. In this context, where all of this is happening, I am also interested in: What is your ministry's position on the appetites of the Ministry of Finance after tuition and the transfer of depreciation costs to students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u189	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you, President. As I said before, it is not just 14 million, it is 244 million; 14 million has been added to the past reality in 2015, when higher education institutions have already received 5.5 million additional resources together with the scientific field. What is important here is that the public debate is not concluded that the regulation is actually being drawn up with the help and dialogue of stakeholders, that stakeholders are also actively involved in this and that, unfortunately, I can be held accountable for the last year, but not for the past five years that you have addressed to me, we have also produced a novel in this year for this reason, which is in fact coordinated among stakeholders. Perhaps even with regard to the relationship itself in interdepartmental coordination. It is not just the comments of the Ministry of Finance, it is of course a general and open inter-sectoral coordination that is currently under way, and I am convinced that this will be concluded in good quality, that is the interest of all and that we are also following it. It is not just a responsibility to share funds, it is also a responsibility to use these funds to raise the quality of higher education and here we are all co-dependent in this wide space, in order to achieve the goals that we have also set ourselves with the innovation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u191	Miha Kordish, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Of course, I am making a request for a debate on the Minister's response. See, Madam Minister, you are always talking about quality, this word you are terribly fond of in your debates in this National Assembly, and also in the public, not least, but by returning the principal funding system of higher education, our colleges will sooner or later find themselves in an awkward choice: whether they provide their survival by reducing the complexity of the study, which is something no one in this National Assembly would like to do, or whether they will compensate for the loss of revenue by expanding the payable forms of study. Otherwise, we can say that according to you, the purpose of this regulation is temporary, because it is intended to arrange funding until a new Higher Education Act is passed, but the history of this ZVIS is very traumatic. Over the last five years it has not been successfully renovated, there have been some 20, 25 such versions of this law, and I am still insisting on a sceptical attitude that this will succeed to you, which means that on paper a temporary solution to the principals becomes a permanent solution. This leads very quickly to the erosion of the quality of our high school system, because colleges, universities, other higher education institutions will be working on how to catch as many students as possible, how to get as many students by paper standards to a diploma as possible, how to get as many students to a senior year, regardless of the knowledge they have shown, because their funding will be conditional on the number of newly enrolled students, the number of graduates and the number of successful advances in the next year's studies. This regulation may sound a little more innocent than the law, but the Constitutional Court has already said nicely that the financing of Slovenian higher education should be regulated by legislation. And when we talk about the regulation governing the financing of our higher education, we talk about marriage; it's no different than talking about the Higher Education Act. That is why I think that the National Assembly should also hold a debate on the response of Minister Makovec Brenčič, because this substance of the regulation is legal and I see this instrument as an opportunity to discuss this regulation in the National Assembly, which it might receive, but it will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u193	Miha Kordiš, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u194	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister! This time I turn to you, distinguished Minister of Education, Science and Sport. This is a problem that has escalated even more recently. Something on this subject has also been heard in daily news shows, some articles have been written for this purpose, but the problem remains. Because there is a problem, because many students – and here you will probably have accurate data – will obviously be after 30. 9. 2016 left without an education. We both know the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, section 48, which provides that it is the time limit for completion of studies under the old 30 programmes. 9. But somehow it gives me the pessimistic response of the ministry, if there is nothing to be done here, the deadline is set and whoever ends it will be over. Those who don't finish, they're not going to end it. Let me also point out that we have different forms of education; we have a regular system, an extraordinary system, where, somehow, those who actually carry out this education at work take more time to do so. Maybe it's not even their priority to end this. However, I believe that the direction of the Ministry should be to find solutions for citizens and citizens to receive adequate education; to get the education they want; and that we should certainly find a way to resolve at least some of the issues and problems. Let me introduce you to him somehow. You've probably heard a lot of cases, too. Many turn to the ministry, but in fact some of the deadlines currently set by the colleges are extremely short. In a month, someone was supposed to complete a master's degree. I justifiably ask myself: What will be the quality of the tasks? What will be the burden on the professors, the teams, or the expert commission that will then examine these assignments? Then we'll be able to get some unpleasant information from the public again. Since I'm running out of time, I'd like to ask you for the first part of the answer, and then I'll complete the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u195	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u196	Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished colleague of the Minister, honourable Member of Parliament! It is indeed a very topical issue, which has, of course, raised a lot of open questions, not only on the part of the faculty, but especially of individuals who have found themselves in the situation of completing their studies. Let me first say that the Law on Amendments to the Higher Education Law of 2004, when we introduced the so-called Bologna structure, has already foreseen the completion of these study programmes, i.e. the previous so-called old study programmes, by the end of the school year 2015/2016. That's 30. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force It is therefore a 12-year period in which each of those who entered the programme at the time or were still involved in the so-called old programme was aware of this transition and, of course, this similarity. A 12-year period is quite a long time, while, of course, colleges or universities, higher education institutions have been familiarizing and alerting future graduates, masters of the fact that this manual is expired. This has resulted in a number of calls from higher education institutions to individuals and programme managers throughout the period. Some more, others are less intense, but the possibilities for the completion of the study have remained as agreed and allowed by law for each of these candidates. Given that, of course, we are also in this country one of those who stand out who have a relatively long study period, even after all the studies of the OECD, the European Commission and so on, of course, it is difficult to expect that this period now should be renewed for some longer reflections, because it has proved that those individuals who are interested are relatively quick to approach the completion of the study, but of course the objective circumstances of each individual in the conclusion can vary greatly. Here, in recent times, universities, institutions have actually tried to do the most openly to communicate the conclusion of this period and at the same time called on their programme leaders to contact with graduates, masters, mentors and teachers involved. This does not mean that they will never have the opportunity to complete their study. They will be able to complete it after the so-called transition between programmes, which, of course, means for each of them a review of the commitments already implemented on the so-called old programme and the possibility of switching to the new programme. Because now the old programs are no longer possible for 30. 9. continue to carry out as before. Therefore, the National Agency will also, of course, examine this issue of programme transition and also submit its proposal for transitional provisions in such a way as to harmonise the transition, in substance, between the commitments already made by the individual programme with the transition to the possible programme that is closest to the implementation and completion of the field study. Of course, programmes from 12 years ago are very different or differing in certain content, and they also differ in the way they are implemented. Here, of course, every university or higher education institution has the duty and right to look at what and how these transitions can then be formally implemented. We have also answered quite a few questions that have appeared very often recently, namely, what the student's regular progress means, what the transitions between the programmes mean – which I have just defined – what the repetition of the year means, what the graduates' internship means in this spirit and, of course, since when were the prebolonic programmes actually in place, these are those that were accredited before 2004 and after 1. 1. 1994 when this law on higher education came into force. The twelve-year period is indeed a long time, and we have also decided at the Ministry, given that we have also been invited as institutions to conclude in the past, not to extend this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u197	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Chairman. I said earlier, of course, it has been a long time that there will be no misunderstanding, but I also said that some have become involved in education even at work and have actually taken this education in a way that is one of their complementary qualities or, last but not least, their contribution to society. The more you know, the more you apply – it's supposed to apply once, now it's getting smaller. I see a problem elsewhere, Your Honor. Now you say we will not extend the deadlines, this is what the ministry has now decided, although I think such a measure would be useful for at least a period of time. For the first time because of the university itself – one of the colleges, this is where the student writes to me, she has submitted 900 applications for completion, which means that she will now be working in the colleges of massacre. They've got a month to do their master's job. Now I don't know if it's a month really that I think it's going to be controversial with multiple aspects. [[…]] Secondly, you mentioned the transitions, which I very much welcome, and I must warn you something; a student who will practically learn all the exams under the old law may be running out of a master's job, will have to go to another transition. And not only would he then complete his master's degree there, but he would be given new exams; and not only that, re-entry and re-payment. You know, we're closer to making money here. It seems to me that the programs that have changed so much in a few years that the so-called scientific mastery and then the transfer to the Bologna Masters are quite a few additional subjects, somewhat controversial. That means almost, if you enter 1st year, and when you're done, there's so much change in colleges in subjects that there's little credibility. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u199	Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Let me explain, programme transitions are also, of course, transitions between existing, including Bologna programmes, and of course, there are criteria by which within universities and colleges, in particular the programmes themselves, determine the necessary content for transition. This is, of course, the substantive domain of colleges or universities, higher education institutions, so that there is no substantive intervention here by the Ministry. Of course, this jurisdiction is exercised by everyone responsible for their area, discipline and development of the profession. I agree that it is sometimes the individual’s story that could have prevented completion in these 12 years. However, in order to further open these opportunities, I think it is right that, both in line with the transitions and with certain norms, the rules that are clear at a university or higher education institution have been notified, however, of how to speed up the completion of these programmes. From my personal experience as a professor, I can say that I have specifically warned my potential graduates that they should only approach because of the programme's outages. I'm sure a lot of my colleagues are, too. But in fact, this also means some potential loss of knowledge already acquired, and it is understandable, in some ways, because of the current knowledge and, of course, the acquisition of new knowledge at this time. I hope that all individuals will still find their way, how and in what way, with a really great motivation, to complete their studies. The incentive for the study to be concluded has indeed been given several times. You also know, as already mentioned, that we are very high in the average age of study within Europe, but it does make it clear that we must, of course, follow certain provisions. These were actually adopted 12 years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u201	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you for complementing the answer. I'm sure I agree with you at work, but my question was not now whether these students were lagging for all this time or for anything. But the fact is, there's a thousand of them. If there's only one college 900 applications for completion, then let's count it down and talk about students, talk about their families, talk about – I don't know, not least about partners, kids and so on – I think the problem is really burning. Therefore, it would be very good for us to have a broader debate and to consider how to enable and find a way for these people to complete their education. I'm still saying it's not the same whether someone's in their 1st grade and has one exam or if they're 30. 9. It remains only a final task and may therefore be more qualitative. In short, I hope that we will also have some kind of debate on this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u203	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Nada Brinovšek, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! I have already asked you this question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Since you were gone, I asked for a written question and because I have not received this answer to this day, I ask you this question again today at this meeting. So, what's this all about? At the end of March in Ljubljana, the Ministry of Health convened a meeting of all directors of the health institutions of the Celje region and it was only at this meeting that it informed them of the agenda. And the agenda or theme of the meeting was the organization of pediatric emergency centres. This is a pilot project, as far as we know, for this whole area. This means that children in need of rapid treatment can be examined during their regular working hours — between seven in the morning and 20 in the evening — by their chosen doctor, and during the on - call period, their parents should either take their children to a pediatric center in Celje. So, during the day to treat children, it's kind of a good doctor, and during on-call time, parents with a sick child will have to go to pediatrics. Madam Secretary, in this regard, I ask you: Why can a family medicine specialist treat children during the regular work of a doctor and a pediatrician during the on-call period? And second of all, I'm asking you: How does the Ministry explain the fact that most parents of their children will still be taken to the infirmary, mainly from remote areas, of course where children will be properly treated and the funds will be received by the Emergency Centre as instructed? I also want to know: Does the Ministry have any data on how many children were treated from health homes at the Children’s Emergency Centre in Celje; is it said before and after the establishment? Does the fact that a large majority of children are successfully and more quickly treated at the primary level, such as the opinion of the profession? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u205	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Brinovšek! The Ministry of Health received a great deal of initiatives and proposals last year to also regulate the paediatric emergency service or emergency care for children. We have also received the position of an extended study in paediatric studies that paediatric patients should be treated by a pediatrician. According to our data, unfortunately only a few health care homes have also been organised, so as you correctly note, during the period of on-call care, children are usually examined by family medicine doctors or possibly other specialists who are involved in the on-call health care. This is precisely why the Ministry of Health joined the integrated solution to this problem and, therefore, a working group was appointed in March, also members of the RSK for pediatrics, who made recommendations that the operation of the pediatric emergency department should also be organised in the emergency centres. This is the case when children also need emergency medical care, and in such cases the family doctor sends them to an appropriate hospital with a handmaiden. That is why we have now come to a comprehensive solution so that, at some point in time within the emergency centres, we can also introduce paediatric emergency medical care, which, of course, will be carried out by a pediatrician following recommendations from the profession and their requirements. And what is the purpose of this arrangement? It is this that we will have a pediatrician at the emergency centre 24 hours a day for 365 days and will be available for these urgent paediatric cases. To this end, it will be necessary to provide space either within the emergency centre or in the immediate vicinity, to make a recommendation for the operation and treatment of children in these centres, to invite all pediatricians and concessionaires in the region to participate in this on-call service of this paediatric emergency centre, to prepare criteria for funding and distribution of funds in relation to the burdens, and, of course, these resources will have to be provided under the current emergency medical assistance resources. This is already the subject of agreements with all stakeholders, both with the Health Insurance Office, with the community of public health institutions, with individual public health authorities, as well as with the RSK for paediatrics, who is preparing proposals from a professional point of view. Thus, of course, we will follow the principle, which we have been stressing all the time that money follows the patient. We will also call on the leaders of all emergency centres to try to find spatial solutions within the existing premises and to implement this system across all Slovenian regions, because unfortunately we need to find out that today we know that there are huge differences due to the lack of pediatricians, because we know that this is a very significant shortage in some regions. It is therefore right that we provide all our children throughout Slovenia with equal access or equal provision of paediatric emergency medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u207	Mrs Nada Brinovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Look, Madam Minister, I fully agree that pediatrics should be arranged within the emergency centres – but what is the problem? Of course, because the Ministry has included in the assessment of the financing of emergency medical care. Why am I saying that? See, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia states that in the framework of the funding programme emergency medical care is also covered by funds for children, which of course is right, of course, because in healthcare homes they also offer them their treatment. But the Ministry has examined the matter, as you say, obtained data on the number of children living in the municipalities covering the individual health care home and on this basis prepared a proposal for the amount of funding that will no longer be received by the healthcare home, but by the pediatric emergency centre. Well, then he doesn't keep the rule that money follows the patient, but that the patient follows the money. I'd like to ask: Does this intention not mean that a solution is being prepared for the primary level in this transitional period until 2019, in order that after this period the duty stations on the periphery or less burdened places or hours will simply close, which we know is strongly opposed by the public in last year? I would like to point out here that this is a matter of orderly ambulances, not some kind of shop that has bad traffic. I'd like to ask: What does accessibility to emergency medical care in the case of children mean? See, in relation to the rest of the population, these children will have only 12 percentage points funded by the new population in Slovenia, says only in the emergency centres. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u209	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Today, emergency medical care by the health department is financed in the flat. As I pointed out in the introduction in my reply, we have in fact only a handful of health homes, but only a few of which have organized pediatric emergency medical care. They mainly perform, as you said, this part of the family doctors and because it is a matter of, I would say, threatening conditions, then they travel to either the Clinical Center or another hospital. An important difference and contribution that we will make by having special pediatric emergency medical care in these emergency centres is that in these cases the parents will be able to take the child immediately to the emergency centre. But they will still, of course, if they choose to do so, they can take the child to the nearest health care home. This is essentially just an additional service that parents can use to make sure that if they consider that the child’s condition is so worrying that they do not waste time, they would say that they will go to the family doctor for a travel agent to go immediately to the emergency centre, where a pediatrician will be available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, a week at a time, and immediately go to the emergency centre. Why is that? See, precisely because this method of payment of emergency medical care is such that it is paid in a flat, which otherwise assumes that the healthcare home has a certain number of teams, either a pediatrician, a family doctor, a technique and so on, which unfortunately throughout Slovenia is not so and these teams are not perfect or are not employed for what the health department pays. Unfortunately, we have cases of course where this is paid in a lump sum, where they do not have adequate teams of employees for what is being paid. That's why we're going to have to do a review here. But it is a fact, once again, that children in Slovenia will actually gain, precisely because they will have a pediatrician in emergency centres for emergency medical care all year long, which is not the case today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u211	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A lovely greeting on my behalf to all fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The sale of the New Maribor Credit Bank is practically completed, as the American Apollo Fund and the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction are expected to settle the purchase of EUR 250 million for the remainder of the 100 % stake in the NKBM. The president of the Slovenian State Holding Board, SDH, said that this was a remarkable phase achievement in internationalisation and the most likely consolidation of the Slovenian banking area. Well, yeah. [[…]] In the last period, we have witnessed indications in some media that this is a sale to a so-called postal mailbox. By contrast, Biser Bidco is supposed to be a joint company of Apollo and EBRD set up in Luxembourg with a view to taking over the NKBM. It should be recalled, however, that the Bank of Slovenia has already requested Apollo to disclose the operation of this company and the strategic plan for the NKBM and that, according to the bank regulator, both companies have submitted all the required or necessary documentation to them and the European Central Bank. According to the regulator, this is supposed to be legitimate investors, or mostly bowls. The SDH published an explanation on the website on the cooperation of so-called project companies, the sales transactions of financial funds, stressing that they are not postal collectors, but legal and ordinary companies, and the procedures for transactions, purchases of companies. My concerns go in the direction that there is a possibility of draining the bank through the tax oasis, as the NKBM is well recapitalised. This could mean a severe blow to the lending of businesses and natural persons both in the Maribor area and in the northeastern part of Slovenia. Reducing the possibility of lending to businesses could seriously affect their self-employment, which means that our economy will recover worse and consequently less funds for social and similar purposes. Mr. Secretary, to avoid doubt, I ask you: How do you see in the light of recent discussions in the National Assembly and at the same time many conflicting media information on the sale of NKBM this particular sale of the State bank to an alleged tax-oasis company? Were all sales procedures transparent, legal and legitimate? Last but not least, on behalf of the people who elected me, I ask: What can taxpayers expect in the future from their once Maribor Credit Bank? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u213	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u214	Dear Member Urosh Prikl! With regard to all issues relating to both transparency, legitimacy and legality of the sale of NKBM and tax havens, I explain the following. The sale process of NKBM was confirmed by the competent supervisory institutions, i.e. by the European Central Bank and the Bank of Slovenia. With regard to the buyer of the NKBM, I explain that the European Central Bank has granted permission to such a direct acquirer, that is to Biser Bidco, as well as to the indirect one, is the mother of Biser Bidco, Apollo Global Management. Both of you. In the framework of the authorisation, the acquirer and the persons behind the authorisation shall also be checked. Where there is any doubt as to the suitability of the acquirer, the competent authorities shall not grant such authorisation. Pearl Bidco is not a credit institution because it is a holding company established in the EU area that is responsible for the consolidated supervision of the European Central Bank in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia. So it was established in the EU area. Any acquirer of a qualifying share must demonstrate, in accordance with banking law, that he has the reputation, the reputation and skills of members of their management, that he is financially sound enough and that his holding of a qualifying share will not adversely affect the functioning of the bank. As an NKBM supervisor, the European Central Bank found that all those conditions were met. In the event of the European Central Bank's assessment, it is solely its supervisory authority, which the Ministry cannot comment on. The license to acquire a qualified share of NKBM was granted to Biser Bidco and Apollo Global Management. Both of you again. I estimate that the sale of NKBM was a good signal to investors that Slovenia complies with the measures it has outlined. At the same time, it also fulfils the obligations it has towards the European Commission regarding the recapitalisation of the bank and the State aid authorisation. I expect that the lending of the economy and the population by the NKBM after this privatisation will be strengthened and that a good return from the bank will also be achieved. Last year, the bank was doing well, ending up with a profit, but with almost a third of the lower amount of non-performing claims and an improved quality of bank assets. This is also a guarantee, both of them, that they are good owners and that business is improving that the bank will serve its purpose well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u215	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you very much. It's not really a supplement, it's also a supplement, it's more of a comment. I must say, with your answer, you have reassured me to some extent. Of course, I don't want to call the devil at this point, if I may put it that way, but... After the publication of Panamanian documents in the National Assembly on the competent committees, we had quite a few discussions in which there was a considerable consensus on the harmfulness of the so-called tax havens. This thought is growing at the level of the European Union, and, of course, doubts and concerns about it, of course, I think they are not too much. It's better to be careful than then maybe ever to repent. So, I believe you and I am in some way calm – again, I stress this – but yet the disclosure of the business of the customer of NKBM and the strategic plan that was put forward gives me some optimism. But I'm wondering: Does this mean, of course, with the legitimacy and legality and transparency of all procedures and the legitimacy and legality of the buyer himself, both direct and indirect, whether the power of these documents — that is to say from the strategic plan itself — is really understood, but if I have a little poetic expression that the northeast part of Slovenia, in the financial work, is the area covered by the New Credit Bank Maribor, but there are better times ahead, yet the horizons are somehow clearer, clearer? Can we really expect that all taxpayers can rightly expect this to mean better service in the near future for both natural persons and for people and, of course, for the economy, and thus not least, the prosperity we have been expecting for a long time? Once again, Mr Minister, I thank you for your answers and your explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u217	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you very much. One of the key reasons for the relatively poor lending by banks, in particular those banks that went through recapitalisation, was a large percentage of the bad claims, according to poor loans. This is shrinking rapidly, and this is essentially a guarantee that in the future this lending will also normalise. As far as I know, as you know, he was in charge of SDH, but Apollo entered the Slovenian market extremely ambitiously, not only would he make a good bank in the Maribor area and the area covered by NKBM, but he wants to make one of the largest banks, if not the largest bank, in Slovenia with this first purchase. He has a desire for other banks, and in this way practically from Maribor to cover the whole of Slovenia. This was his plan, and of course it gives some perspective. We must be aware, however, that Apollo is, of course, a fund that, after consolidation and after setting up relations and doing business, usually withdraws from the strategy; and this is probably the next phase in five to seven years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u219	Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, you have the floor to ask the Minister without a portfolio responsible for the development of strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercol.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, ministers present, welcome! Since the beginning of the new financial perspective 2014-2020, almost two and a half years have passed. From the Cohesion Fund, where we have a total of €3.2 billion, around €1.2 billion is allocated to the Eastern Cohesion Region, that is to say less to the region, and 0.8 billion to the Western region, that is to say more to the region, while the whole of Slovenia is allocated about €1 billion. All the preparation of all the necessary documents to start drawing has been made, I will say, quite slowly. At the end of 2014, we adopted a partnership agreement and an operational programme, and then other criteria, various implementing guidelines and so on had to be drawn up. But anyway, it's been two and a half years, and I'm interested, Madam Secretary-General: How much have we drawn from the new financial perspective to this day? What are the areas where we pumped the most? On the other hand, the President of the European Commission, at the end of 2014, also presented the so-called Juncker Investment Plan, which contains EUR 315 billion. I want to know: How far is Slovenia here? We know that about a quarter of the funds in this programme have already been seized in some way. We know what other countries, particularly Western European countries, have committed their money, what projects they have reported. It's mostly about investing in energy, a lot of wind power plants, for example, and then it's about all sorts of new technologies, guarantee schemes for small and medium-sized enterprises. With us, however, we have only prepared one more or less list of the wishes of some 22 projects, among which the second track is still a priority. I want to know: How far are we? Do we have prepared projects that will meet the criteria and perhaps, as Slovenia, we will be able to get something out of this Junker plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u221	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member Pretty Chimenko, the other Members! Thank you for this question. Why? Because it seems important to me that not only Members of the Committee on European Union Affairs are familiar with the situation of drawing on funds within the framework of cohesion policy, but that is what I am and you hear everyone else. Now you know that at the end of last year, although Slovenia had major problems at the beginning of the previous financial perspective, 4.2 billion funds were finally successfully absorbed. In fact, in the year and a half of 19th city, when the financial perspective was officially completed, we reached the finally successful and truly high fourth city. Slovenia has been among the eight countries in Europe, which has been able to recover 95% of all funds from the European Union, which is the maximum at this time. As you yourself mentioned, we also agreed on a partnership agreement, an operational programme and in 2015 all other normative bases, a regulation, essentially ZIPRS and other guidelines. Why am I telling you about what's back? Simply because work was actually carried out in 2014 and 2015 not only with us, but through all the two-powered sectors. In fact, I would say that even in a higher drive, because Slovenia has spent almost half of its resources in the last two years, when the perspective has been completed. More than €2 billion has been drained in the last two years. This, of course, means that we have – and I have also made this very clear on the Committee on European Union Affairs – with the start of this perspective a bit late. All things are ready; also last Thursday we adopted a 4th decree at the government meeting – an implementation plan that practically now marks and directs dynamics across the districts for 2016, 2017 and already 2018. But now I'd still like to go on a few specific stories. So far, we have confirmed 47 applications at the SVRK as the managing authority, about €463 million. At the same time, there are 23 deposits from intermediate bodies for an additional EUR 100 million in the review with us and at different stages, in agreement with the authorities. If it is possible to better break down these figures, 8 public tenders totalling €47 million have been granted; of this, the biggest public invitation to tender was a joint invitation from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport and the Ministry of Economic and Technological Development for research and development. 8 programmes have also been approved, both of which will be followed by public calls, totalling €67 million. And at the end of 31 projects totalling €324 million. The largest among them is the motorway section of Gruškovje–Drazenci and the well-known 9 environmental projects. In summary, 47 support decisions have been issued for 465 million and 23 applications for 100 million euros are still under review. We are not yet in full swing, but 20% of the allocations will be realized by summer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u223	Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary-General. You answered my first question. I would ask you to answer me to the second part, which is this part that concerns the Junker Fund, which is the EFSI. How far is Slovenia in this harmony, we have given what roles, we have what options, and how much do you really expect us to draw from this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u225	Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj, you have the floor to complete the response. It has to take a minute, and so the short-term supplementary question was. It's gonna take a while. The minute we wait, it runs very slowly. Try it now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u226	It is true, honourable Member, that I do not have enough time to answer the second part of the question. The fact is that this issue does not really relate to the implementation of cohesion policy, but let me also say a few words here, because I absolutely want Slovenia to be more successful in this area than it is so far. You know that Junker's investment plan for Europe wants to mobilise, in particular, the European Investment Bank's additional funds and private capital; this means that the simple mentality that we have been accustomed to in Slovenia so far is the use of grants for projects that could have been very good, in which case it is waste. That is why we have taken the initiative within the government, and I believe that we will succeed in the end. We agree with the European Investment Bank to set up a special investment unit in Slovenia, something like that at the European Union level, which operates within the framework of the European Investment Bank, which prepares projects to be reviewed. And I believe that, in the framework of the establishment of this unit, we will be able to communicate very intensively with the European Investment Bank, which is also ready to provide us with some assistance in this area, to prepare an office, I do not know where it will be located yet, which will allow those who actually want to prepare excellent projects and also attract private capital to some degree at the beginning of the absolute consultation; and then this would be an office where the projects that would be prepared would be reviewed. And I believe that this office will somehow become strategic pipelines for really strategic Slovenian projects. And I believe that once we have the first concrete things, we can also successfully start running. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u227	Luka Mesec, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I'll ask you a question about the price of lunch in primary schools. Last June, June 2015, we adopted, on the initiative of the United Left, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which regulates this area, the right prices for children's lunches in primary schools. Our main proposal was that children from the first three income classes should be given free lunches in primary schools by all those under the poverty threshold. However, the government and coalition have proposed that second and third grade children be provided with only partial funding for lunches. The difference between our proposal and the Government's proposal was that our proposal, if all children received a 100 % subsidy, would cost 15 million and a half; the compromise proposal presented by the Government would cost 9 million. The law entered into force 1. 1. 2016 and, therefore, after a few months, I am interested in how the law works in practice. I have a few specific questions for you, Madam Minister. I want to know: How many children from the 1st grade were on Day 1. 12. 2015 applied for school lunch? How many children from the 2nd grade were registered for lunch before the law was amended and how many after the law was enacted? That's what I'm interested in for 2nd and 3rd grade. How many were reported before, how many now that they received the subsidy? How many children are in all primary schools from the 2nd grade and the 3rd grade? What is the total number of beneficiaries of these two classes? How much money has been spent from the subsidy budget for the 2nd and 3rd income classes so far? How much do you expect to be used at the annual level by the end of the year? Since we have also given you these questions in writing, I would like to ask you the exact answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u229	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Moon, for the question. Dear Members and Members! In the introduction, I would say that school diet is governed by the School Diet Act, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport. We are governed by the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, i.e. the Competence of Giving or Dosing; we place families in the income class and on the basis of this, the schools then issue accounts; that is the law. I asked the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport if they could provide me with the data you wanted. I'm afraid not all of them. The Ministry of Education responds that they did not collect data, do not have separate data; they only have data where the state pays subsidies, so I do not have for the 2nd and 3rd classes where there are no subsidies. But before we talk about these numbers and subsidies, let's say what's the arrangement. All pupils who are regularly educated are eligible for lunch subsidies, are registered for lunch and meet the following criteria under the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources: they do not reach a family member of more than EUR 537; this is the threshold. For lunch subsidies, as you said, the subsidy is in three different classes. Those who have up to 18 % of the net average wage per family member, i.e. 182,38 euros, have the full subsidy; and these were 17 thousand 118 children in December 2015; while in January 2016 16 thousand 493, February 2016 16 thousand 710 and March 2016 16 thousand 883. If you want the amount of the subsidy, for example December 2017 for these 17 thousand 118 children the amount of the subsidy amounted to EUR 647 thousand 670 and some more, January 2016 694 thousand 232, February 2016 526 thousand 867, March 2016 786 thousand and more. You can also get information on all of this. Then it's for the 2nd grade, where it's 70 percent of the amount of the subsidy. Here are the eligible children who are studying, who are also registered for lunch, up to the amount of income per family member net between €182.38 and €303.97. So we have data, but they've only given data for a period since the subsidy. In January 2016, these children were 5 000 149; the amount of the subsidy paid by the State was EUR 346 000 596. February 2016 – 5 000 303 students, the amount of the subsidy was EUR 274 000 683; in March 2016, such children were 5 000 465, the amount of the subsidy was EUR 414 thousand 313. Then the figures for the last eligible class are 30-36% of the net average wage, between EUR 303,97 and EUR 364,76; thus 40% are eligible for the subsidy. Data for January 2016, there were 9 000 492 children, costing EUR 146 000 522; in February 2016, such children were 9 000 902, which cost EUR 113 000 744. In March, such children were 10 thousand 152, the amount of the subsidy was 171,000 EUR 980. In December 2015, 128 thousand 145 students were applied for lunch and in January 2016 121 thousand 119. They do not have data in each class prior to the entry into force of the law because they do not collect such data. They have data on how many subsidies there are and how many invoices are being issued. That's what we got from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u231	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you. I'd like to ask you one more time if you could say: How many children in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd grades are in primary schools? Now you've told us how many were applied for lunch. But I want to know how many kids are in these classes. And the other thing is, in the end, I didn't follow you very well: Do you have any idea how much money has been spent so far from the subsidy budget, and how much do you expect it to be by the end of the year? I'm interested in the realisation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u233	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u234	Unfortunately, at this point, I have no information as to how many students there are in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd income classes. This information will be provided to you after the meeting itself, including all of this information. However, I will have to ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for this assessment of the financial resources, because they actually provide this money and also have all the data. Social work centres are only a single entry point that they measure, as is the case with all rights that depend on the material situation of the family. In fact, they assign schools on the basis of where the individual student’s family is classified, then provide accounts and also provide the amount of the subsidy directly to schools and therefore have all the data available. If it suits you, I can ask the Minister if they provide this information, and we can also give you a written reply to all that you asked for in this supplement regarding children in the first, second and third classes. That's what we have at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u235	If it is not for the general debate, you probably agree, they will also provide you in writing. Mr Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. To dejane jedan, which is an excusable percentage. I ask you, do you want a written or oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u236	An oral response. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues! My question concerns the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia regarding the last frost and snow in the month of April in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that agriculture is not in an easy position in the year we are in. The warm weather in most of April has, of course, accelerated vegetation and nature, especially in terms of agricultural crops, fruit farming, wine growing. This disaster that struck these orchards, vineyards, and fields at the end of April caused great damage to agriculture. I therefore ask the Minister for Agriculture: What measures are envisaged and will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, as a result in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? With what help, financially and in all other areas, will they help all those fruits, vineyards, and farmers in the face of this disaster? As I said in the introduction, agriculture is not in an easy situation; it would not be right for fruit growers, wine growers and farmers to remain alone, to face this difficult situation. But what is worrying is that every day it is found that the damage will be very severe. Let me also say that I spoke to someone across the border in neighbouring Austria during the weekend, but I must admit that it was positive for me because there the ministry or government is already preparing a financial measure that will cover this damage to the Austrian fruit farmer, the winegrower and the farmer per hectare. I therefore ask the distinguished minister: What measures will the Ministry take, and consequently the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to assist fruit growers, vineyard farmers and farmers in the month of April? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u237	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, as you know, in these days you have made public certain information regarding the Law on tax clearance of accounts. You explain to them that the project has been successful, that we have picked up several virgins. You have never told us before how much a complex project has cost us, how much it actually costs to maintain the IT system, how much our IT systems are actually burdened, how many different repeaters when it comes to wireless broadcasting. I am still asking you for the last time, do you realize that Slovenia is not only a company, that Slovenia is not only the capital of Ljubljana, which has now received an additional 300 million euros for various projects by the state; it is that Slovenia also consists of rural areas. I also come from such an area – Slovenian mountains, where many societies operate, many smaller producers. Smaller farmers, medium-sized farmers, many farmers who are already retired have many problems with the introduction of tax registers. I've already listed some real problems in the field, in the markets, I've told you how many times tax bills are due to overloading systems of cancellation, say at different meetings and under different weather conditions. How to get away from the market is the whole number of people buying from the farmer. For one product which is a basic activity, it does not need a tax box; for an additional activity it needs a tax box. Then maybe two members of a family, one going to the market, I don't know, in Maribor, the other in Mursko Sobota, needs two tax checkouts and so on. However, I would like to say that I am being approached by, say, the Association of Retired Churchmen, who collects a few ten euros for a trip and then needs a tax box and maybe gets out of the budget of the municipality, I don't know, 300 to 500 euros. Let me say that pensioners' societies are also very important in rural areas because of the alienation of people, they are linked to different projects, as they are older for older people and so on. And that takes extra motivation from all these people. As you said last time, and also argued that there are no other solutions to at least these smaller people, as we know, we have many small farms to at least exempt these people from this tax, from this law. I'm still asking: Is your opinion similar, so we all hit everyone the same, everyone needs a tax box? The costs for these smaller companies are also abnormally high in relation to the revenues of these companies. Be aware, Mr Minister, that smaller societies are the driving force of the nation, we can also say cultural and other development in the countryside, fostering a number of events. And I'm still asking you: Is your opinion similar and no change in this area? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u239	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Commissioner Franz Breznik, Ministry of Finance, has drawn up the Law on the Tax attestation of Accounts and has followed in this preparation the objective of establishing a single system based on the mandatory clearance of accounts for all debtors who are bound by the rules governing value added tax; except for certain exceptions where there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In the preparation of the bill, initiatives taken in the context of public examination of the bill were also followed to the greatest extent possible, following the determination of the narrowest possible range of debtors for whom an exemption from the obligation to confirm accounts is provided. This was a requirement in public treatment by those who participated. In establishing the system of tax clearance of accounts, the problem of taxpayers issuing fewer invoices has also been specifically addressed. The debtors can also use linked accounts in place of electronic account issuing devices or issue accounts via a free online application Mini tax box on the eTax portal. The principle of equal treatment was taken into account as a basic principle in determining the set of undertakings. The rules governing value added tax treat activities carried out within societies in the same way as in other legal forms. The activities carried out on farms as complementary activities or as part of companies are also treated equally. The additional activities on the farm are activities that can also be carried out in the context of non-agricultural companies, and the holders of complementary activities on the farm represent direct competition for companies. For this reason, the same rules should apply to holders of complementary activities in the farm and companies carrying out the same activity in order to ensure that the principle of equal treatment of taxable persons is respected and implemented in the same or comparable situation. In addition, it should be noted that in the event of an exemption from the obligation to tax confirmation of accounts for companies and holders of complementary activities on farms, all debtors would still be subject to the obligation to issue invoices in accordance with the rules governing value added tax. The tax clearance obligation was introduced on 2 January of this year. The first analysis on this basis of the data obtained from the value added tax accounts and reports was presented today, as you said. However, a comprehensive analysis of the effects of the introduction of tax clearance of accounts will be possible in 2017 when all accounts of value added tax taxpayers, as well as corporate income tax and activity income tax, will be paid. At that time, an analysis and assessment of the effects of the tax clearance system will be made, which will in fact be based on good data. There is also a proposal for a new law on the identification of cadastral income, which also provides important administrative simplifications to certain groups of debtors who need to identify income for their activities in the current system based on the management of accounting; it is now the basis for regulating the flat-rate determination of cadastral income also for special intensive cultures such as strawberry, asparagus, snails and the like. The draft law also provides for the regulation of further administrative simplifications under the income system, which will allow for the production of basic agricultural products to be included in the flat-rate method of determining income. With this cadastral income, we will exclude certain VAT debtors and be taxed at the flat rate, thus also falling out of the tax clearance of the accounts. In summary, tax clearance of accounts is prescribed for all taxpayers who are obliged to issue VAT bills, except for very rare exceptions. The law provides special solutions for low-trafficking debtors. The proposed new cadastral income law will provide for flat-rate taxation for certain, particularly intensive cultures and thus will not have to be used for tax purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u241	Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to remind you once again that in small municipalities, from which I come alone, from Lenart, Benedict, Sveta Trojica, Sveta Juri and similar municipalities of Slovenski Goric, people also find that many small traditional products will disappear through public tribunals, which we had on the subject of agriculture, especially from your area, the introduction of tax registers. This will also slowly lose our domestic trade, traditional – baking bread, desserts, and cooking jams, juices, and all that also applies to our cultural heritage. As I see it, you didn't foresee this in some solutions where people would somehow be provided through a lump. All of this, people find that 15 kilometers across the border in Austria is going on – and it's going well. They point out that smaller farms, smaller farmers, smaller societies are not the ones that would be most in breach of legislation. But it is also a motivational aspect of these people, who have very low incomes, some are retired, which is their main motivation for work and also the revitalization of each place. Every event, a municipal holiday, as you know, you have stands, you have a whole range of people who do something else that preserve traditional dishes, traditional products and everything. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, this will all go away, it won't happen to young people, young people leave the countryside, we have a big problem. In the countryside, the age structure is already catastrophic, it is getting older, people are leaving these parts of Slovenia. The introduction of tax registers in these companies has also led to an even greater spread among people. Therefore, once again, we have introduced that the tax registers should be abolished to consider the flat-rate taxation of all these factors in the countryside that should be exempted from this Act on tax clearance of accounts. That's why I'm begging and predicting [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u243	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, you have the floor to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna say there's too much fear here, but it could be much smaller. Of course, the countryside is empty everywhere, not just with us. This is a natural phenomenon, but we will try not to accelerate this process in the field of tax receipts. In preparation, amendments to the Regulation on the implementation of the Added Value Tax Act intending to relieve certain smaller debtors of the obligation to issue invoices with a view to administrative simplification. And then, because they are burdened with billing obligations, it also means that the tax clearance obligations of the invoices are also a cashier. The proposal to amend Article 143 of this Regulation concerns an extension of the supply chain and of those not subject to the obligation to issue an account. The aim of the proposal is to relieve the obligation to issue accounts for groups of taxable persons with a small amount of taxable goods and services, such as up to EUR 5,000 per year; and for those liable to organise informal events aimed at raising funds for their operations and meeting the requirements of Article 143 of the Rules. Among these undertakings are mainly voluntary companies with a lower volume of traffic, which are perfecting certain conditions in the rules. As a result, these taxpayers will also be burdened by the tax clearance obligations of the accounts because they will not be liable to VAT on the issue of invoices. This Regulation is for me to issue and I am also considering amending this Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u245	Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u246	Yes, you have already announced, Mr. President. I want us to hold a debate on this. I think some of Desus' colleagues will also be interested in pensioners who have major problems. I think you were questioned, or maybe you were misled when you adopted this law. I think that this flat-rate taxation should also be included for the companies of pensioners and other factors in the countryside. Mr. Secretary, you're saying that someone who's exempt from tax clearance can have this block and write it out. You know that this is a transitional matter and that within two years everyone will have to have a tax box. I don't know if you know there's an extremely poor internet in the countryside, extremely low speed. When wireless internet is used extensively, including for tax certification of accounts, rural saturation is also a wireless internet, which is mostly the only window in the world of the Internet or connections; an even worse condition due to your law for small craftsmen, such as Slovenian Gorica. This is a whole series of phenomena involving each other and exacerbates the whole type of activity. Mr Minister, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, those of you from the countryside, that you will support my proposal for a debate in Parliament in the vote, so that we can at least make these minor problems clear that we can find some solutions on the basis of example – I think that Austria has such an example. People are exempt. Today, the Minister made a very sad statement to me when he said that the natural phenomenon was that people were leaving the countryside. Mr Minister, this is not a natural phenomenon, it is a phenomenon that politics has capitulated over rural areas, that we have completely centralised ourselves. We need decentralisation, and at least the countryside could have at least a few such solutions, where people would be more motivated to stay in the countryside and keep it for us. On the other hand, every day we are full of words about healthy, organic food. Where will we get it, Mr Minister, if not from the countryside, if not from smaller producers, from smaller chains, which will unite into cooperatives and so on. You have made these conditions difficult for them, this is an additional nail in the coffin to reduce our self-sustainment, to reduce society's business even less, to make people even less motivated, including those who are in the third lifetime. And that's bad, Mr. Secretary. It's a typical bureaucracy and I don't agree to this bureaucracy. Therefore, I ask you, fellow Members of the Coalition, to support me and to hold a proper debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u247	Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 May 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To dean jedan, who is excusedly absent. I'm asking, do you want a written or oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr President, I want an oral response at the next meeting. I also ask Minister Dejan Jewan about the subject of taxation of small agricultural holdings. I know this is the primary task of the Ministry of Finance. I'm asking: Why does the Ministry of Agriculture avoid proposing to the Ministry of Finance that small farms be taxed flatly, as we know the cases in our neighbours in Austria and in other neighbours? Because the way small farms are taxed in Slovenia is so much a disaster. We know that in larger farms there is no problem, no problem, because all large farms are more or less registered as a share holding or other form, so that there is no such problem. Because in small farms, in small farms, the country actually has all the exact data from GERC, where they are actually visible in a specific plot for a particular culture, what small farm activities are carried out. In short, all the data are available to evaluate annual income, cultural value and ultimately work in the field of one year. Imagine a farm that manages or has several complementary activities registered. What about the registration of premises that need to be separated? The premises must be separated for the cashiers themselves or even that there must be more cash registers in the case of multiple registered ancillary activities. In short, it's anomalies, it's actually an administration, because small farms have to deal with basic activities, it's agriculture; it's not that they're dealing with an administration that actually doesn't bring a whole lot more to the state treasury. However, this administrative work, which farmers actually have to do, is being reduced. If we look at it from a very simple point of view. A lady from the Upper Savinja Valley told me that you should explain to the government and those operational ministers that the stairs are moving from top to bottom; not from bottom to bottom, what the government is actually doing. And that's actually [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u249	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. In the United Left, we have been pointing out the issue of Kobilarna Lipica and Lipica tourism since the beginning of this mandate. We called a few board meetings and asked quite a few oral and written questions. More than anything has happened to the deaf until the last meeting, when it was decided that the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture should be invited by the Government to inform the Committee within 6 months of the implementation of all proposals for the further organisation of the Kobilar Lipica, which the IGRT forwarded to the Committees 25. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fact is, the government has not provided the committees with anything. At that time, a decision was also taken by the coalition to propose to the government committees to prepare by 28 at the latest. 2. 2016 Amendment to the Law. It happened that the government failed to draft the law because the two ministers could not comply, so two coalition parties proposed it. It is the position of all governments, including all previous governments, that the ruling political parties have amended the Lipica Act in order to ensure certain benefits. It was also heard on the last committee when the latest law was presented that everything worked in Lipica until Lipica passed under the state. The law was written because Lipica was then supposed to compete for entry into Unesco; then politics continued to pass it and somehow modified the laws. Since one of the three main solutions is the amendment of the law mentioned by the proposer is the change of the competent ministry, so it goes to your ministry, and since I am sure that it is not all the same as it should be, I ask you: Will you submit the horse to the tourist work? What are your plans for the Lipica plant, since it cannot carry out all market activities under the Public Offices Act? Do you already have a strategy, a vision of management of Kobilarna Lipica and, consequently, with the adoption of the novel yet market activity? If so, then I ask you to briefly tell us what this strategy is. And if you don't have it yet, please tell me when you'll prepare it. How come you didn't prepare it and introduce it to us before writing this novel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I have one question. The minister will probably answer, but the questions are mixed. Your question with Lipica was meant to be added; now we should ask the Minister about TTIP and CETA. Here you are, Minister Restoring.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u252	To Lipico!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u253	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u254	Dear President, Ambassador Violet Tomić, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. Currently, there are two legal entities in the Kobilarna Lipica area, Lipica Tourism, d.o.o., and the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica, which carry out market and sales activities without cooperation. They have also been in business for a long time with losses, and the number of visitors to the public service has fallen from 100,000 to 77 000 since 2011. By comparison, there were 280 thousand visitors in 1985. Inadequate financial resources for the public service are already having consequences, which are also evident in the field of horse riding. At this point, I must stress that only a healthy horse and herd are prerequisites for successful tourism activities in Lipica. This is particularly true on horseback, and it is crucial that tourism activities in the company today do not develop and achieve the results that they could achieve. Members have also found the situation in Lipica to be worrying. In November 2015, due to the irregular situation, you convened a meeting of the Committee of the National Economic and Agriculture Assembly. 2. 2016 prepare a proposal for an amendment to the Law on Kobalna Lipica in order to achieve uniformity and transfer of powers from the agricultural to the Ministry of Economy. Within a period of time, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has drawn up a proposal for a law in which the Office of the Government of Law and the Ministry of Agriculture expressed disagreement about the applicant because we are not responsible for this proposal. Therefore, in March this step was taken by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer and tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kobilana Lipica. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this law was positive. The positive opinion has not only been given by the Government; the proposal has so far been supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 80th regular session. 4. 2016, Committee of the National Economic Assembly at its 15th session. 5. 2016, Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance at its 51st session. 4. 2016, State Council at its 40th session. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Everyone expressed the view that the proposal was a bill to support. In addition to these proposals, they support the Municipality of Sežana – the proposal was supported unanimously without one member against it; the Civil Initiative for Lipica with the support of all four Kraški municipalities, the Trade Union of Restaurant and Tourism Workers and the Slovenian State Holding. MGRT's position is clear. In addition to Bled and Postojna Cave, Lipica is the third tourist destination of Slovenia in the world. Our main objective is to ensure a more cost-effective operation of Lipica, in this light we estimate that fundamental changes in the management, management and organisation of Kobilarna Lipica are needed. Given the need for activities to a large extent within the competence of the tourism ministry, MGRT is, at this stage, the most appropriate to regulate the situation; therefore, we are prepared to take responsibility. The careful and responsible treatment of Kobilna Lipica has already been demonstrated by the provision of €5.6 million for the reconstruction of public infrastructure in 2014 and 2015. And if I touch on the substantive changes in the law, the bill allows the public institution to carry out market activities, this is impossible in the current law. Lipica is a single, rounded area owned by one owner per cent – the Republic of Slovenia, whose activities are closely related. Once market activity is enabled, there will no longer be a need for real estate for market activity, i.e. it leads to conflict situations and contradictions between primary and complementary activities. However, the separate method of managing the bookkeeping provided for by the law prevents the spillover of funds between individual activities. The transfer of real competence from ICGP to IGRT will facilitate the implementation of planned and necessary activities. The current situation in both legal entities needs to be addressed mainly from a management and business perspective. Here I would like to point out that the transfer of actual competences envisaged by the proposal for a law is not contrary to the Law on State Administration. Under no circumstances will the horse be subjected to tourism. Lipica means horse, cultural historical monument – and these two are tourism. Tourism, which you are now mentioning, is only an additional tourist activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You've said a lot of things we already know. You have chronologically listed the genetics of this law. I was interested in a vision. You didn't tell me what that vision was like. You have to understand that there is a lot of fear about Kobilna Lipica in order to avoid privatisation. That's why I'm interested in your opinion: How justified are these fears? 'Cause then I'll hold you to that word if he turns around otherwise. I also want to know: How do you feel that Director Kobilarna's V.D. signed a joint agreement last week with the Scottish Caves and the Pivka Military Museum? As far as we know, recently Lipica has somehow floated out of the worst red numbers, it is said that the trend is improving. I want to know: How do you feel about that? The local community has given its support because everyone wants a change. It is clear to all of us, here in the National Assembly, including all the interested and employees in Lipica, that the thing like this does not work. They want change, but for the better. So now it is quite a responsibility for you to say: How are you going to turn this around for the better? I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you for the supplementary question. Once again, I must say that the existing situation is unsustainable. We have two state-owned entities that are at war with each other. On the Committee of the National Assembly, you could see the photographic material of an unacceptable event. It is also extremely important to me that the proposed amendments to the law will not interfere with and affect the field of breeding and breeding of horses and the protection of cultural heritage. This one stays in the hands of the profession. With proper, more cost-effective management and development, we thus preserve and protect the cultural heritage of Lipica. But the point is that the horse and cultural heritage will "work" for tourism; not be subordinated. And you're the center of the tourist offer. At the same time, we are also developing economic activities that will first and foremost valorise the cultural heritage of Lipica. The risk of unlawful State aid taking into account all the rules; this risk is not. Too much economic activity in a public institution – There is no limit to the scope of economic activity in the Offices Act. Since the establishment of 1996 it has also carried out tourism activities. The share of income was 70 : 30 in favour of public work. And I believe there are no other inconsistencies. In any case, I must say that at this first stage both of you will join together in a public institution precisely because we are not even thinking about privatising this part. However, we believe that the public institution and the economic part of this area in Lipica must make money. Today, we have a situation where the state invests between €2.8 million and €3 million annually, and the tourist section has lost for several years; and we want to end it. The fears that are, however, are now being enhanced primarily by the parties that will have to take responsibility for what has happened and who will have to say good-bye to the leadership of the policy that has brought us to shame in Lipica. We want to continue with the merger and with the staff who will be able to turn things around, to carry out the programme that we have, as far as the business itself is concerned, mainly done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mag. Anže Logar – he is not; Mr Daniel Krivec – is not. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u260	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting! My key question today will be, what, when and what new chimney legislation. We have all known history since 2003 since those last meetings of the government led by Toneto Ropa, how the chimney system has changed, how the desires have been regulated and changed. Last year we also had one attempt to ensure that this system, which, including the Court of Auditors, has also been found by the National Assembly on several occasions that there are many irregularities and problematic cases, needs to be regulated; areas such as records, supervision need to be regulated. It is crucial that we decide in Slovenia what kind of system we want. Whether we want a licensing system, a completely licensed system; whether we want to maintain a system like today, that is, a system with concessions; or maybe some new system. We all know that we already had a system that had municipalities in charge of chimney services. Last week, it came to the public that after last week's failed attempt, there was a re-establishment of an idea of what and how to regulate the area of chimneys. If my information is correct, one of the attempts is this government law. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What is the difference between last year's attempt by the Ministry and the current attempt by the Ministry to regulate the area of the chimney service? What information do you have about concessionaires trying to bring a bill into the National Assembly? When preparing chimney legislation, are there also regulations, regulations, regulations, even price lists being drawn up? Who is involved in this law? How will you resolve the issue that those who are part of the problem of chimney service will not want to be part of the solution? In short, those poor concessionaires who should be excluded would not be the key players in changing chimney legislation. Dear Minister, I'm also interested in: Who are the main actors in the Ministry that are preparing new legislation, in addition to all other actors involved in the drafting of this law? When will the new legislation come to life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Irene Maycen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Ambassador Tomaž Lisc, for the question raised. From last December until May, the chimneys law has been in operation. The concept of some solutions has also led to cross-cutting coordination. It is true, however, that we are maintaining the licensing system, as it was set up at the time of the extension of concessions, the EviDim database has been filled; we find that over 80%. It is true, however, that some concessionaires have failed to fulfil their legal obligations to complete this record; and these concessionaires have not been granted concessions. At that time, we have a number of criminal investigations at the Ministry, which is what the concessions are doing, including some criminal investigations. I wouldn't hide it. It is true that we cooperate with these services and provide them with the required information. This indicates about what you yourself as a Member have stated — who, how, what he wants to handle this service. When we are talking about the differences between last year and this year's prepared proposal, which was submitted today in the government procedure, it is mainly that there is no longer a declaration by the owners of the combustion plant whose licensed contractor someone has chosen. Also in the case of smokers who obtain a licence, the obligation to pass a professional examination is deleted, partly by the execution of supervision and, in particular, by, I emphasise, by strengthening inspection. The material will show that we have a locational, that is, after eight regional units of inspection posts, we anticipate one inspector per inspector, assuming two for Ljubljana according to the size of the area. However, the period of compulsory supplementary training has also been amended. The new proposal exempts a number of transitional provisions which were included in last year's law because it was intended to live as soon as possible. As far as prices are concerned, we keep the highest price level as it is now. In terms of implementation, smokers will obtain licences in administrative units, which is a simplification in this part. On the contrary, I hope that it is mainly a change that the owner of the combustion plant is now responsible for its inspection. So far it has been different, the concessionaire for his area also responsible for the combustion plants owned by others that they have been examined; now it is passed on to the owner. And the regulations will set out that new combustion plants, modern for several years, will not be inspected, as is the case for vehicles; and then the obligation to inspect them will pass in a later period. Following the adoption of the Government, of course, I expect that the smokers law will be in the procedure of the National Assembly at the July meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u264	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. I must say, I am positively surprised if the real story is happening in this direction, as you yourself have predicted. I think things are going in a European, in the right direction. Congratulations! I must say that I am pleased that, after many years, it is obvious that officials at the Ministry, in cooperation with the concessionaires, were afraid to regulate the area of records; if the point holds that 80% of this is arranged, it is great. I don't know if I understand exactly what it's like to have transitional provisions. I'm very interested in: Is it going to be date one? 1. 2017 that cut-off date when this new situation is to come to life, will it take place in a transitional period? Another thing I might be a little bit more interested in: How will this inspection work more specifically? Will it somehow be different between looking at devices and measuring, or will everything in the domain still be smokers; or will different people, with different knowledge, be allowed to do this work? Did smokers, in short, concessionaires, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce participate in this proposal; or did you invite civil initiatives to participate; in view of the meeting held last December at the Infrastructure Committee? And, Madam Secretary, the key question is: Do you have enough votes politically to allow such a draft law to finally come through the Assembly of the State; that the law would not only be coalitionly coordinated and voted, but also by the opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u266	Thank you. I can tell you that we at the Ministry were looking for a solution to the effect of law 1. 1. 2017; however, as I have already said, all the procedures in the National Assembly, where it certainly depends on Members, what comments may be made and what time period these transitional provisions will be adopted. Coalition coordination is, of course, taking place, depending on the opposition Members, whether they will join these solutions. I'll be happy if at least some people recognize this solution as good. It is true that last year, when the first draft was being prepared, there was a lot of cooperation with concessionaires and also with civil initiatives. We have long explained that each side is strong with each other; concessionaires defend concessions and civil initiatives without regulation. We believe that clean air is a clean environment; we know that with PM10 particles in many places we have problems taking care of clean chimneys and cleaning chimneys is also important for fire safety and health. I think we're on the right track for this arrangement. It is true, however, that in Europe alone, this topic is left to the market, and all other countries have it regulated. It is usually at a country level, not in the sense of such a solution as we are looking for in Slovenia. It is also true that, as I have already said, at the very time that we have concluded these preparations, the concessionaires are also helping each other "very much". But I'm sure anyone who gets a license to get a license is gonna do their job on the ground. As usual, this is also largely about trust between us, the owners of these devices, and chimneys. In this part, I am convinced that the concessionaire, who has already been friendly to his clients, will have the opportunity to carry out his work further. In particular, problems will be faced by those whose operation was not entirely in line with existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Since the Minister is absent, please also identify yourself until the way in which the reply is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and both ministers who have remained! It's been a while since we heard the latest news about the second rail track project. That is why the time has come again for me to raise some of these questions, which are undoubtedly very important for the coast, the region and Slovenia. And that's why I've got a few questions listed, and I'm gonna start with the first. I want to know: What's going on with the extraction track? Are all the complaints successfully resolved, did we get the contractor? When will work on the draw track begin? When's he gonna start digging the first bagel? The next issue, which is also very interesting, is the second-track review. This too has been dragging for some time, and the various drivers, as it seems from the media, are between 90 and 900 000, which I think has been shown here already, are a little too wide for all of these providers, which is quite unusual. What is the stage of this review, whether all facts are taken into account, and if time periods or deadlines are followed? We know that since the contractor's acceptance, the appeal is possible again, and then he's back on track. In addition to all of this delaying and these appeal deadlines, there are then three months before this review is produced; which means very briefly, since we are now in May, for sure by the end of the year, if not longer. We're kind of running out of time here, too. The third question is: What is happening with the establishment of this project company called 2TKK? At what stage, when will the framework work, what steps are being taken in this direction? We know that there are actually quite a few stakeholders; in terms of a country such as Hungary and all others. The next question concerns the development of a second-track funding model. There are also relatively open cases here with regard to tenderers, whether there is a public-private partnership, or whether there is another option. At what stage is the development of a second-track funding model? And finally, I want to know: Do we also have any response to the letter sent by the Council of Workers of Koper? So much for once. But I'd like a written answer if I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you for your words; again, the same Member, the same Minister – two different questions. This time, I'm going to ask you a question about secret trade agreements. In response to the oral question at the 17th regular session, you provided some very important information on the secret trade and investment agreements between TTIP and CETA. Among other things, you briefly explained the so-called temporary validity of the CETA agreement, which raises many further questions and concerns. At the same time, you said that the legally purified text of the CETA agreement placed the European Commission's full competence, which is extremely controversial and, in my opinion, contrary to the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Since these are agreements that will have a key impact on democracy and development and on the lives of all citizens and citizens in general, it is extremely important that we obtain as much information as possible and take note of the content and the formal circumstances of the trade-investment agreements. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, In practical terms, what does the provision on the so-called provisional application of the purified text of the CETA Agreement mean? Does temporary validity mean validity for an indefinite period of time; for example, if ratification is refused in one of the Member States? Is such a provision on provisional validity also provided for in the TTIP Agreement? Is your answer that this is a mixed competence only in the investment part of the text, in line with the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, where the position of the Republic of Slovenia is recorded to be in mixed competence agreements? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u272	Mr. President-in-Office. Mrs Violeta Tomić, thank you very much for the question. I must say that I will be happy to answer because I am still under the impression of Friday's Council of Ministers meeting, where we have dealt with this issue. Even more so, I have to say that I am now easier to breathe on this subject, because the opinion of all 28 countries and ministers around all these topics on CETA and TTIP is as uniform as possible. That's why I'm gonna try to get these things straight. At the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs, held on 13 May, the Ministers of the Member States of the European Union made it clear to the European Commission that CETA is a mixed agreement and should take into account the negotiating mandate and the debate on the summit when preparing the proposal for the signing and provisional application of CETA. Since the question of the temporary application of the CETA trade agreement and the consequences of non-ratification in national parliaments for the validity of the agreement is an important legal issue, this issue was addressed at the meeting of trade ministers to the legal service of the Council of the European Union. We got an oral response there, but we still get a written answer, so we'll give you this in writing when we get it. I would like to point out, however, that the question of the legal nature of the trade agreements and the scope of the exclusive competence of the European Union in the field of trade will also be affected by the Court of Justice of the European Union's decision in the case of 2015; the procedure is in its initial stage. In the TTIP agreement, the provisions governing the entry into force of the Agreement have not yet been drawn up, so I cannot give you a definitive reply at this time. As Slovenia is also in favour of the view that the TTIP must have a mixed agreement, if the issue of provisional use is raised, it will defend the same positions as in the case of CETA. I would like to say that the answer is in line with the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union. The Trade Agreement, which contains provisions which fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union and those which are either partly within the competence of the Member States and of the European Union or under the exclusive competence of the Member States, is a mixed agreement. The investment chapter does not fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union and its inclusion in the trade agreement means that it is a mixed agreement. Under the Treaty of Lisbon, Article 207 was transferred to the European Union only to direct foreign investment, not to full investment. And now the CETA. It is clearly a mixed agreement and therefore the text of the agreement must be adapted accordingly. Slovenia cannot support the ICS bilateral investment court, Slovenia can only agree to the provisional application of the CETA agreement, which will be limited to those provisions of the agreement which are traditionally and unequivocally within the exclusive competence of the European Union, i.e. without an investment chapter. The same applies to the area of sustainable development of intellectual property protection. If the application of the provisions of the CETA Agreement, which is solely within the competence of the European Union, is to be decided on temporarily, all Member States must ratify those provisions. However, the national assembly must complete the ratification procedure of CETA before the provisions of the agreement, which are not within the exclusive competence of the European Union, are applied. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia cannot only confirm something that has already been used in practice. In practice, provisions already within the exclusive competence of the European Union apply. The National Assembly must confirm all the provisions of the Agreement. However, those provisions, which fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union, may apply before the ratification of the agreement or provisions in the national parliaments. These things, as I have now listed, I have said on the Council of Europe and are essentially the same as the positions of a large majority of the 28 members; they are only in nuances. However, the nine main positions of Slovenia before continuing negotiations before the TTIP would be presented below.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. In many cases it is very difficult to distinguish whether it is commercial or investment provisions. Moreover, it would probably be only right for agreements to be fully in mixed competence. More than that, not only is it decided by national parliaments, but it is also up to citizens and citizens to decide on this because of the transfer of sovereignty. We agree that this is about giving up the work of sovereignty, not only if the agreements are not ratified in the national parliaments; but the agreement itself is already a waiver or transfer of sovereignty; through the international system of justice for investors, regulatory cooperation or congestion clauses and so on. In response to the 17th regular session, you said that the study showed that there would in fact be no direct positive economic effects, so the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will take an active approach to informing businesses of the opportunities offered by the agreement. I want to know: What concrete opportunities are these opportunities for Slovenian companies to be allowed by these agreements? I hope that you will not say that it will benefit trading partners and will indirectly offer more opportunities. Malmström said that Slovenia will be able to operate through Germany, which means that it will be quite a dumping for our producers. Of course, the 28 partner countries you mentioned have different interests. The large ones will be able to operate directly, while Slovenia will have no positive profit here, and the negative will be very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Restoršek will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u276	First of all, I must say that, with the Treaty of Lisbon — what I have already said — we have transferred part of our sovereignty to the European Commission and will not be decided by our Parliament. Our Parliament will decide on matters of mixed nature and this has now been clearly and loudly confirmed at this session. First around the benefits – hold. At the moment, Slovenia has a large part of its trade with the United States indirectly via Germany. Not so we don't know how to sell ourselves, but indirectly through our supply chain, if you want, I'm putting my car cluster on the line. However, the fact is that, and if progress is made in this matter, our economy can make greater use of trade opportunities directly with the United States. But I would like to present the nine main positions of Slovenia before the negotiations continue, which I also presented on Friday. There can be no doubt that the TTIP will be a mixed agreement, first. We require specific treatment of sensitive agricultural products such as meat, dairy products and eggs. Regulatory cooperation must clearly and unequivocally reflect the application of the precautionary principle. The level of existing standards must at least be maintained. This includes, of course, standards in the field of safe food and sanitary and phytosanitary rules. We do not want any changes to the legislative framework in the field of genetically modified organisms in European work. In Slovenia, we strongly oppose the cultivation of genetically modified organisms; this is why we believe that negotiations on the regulatory chapter are not going in the right direction. Slovenia opposes the inclusion of the investment chapter and the bilateral investment court of ICS in the agreement. And also, the American federal states must be involved in the negotiations. We want an ambitious and balanced agreement. Nevertheless, I must say that I consider that great progress has been made in transparency. If you remember, after the previous consideration of this issue here in the National Assembly, or on this issue that you mention, we have come to reading rooms — even in our ministry — and it is unimaginable that today we could conclude this agreement in a way that all matters will continue to be kept secret. The issue is in terms of transparency in Europe at this level, that this is virtually impossible. And I am optimistic that we will come to the right conclusion of the negotiations. But not at the expense of content.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, do you request a debate in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. Commissioner Malmström also said that these were one of the most transparent negotiations in the history of the European Union, which led me to one strong doubt as to how transparent the other negotiations were. We know that civil society has forced us to come to these deaf rooms in the first place and we will be able to look at this content. As far as we know, the Dutch Greenpeace has found – unfortunately, we know most through whistleblowers, despite this transparency – that the United States is primarily interested in food products, GMOs and lowering food standards. In fact, they condition this trade you mentioned, with cars, by abolishing the precautionary principle. That is why these negotiations are so intense and are taking so long. And we are concerned that, because of this interest in the automotive industry, Germany would not be able to give up on this very important segment of human nutrition. In addition, millions of jobs on both sides of the Atlantic are at risk. So many questions are being raised and, in fact, there are many key issues that depend on the quality of the people on both sides of the Atlantic. And if we focus on Europe, especially our standards will fall considerably, because American standards are so much lower than ours here. I do not think that Members and Members, but the public, are sufficiently informed about this, so I propose that this matter be discussed at the next meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 May, in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The Sports Act was supposed to be passed in the first half of last year, but we had an unfortunate story with ministers who were more involved with their authors' fees and their diplomas, and nothing happened. Last year at the end of June, I asked you a question about when, how and in particular what kind of Law on Sport we can expect. And you said, in the summer, we're going to finish up a little bit, and in September, there's going to be a public debate, and then we can expect it soon in the National Assembly. Since there was nothing until the end of the year, I asked you again at the December session last year what and how. And you said, "For 15. 12. The Expert Council has been convened on which we will finally agree on some more substantive and technical details." Again, six months later, we find the news in the media: "The sports law dreams like a smoldering thing." We call it a critter. And I'm interested, Madam Secretary, in: What happens to legislation in the field of sports? For it is not only the Sports Act, which is very important not only for the ministry, the Olympic Committees, for Slovenian athletes, but also for local communities. I also want to know: What about the law on doping in sports? Indirectly, you are also part of this system that is preparing the Ski Law, which was rejected at one of the previous meetings of another committee, because the Skiing Association was not even invited to participate. And I'm interested, Madam Secretary, in: When can we expect specific marriage proposals in the National Assembly? What will be the laws involved in these laws? Above all, I am interested in the Sports Act: What does this draft or final version give to local communities and local sports associations; on the other hand, what does it do to local communities and local sports? I really hope that we will get this law on sport as soon as possible, that we will not have problems after we adopt the state budget and also the municipal budgets, that we will not post festivals or reverse the municipal rules in this area, or that we will not suffer from municipal calls for sport. Unfortunately, local communities are another of the last defenders, at least local support to local sports companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u282	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Minister-in-Charge! The Ministry forwarded the proposal for a new Sports Act to the public on 28 December 2015, as we announced in previous explanations of your questions. The public hearing concluded on 8 February 2016, the first public hearing. On such important and difficult laws, more treatment is envisaged and we are just ahead of the second public hearing. We received written comments from 35 different entities, mostly from sports associations – from the chess sports union, fishing associations, hockey, tennis, badminton, mountain, basketball, if I only list some, these are written comments – and also from various associations. We also received a number of comments at the municipal level. In particular, they were engaged on behalf of the municipalities of the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and other entities such as sports stakeholders such as the Sport Foundation, the Association of Sporters of Slovenia, as well as the Association of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, clubs also engaged in sports activities, the Association of Sports Centres and other stakeholders, such as clinical institutes dealing with sport. Natural persons have also sent direct written suggestions. During this time, coordination meetings were organised mainly with the Association of municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. This is also the answer to your question, where there is the most direct interest at the local level, where it is precisely for the purpose of the civilian part of sport that a number of discussions should be held due to certain new areas and regulations relating to local communities; in particular implementation, both on the national side and on the other side of the annual sport programme, where municipalities or societies are most directly involved. And representatives of the field of sports recreation such as the OKS Association, the Association of Sports Unions, various other associations, including the Faculty, to the Ombudsman, because you know that the area of misconduct is also regulated, or especially the importance of young people in this area; and individuals who are also directly experts in this area, such as sports inspectors. We also organized meetings with former top athletes as representatives of those who most and most closely follow the development of the legislative area in sport; and with the Slovenian Sports Union. What was the purpose of that? The aim is to coordinate as many comments as possible, and the comments were very weighted. We have already discussed this complementary proposal on the Sport Council of the Republic of Slovenia in April, which was 14. 4. and to Interdepartmental Working Group 20. 4. We still have some coordination meetings in progress, both this and the following week, due to some areas of labour law, as already mentioned inspection parts and other issues at local level. On this basis, we will also re-examine the text of the new e-democracy law with all the comments made and coordinated and propose that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia consider the law as soon as possible. It is true that in one part of the discussion it may have stretched for about a month or two, even unforeseeablely, precisely to clear up some of the points at local levels. The second law, which we already have on e-Democracy and has already concluded public debate as well as the acquisition of substantive and other comments, is the Law on the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. This one goes into the process, he's already in the process, and he'll try to get to the government as soon as possible. It's already in coordination on different worlds. We have reopened the Ski Safety Act, which you have already mentioned since it has turned out that certain actors have failed to open up topics relevant to individual stakeholders within this area of the law with their comments on the right authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u284	Thank you. First of all, I would like to quote Mr Gabrovac, President of the Olympic Committee. "The last draft crumbling after they had withdrawn a bill from the drawers last February," we discussed. "Although this has already been adopted on the expert council and sent to interdepartmental coordination, they then decided to write a new one that we discussed at the last public debate. The new proposal has nothing to do with the National Sports Programme." And that's why the Olympic Committees are supposed to prepare their own bill. Then there are other sports officials calling: "I suggest that the Minister immediately form a new interdisciplinary working group, which by the end of June prepares a new draft law on sport with all arguments, analyses, assessments and assumptions." Dear Minister, don't get me wrong, but I don't know if there's one draft that's changing; was one draft written, and you put it in the drawer and pulled one of the others out?Oh, my God! The key question is: When can we expect a draft law? And we'll also allow ourselves the question: When can we also expect a law on doping about sport, which is also part of the Government's Normative Work Programme? And finally, one well-intentioned suggestion, and I'm going to come from football where we have a club president, a coach and players. First, a few players are replaced if they don't count in the club; then try to replace another player so that the result can be seen. If there are no results, usually the president of the club makes a second move, which is the replacement of the coach. Dear Minister, I think it's time you replaced some actor who's preparing the law, because apparently, as it is written here, almost no one in sports society is satisfied with the last draft law. And if once again there are financial consequences of this law that no one will get their cake, I think you'll have a problem if you don't make peace with your officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u286	First of all, thank you for this well-intentioned suggestion. It also explains that some of the statements that you quoted do not hold that they are recorded in the media. What is true is that we have been drinking law through the Professional Council; however, different actors in the country have different views on how to place the meaning, content and position of individual organisations within sport. The law follows a balance between the importance of the State and the local communities alongside the two key other pillars, namely the Sport and OKS Foundation. And here we want to maintain balance and a vision that the development policy of sport is directed by the competent ministry, together with all stakeholders. That is why they have also been involved in the debate through expert councils and a broader debate since the first moment. The coordinated draft on which it is discussed is the one who continues drinking, and we will drink it to the end. We also have meetings with key players again in these days because some of the themes are still open. However, we must also probably understand that different relationships with different views are also included in the association of sports associations and that their different views must also be taken into account. This may lead to a little more discussion and coordination, so it is right that the law is well coordinated, that it is well founded in substantive and developmental visions. Since 1998, we have been based on the old law on sport; the former law has long been coordinated, so now the law in force. It is right that this discussion is indeed open and follows the visions of the three pillars I have been talking about. That is why I believe in this new law; of course I also believe that everyone will be very clear and transparent in communicating how we have coordinated or prepared the law and which expert opinions have been communicated. We do know, however, that sport within itself has very different views in different areas and, above all, in finding solutions for these areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The last question today will be raised by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, I will ask one very short and also a simple question. To get to him, I'd like to take a quick walk after the events. I'm talking about the confession of Palestine, of course. On 28 November 2014, at the initiative of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left Committee on Foreign Policy adopted amended conclusions, but one of the most likely conclusions is that it requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to recognise Palestine and send this act to the National Assembly. You then stated on 7 January 2015 that elections were taking place in Israel at that time and that it would not be wise at that time or to make such a wise confession; so you referred to waiting for these elections. Then came my question a few weeks later at the PSC, where you pointed out that within a certain period of time – and then within a month, it was said somewhere by the end of February 2015 – material would be prepared by the Government and that this material would also come to the National Assembly, namely the Committee on Foreign Policy. At that time, nothing has happened since the Committee on Foreign Policy; however, on 29 May, in an article on this issue, a reference was made to the fact that a group of countries are looking for this issue and that the Government will – this was a message from the Government – discuss this issue at an appropriate time in the near future. This near future then moved a little further into a later period, and in June 2015, with the signatures of the then ZaAB and the support of the Social Democrats, we decided on the recognition of Palestine. Then this act was also actually included in the deadline for the work of the National Assembly, and at that time you also announced that Slovenia would make a recognition if this group of countries did not end in 2015. In September, the coalition at the College of the President of the National Assembly withdrew this act from the timetable. At that time, the government still argued that it would draw up this decision by the end of the year, but nothing has happened since then; except that at virtually every college we are trying to put this act on a timetable. The government kind of put itself in the work of the National Assembly, and this act kind of blocked. My question is: What are the real reasons why the government has not yet done so; and when will this happen?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Chairman. Even on my part all Members and Members of Parliament have a good greeting! I also thank you for the question of Member Vatovac. In fact, you correctly summarized the entire course of events. In November 2014, the National Assembly somehow agreed that, after examining all aspects and effects of the National Assembly, the Government should propose recognition of the independent and sovereign state of Palestine. Let me say once again very clearly that the Government supports the recognition of Palestine; but we want this recognition to have some positive effects, which means that such recognition should in particular improve the situation on the ground. In particular, recognition should also contribute to more peace in this area. You know that since 2003, the so-called Middle East Peace Process, which includes four, is called the United Nations, the European Union, the United States of America and the Russian Federation. Over and over, a lasting solution, which would in particular bring stability, is to be found within this Middle East peace process, which has stalled a little and should be reinvigorated. Why the Middle East Peace Process? Because this brings a lasting solution, lasting peace and should also bring co-existence, because the solution in the Middle East peace process is going in the direction of two countries. Resolution of the two countries in this disputed territory. In this context, we are also convinced that if this were to succeed in stopping violence, it would stop terrorism and, in particular, tensions that also have wider effects on the region itself. If we have at times talked only about the problem of Palestine and Israel, we know that there are still other very pressing issues in the region today, with very negative consequences for Slovenia as well – this uncontrolled migration wave that is happening, terrorist actions within the European Union. For this reason, we are convinced that the mere recognition of Palestine as an independent and sovereign state does not at this time bring any lasting solution. Therefore, you have also rightly stated that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union and the European Union, is participating in this Middle East peace process, seeking a solution supported by several countries. We know that, within the European Union, some other countries have not yet recognised Palestine. During that time, a so-called French initiative was also set up and it was supposed to be an attempt to revive the Middle East peace process in Paris in July. And because of this, I personally believe that this peace process should be given the opportunity to see what will happen in Paris; whether there is actually any chance that this Middle East peace process would actually come back to life, there would be some dynamic, some activity. That is why we believe that we should give this opportunity to see how this French initiative is to be adopted. I must say that France is also one of the countries that tends to recognise Palestine. However, as I say, in the conversations I had with the French side, they say they are trying to revive this process again, because it could actually bring a better, more lasting solution. I'm in the position to wait for July for this conference. At the same time, I would like to remind you that an invitation has also been made to come to Ljubljana, to this National Assembly and to the Committee for Foreign Policy of the Israeli Parliament. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Dr. Vatovec, are you requesting a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you. Somehow I assumed that the answer would go in the direction – the government supports, but as for the positive effects of improving the situation on the ground, the contribution to peace, the Middle East peace process stands, but I think there is some logical error here, by saying that we wait for the recognition that we can enable the peace process. [[…]] As you know, the National Assembly also established a Group of Friendships with Palestine, where we also hosted a Palestinian delegation. Their position, which we have heard many times, even in other cases, is very clear. It's not about the peace process as such. The recognition of Palestine by no State will contribute to the regulation of the situation on the ground, but can give the Palestinian authorities legitimacy and, above all, legitimacy in the peace process negotiations. I think that's what's important. And any country that will actually make a confession that will recognise Palestine will have one more stone to this legal legality; from purely negotiating points. As far as stopping violence is concerned, I think we could make a lot of contributions here by stopping trading elements of military technology with Israel. In particular, between 2004 and 2014, Slovenia exported around EUR 7 million to Israel, as well as some weapons to Israel, which was also used in one major attack on Palestinian settlements in Cast Lead and Protective Edge operations. If the two had stopped in some way, they could have also contributed to the cessation of violence. And my question is, and I'm really interested in the answer: What's going on with Knesset's visit to the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much for the additional question. First of all, I would like to say that in this process we also regularly respect the Foreign Policy Committee's decision on the support of Slovenia to Palestine when it comes to activities in international organisations. Let me say, for example, that on 10 September last year we supported the resolution that non-members of the United Nations also have their flag in front of the UN headquarters in New York. At that time, the general congregation was also running, so I attended the event. And that is in this spirit of the realization of this conclusion. I can also say that we supported the membership of Palestine in the so-called Permanent Arbitration Court in The Hague in March this year, and that we voted in favour of the resolution on occupied Palestine in April this year. These activities, activities are being carried out. And as far as recognition is concerned, I will repeat it again, but here we really need to take into account all aspects and also the current circumstances. With regard to the specific question, let me say that our Ambassador, Mrs Sušnik, was visiting the chairman of this Committee on Foreign Policy and Defence on 14 March this year, who first apologized for not responding to your invitation; and that he will make an effort to make this visit happen as soon as possible. Nevertheless, I think that it is crucial at this point whether France will succeed in this initiative in July, where this meeting will be held in Paris and where Slovenia is most likely to participate, with the relaunching of this peace process. Nevertheless, I am of the opinion that if this were to succeed and that there would be a more lasting solution here, it would make sense to wait. It's not a matter of weeks or months. I think it is more important that we capture the right moment when we could actually give the right impetus in terms of regulating the situation in this area. I would not like to have the impression that there is something behind the government that we do not want to continue this process. We want to use this recognition as our asset at a time when Palestine would benefit most. If Slovenia does this on its own tomorrow, I think it will only be a one-day note in the world media; perhaps not even in the world media. And I wouldn't want you to waste this way [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-16-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Then we're done. I thank the President of the Government and the Ministers and Ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 May, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I inform members and members of the Committee on Culture that the first meeting of the 13th Emergency Committee in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič starts in 10 minutes.
