ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Violeta Tomić by 16:00, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Simon Zajc, Mr Ivan Prelog, Dr Matthew T. Vatovec from 15.30 p.m. and Mr Jernej Vrtovac. I welcome everyone here. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. On Thursday, 28 January 2016, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended proposal were adopted in the second reading, the Act decided, on a proposal from the Government, as the proposer of the bill, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at this meeting, the Council should carry out a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making of the amendment tabled that you have received and published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! In Novi Slovenija, we are just taking a deep look at what the amendment to Article 15 would mean. All the greater rights for workers, I think everything has been possible by now. I am interested in giving them five additional workers or five representatives of the world’s workers – because I am the first to discuss, I also expect by the United Left the answer – whether this is a guarantee that workers will actually have a greater impact on society’s operations. Again, I must say that Nova Slovenija will vote against the law because the law does not take account of the Court of Auditors' basic comments, and this is to allow for state guarantees that do not have a business plan. We play with money, which is the money of all taxpayers in Slovenia. And at this time, it seems to me, in these difficult times, playing with fire, because in the end, citizens always bear the consequences. Much has already been said about state forests, how woodworking industries will establish what will be done, but nothing concrete. That is why I would like to hear some specific information when we have a third reading of this law today. To establish a forest-forest chain, which has already been established, we are going back to the same stories. I can't go past Sunday's report on the big producer, the processor of Rupar from the Idrian end, who warned about what it means to set up a company in this way for all those currently maintaining the woodworking industry in Slovenia. I wonder if we've all listened and looked at the same thing, whether there is any doubt in anyone and requires us to commit to these things somehow and to record how this company will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u3	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Government representatives, colleagues and fellow Members! The last time we discussed several articles and amendments, we confirmed three of them, and today the amendment came from the United Left again to increase the number of members in the Supervisory Council. I believe that the eight members that we have somehow confirmed are enough. And that now there would be more than one, as they state, that half of the workers in the world of society would be, of course, I do not agree with that, and not with the predecessor, who said that this was a costly issue. I'm going to reject this amendment myself. However, I will certainly support the law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which we will also confirm today, because I think it is time to establish the conditions for a break-in in the wood industry and finally establish the production of the forest and forest chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u5	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! Let me begin by answering Mr Škodnik and Mrs Dimic. Mr Škodnik, the most expensive in the case of businesses, such as the one established by law, is corruption, not labour democracy. Labour democracy, however, is just one of the levers to prevent corruption as much as possible from being accompanied by the stories we, unfortunately, have been following for the past 20 years. Mrs Dimic asks whether this is a guarantee that workers will have greater influence. Of course, by doing so, we will allow workers what the Law on the participation of workers in management also allows them, i.e. half the representatives in the supervisory council, half the power to decide what the composition of the board of directors should be and how to control the processes that are taking place in society. This means that exclusive governance rights with society will not be vested in the Government, that workers will not only be there for participation in some democratic debates in the supervisory world, but that they will actually have power and influence. And that's what we're trying to do with this amendment. As you know, all of you who have been following this debate have been critical in the United Left to this proposal throughout the whole discussion, but this thing that is before us today seems crucial to us is in fact our last attempt to make this company as transparent as possible, to make this company as possible in the public interest and as much in the interest of those who should try to help them are the right people working in the woods, people working in the Slovenian woodworking chain. Here again I call on the Government, and especially the Social Democrats, given that the law comes from a department headed by you by the Minister, that in the spirit of economic democracy, to which you are ultimately committed both programmely and in the coalition treaty, you support this amendment and show that this promise will not only remain on paper, but that you are able and that you have the will to translate it into concrete political measures, that is, with the support of the amendment for economic democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u7	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy! Once again, I am pleased that the economic theme again on the agenda is that we will start to discuss in Parliament the added value of the economy and the topics that enable the development and growth of our society. First, I would touch the amendment tabled by the United Left. I think that in the democratic decision-making process, some amendments to the United Left have also been taken into account, so that we cannot say that the law has been unilaterally prepared, it has also been amended, but it may have been somewhat replicated by a colleague of Luke Mesca, and I might point out that we have fully complied with the Law on Economic Companies in the drafting of the law. In addition to my assessment that workers in a satisfactory number are included in the supervisory board, we have also prepared an expert council in which workers are also represented. Of course, even under the Company Act, it is possible to form a world of workers using a business model, and colleague Dimic did not hear about it when I also said that she was ready. We have foreseen that this company, the so-called large company, will be able to achieve a realisation of EUR 100 million in the final perspective, as well as a larger number of workers, but, of course, it is possible to form a working world where there is again some kind of co-ordination and integration of workers into this economic society. From this point of view, I will not support this amendment because I believe that the existing legal solution offers sufficient participation of workers in this company. Perhaps he would also touch on the comment of colleague Dimic, who in fact asked again how business model is with the business plan. For the last time in the debate, I said that the National Assembly was not in control of the management of an economic society, that, in fact, the so-called corporate governance law would take over this function by the Supervisory Board and the administration, which would fully draw up a business plan in accordance with the law. More recently, I have already commented that a business model has been prepared for the Government and the Ministers, which has set out the basic guidelines for this company, which can be the basis for the company's management business plan, which will then be approved by the Supervisory Board. I look forward to the adoption of this law. Last time I called all the parties, I think. that this is a transnational project and an opportunity to connect all the parties to Slovenia, but we support this law, because I think that this natural resource – the forest will also be enriched with jobs and, in fact, make up for the loss of economic damage. In the last 20 years, there have been 8.8 billion euros of negative economic effects. So I invite everyone once again to support this law and to place again on the agenda of the National Assembly and committees such laws as will enable the development of Slovenia for the well-being of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u9	Since it's still an interest in the debate, I'm opening a list, please sign in. Three of them have been reported. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with the team! Just to answer my colleagues from the United Left, who are calling on us Social Democrats to respect economic democracy. When we talk about economic democracy, it's nice to see a factory inside, to know how it works. Secondly, even in economic democracy, the principle is to know who owns it. And the owner must, in fact, have the main word. The main owner of this company will be the state. And, Your Honor, it is the country that must play a decisive role, and this country also represents the public interest. It is not true that what you have said is that we do not comply with this law, that we have given workers the minimum opportunity to represent the interests of workers. That's not true. If that were true, then there would be significantly fewer workers in the supervisory world, and there are more than one third of workers. And here's something else I just want to remind you of very plastic, because I think that's true. You remember well about a year and a half ago how they were in another state-owned company – and we were all wondering how that could be – set up the director by workers with certain people. Luca Koper. Remember how the story then came about, how the state didn't have the power to influence who the CEO would be in a company like Luka Koper. Gaspar Mišič became director with the help of workers. Was that right at the time?Oh, my God! The workers have three representatives in this new company, one has the opposition, and believe that the opposition will give my notions of a quality and good supervisor who will be able to influence decisions and four have a state. After that it will be four: four and then the President of the Supervisory Board. As far as the Social Democrats are concerned, we have done our utmost and also good for workers and good for the country. Therefore, unfortunately, this amendment of the United Left cannot be supported by the bad practices we have learned in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u11	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, Mr. Minister with the team. I repeat the position of New Slovenia. Of course, I cannot support this amendment by my fellow Members of the United Left. But we understand labour democracy and economic democracy in a socio-market economy model slightly differently and we understand corporate governance slightly differently. The National Assembly has a task, perhaps especially the opposition, to point out possible irregularities that will take place under this law. Above all, I am thinking here of a state-owned company that is being set up again. Here again, I draw attention to the problem of state aid in determining EUR 20 million of capital and guarantees. I repeat, no serious business plan. And this company is going to have to do business tomorrow. July 1st is very fast here. And I hope they will have to be very good experts who will make a very good business plan, which will be a basis for the guarantee law, so at least I understand that the government will soon come to the National Assembly with the guarantee law. I have already warned on the Committee and I really miss the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, especially the State Aid Sector. The State aid sector operating within the Ministry of Finance did not give an opinion on State aid. But if I did, I'm sure it would be repulsive. And here I fear, colleagues and colleagues, that there will be the same mistake that happened with Elan. There's still news about Elan, and it looks like we're not learning anything, which we're repeating some mistakes. The second question is yield. Of course, if not others, the opposition will be in a year, not in a year, after the end of this calendar year, we will ask whether there were eight and a half million returns in this state company Slovenian Forests, d.o.o., in 2016. Thank God he will. Even better if there's more. And then in the coming years, this return has to double because the company will operate throughout the calendar year. There is also a problem with the methodology for assessing this return. The last time, I think, my colleague Verbič, SMC, had had a very good discussion when he said that the current arrangement through concession contracts was practically also such that the Government actually supervised concessionaires. But how did she control it? Seems bad. Although I did not see these concession contracts, I suppose it was not a party to the government's concession contract, I don't know, but the government was at the end of this pyramid, so today it is still in the current regime and, of course, the same government that will manage the Slovenian state forests will be the same. Some international comparisons are welcome here, but in fact such arrangements as we have, or as you vote today – New Slovenia will, of course, be against this law – there is no such arrangement in fact. Unfortunately, however, Slovenia has a specific country where we have some background, some networks that are preying on this state's spoils. Open your eyes and take a look and ask yourself why the Badger is leaving the Bear. Yeah, probably because Medja says he's writing criminal charges against Jazbec. That's how these things work in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u13	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much again. My colleague Horvat has already taken it that I have already touched on the report of the Ministry of Finance at the public hearing, or at that time the minister said I had an old opinion. I expected to get a new opinion on the issue of State guarantees in the Slovenian Forest project, d. o. o., or whatever it will be called. The fact is that the Ministry of Finance, the State aid sector, did not give its opinion. I think we can still ask Members to do so. Even if, as I see today, the law will be passed, we will not leave the matter because, as I have said, we are playing with the money of citizens and citizens. I'm not going to mention what happened when this happened to Elan, and I'm not going to tell you what follows from the Ormož Sugar Factory, and I think you're all well aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u15	I see there's still interest in the debate. Please sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! I'm interested in listening to this debate. My colleague's done. We're playing with money. We have proposed a solution to somehow play a little less with money. That those who make this money should also be adequately involved in oversight. Mr. Škodnik, SMC's supporter, said on the subject, that the employees in the control world are making a big deal out of it. But the fact that we have four on the government's side doesn't irritate her. Why do we have four? Because we have a feudalization of the sources and because you can't make a deal. After all, the Supervisory Board could have five people, and if you wanted three workers, one from the government, one from the opposition, it would be great. But of course not. One other thing, the leader of the parliamentary group here almost somehow, the main one is the country, like he's a country. Let us, after all, ask ourselves who the country is. It's beautifully written there in the introduction to the Constitution. In all, there is a lot of duality here, as I said before, concessions have been 20 years, I don't know what you've all been doing for the last ten years, I don't know why the business plan isn't yet. Since 2004, we know who's changed everything in power, but apparently you've been asleep, and obviously we're solving one last-minute thing again, because it probably fits the numbers. Once again, it is not as unique as the Lord of New Slovenia says, such a form, such an organization, to avoid how empty and eloquent this debate is. Mr Ranc made this very clear what would happen if it did, if it did so. In short, some sort of a sea of excuses. I would not now repeat what was in the pre-election promises, what was in the programmes, how we understand economic democracy, but the obvious fact is that, apart from the United Left, everyone here is somehow afraid of workers. Despite the modern machinery that I hope this company will have and can use, you will still need workers to work and operate there. Some excuse for the professional world seems like some sort of hypocrisy to me again. The professional council has another function than the supervisory board. After what you've been learning and what you've learned, Mr Han, in the past around state-owned enterprises, it would have been a time for us to work in some way, such as in Scandinavia, if I put it that way, because they also have a lot of forests. Of course, I will support this amendment of ours, which, as it turns out, will not go through. According to the arithmetic of power in Parliament, the United Left has done everything in its power, we have tabled amendments, some you have accepted, for which we thank you. But I'm afraid that this basic good idea will eventually come to life as a semi-manufacturer. But the whole story of the woodworking chain will require a little more serious debate in order to bring this to life. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u17	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 15. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 57. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Franc Jurša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u18	President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues, as well as you, colleagues and colleagues! At the previous hearing, I pointed out that this was one of the toughest nuts the coalition had to hit. I also have to admit that things didn't go smoothly and easily, and it got complicated several times. In doing so, I would like to say that this is a very important law, because it is a matter of actually managing our state forests. The main and basic problem was who was supposed to be watching the work of this new company. On the one hand, there was a proposal by the Government, on the other hand, that SDH should do so. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we had an alternative proposal, which is not in the debate at the moment and I would not like to talk about it. I must also admit that there was quite a lot of fear that concessionaires would lose their jobs in Slovenian state forests. The concessionaires of this work will not lose, the work will continue to be sufficient and it will be possible to make a little more effort to obtain this work. Our key issue is related to Snow White. We said that we want Snow White to join this new society and that Snow White workers in this new society are also employed. We have also succeeded in this proposal. In our Group of Members, we have no fear that this company will not come to life normally. We had a different solution with regard to our contributions, which was not adopted, and we also had a slightly different proposal with regard to the guarantee. But at the end of the day, we are satisfied in our Group of Members with this solution, which is before us today, so we will also vote for it and adopt a proposal for a law. You know, the nut has its own core, if you process this core well, you can also sell it in a much more high-quality way. The same applies to Slovenian forests or Slovenian wood.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u19	Mr Tomaž Lisec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you, President, for your word. We will not support the law in the SDS Group because we have opposed it from the beginning. The fact is that this government has quite a few open issues, some of which are being concluded in this mandate. But a bigger problem than ending old stories is opening new stories. We continue our poor practice in the area of chimneys. However, if we could improve this practice, the minister will come up with a new solution that will have bad effects already in marriage, and even more so in the SDS Group, we are afraid of what the real or real effects will be in practice. In the SDS Group, we believe it will be with 1. Seven. 2016 the operation or management of state forests has stalled, as the government is suddenly – despite the fact that the coalition contract states otherwise – cancels all existing stakeholders and establishes a new form, a new form called the state forest. At the same time, when we adopt the law today, we do not have a few key answers: who will be the head of this company, whether it will be the SMC or France from SD. We don't know what the business plan's gonna look like. We don't even know what this company's business plan will be. We don't even know what this company's strategy will be and so on. All of this is supposed to be silenced in the debate. Perhaps a member of the coalition knows what the story will be and who will be the director of this company, but we have not received answers to our key questions. More. We don't know anything, but we're going to make a guarantee of 20 million euros. I believe that even one day some European Commission conclusion will come, that it is an unlawful state aid or some of the basics, because some of them are going to go among themselves, who will have a greater profit from the state forests, while the taxpayers will be the ones who invest in this company. And this, in our view, is an unacceptable fact in the Group of Members. Even more sad is the apparent disagreement between the two coalition parties, and we fear that the law has even less chance of living in practice. To conclude, it says here: "Indemnity contracts with creditors are concluded by the Minister responsible for finance." But we all know what kind of finance minister we have. So we know that the story will be bad and sad for Slovenian forests. That's why we won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u21	Any other explanation for the voice? An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. In New Slovenia, we have been stressing all the time that we will not give support or vote against this law. Why? Last but not least, all the efforts of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and their representatives as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Wood and Furniture Industry, those key factors in the Slovenian economy that currently maintain the wood processing industry, easy for their amendments, for their problems, for their concerns about forests, were not heard. It therefore seems to me, as they point out, that the state will create unfair competition for all those currently active in the forest processing industry and thus create even greater inequalities between economic operators, business operators. It is simple, as I have already said, and as I have already told Prime Minister Cerar on the question of parliament last autumn to form an enterprise of two political parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u23	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If the law is adopted today, we will take a decision, which is certainly one of the most demanding in this mandate. This is the fact that the adoption of the law will end the management and management of state forests within the framework of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was established by law in 1993. In addition to forest management, this fund also had the task of paying and returning land to denationalising beneficiaries. After some good 20 years, this function has reached the final stage, where it will be necessary to think about how to manage more effectively the natural wealth represented by the forest. The purpose of this company is to specialize, if I may say so, in this particular area and to try to re-establish a relationship that was somehow present in the history of the management of the Slovenian forest and, last but not least, a very developed woodworking industry. That's a big challenge. This law can be a good extension to once again achieve this important objective in the management of the national wealth represented by the forest. I hope that despite the extremely short time the government will have at its disposal to carry out all the procedures to make the company live, for 1. 7. concessions expire, take advantage of this time and train the company to really start doing its work effectively. This is therefore an extremely radical change and, last but not least, the procedure itself in the National Assembly has shown that all the parliamentary groups have been very involved in drafting the final text of the law, which is now also the subject of the vote. The result of proposals from both the opposition and the coalition can also be one of those guarantors, which may sometimes be difficult to reach in Slovenia to achieve the most effective and coordinated solution. This law to a large extent calls for follow-up and we will vote in favour of this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u25	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Mrs Marinka Levičar has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Welcome to you, Mr. Minister, with your colleagues and all your colleagues! It seems to me that this law is much better now at third reading than it was at first reading. We have all made efforts to do so, so the coalition parties and also the opposition have contributed their views and amendments and so on. As my group leader has already said, I think that this law should be adopted and I will support it. However, I would like to say the following in this regard. Regardless of the fact that the law is good and that it is a good basis for implementation, it is important what kind of people will implement it. I hope that the right people will come both to the leadership of this company and to the supervisory council. If that's not the case, then there might be something wrong with this marriage. However, I hope that this will not be the case, because the law is so designed that it is a fairly broad supervisory committee and that the government, as a congregation, will carry out its mission. In this regard, I would also like to say that, at the meeting of the parent body, I proposed that the company be established in Kočev. This has not happened, but I think there is nothing lost yet, and I hope that those responsible who will decide where the seat will be will also be able to listen to the arguments that Kočevje has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-02-02-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u27	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item as well as the 15th meeting of the National Assembly.
